

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
w;s úfYI
wxl 2307$10 - 2022 fkdjeïn¾ ui 21 jeks i÷od - 2022'11'21
No. 2307/10 - moNdAy ,  November  21,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 6057 — 07 (11/2022)
Provincial  Council  Notifications
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  bY LAwS Of  wESTERN PROVINCE  
Notification under Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of the Western Province, in terms of the powers vested in me under Section 154 of 
the Urban Council ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 2 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions)  
Act, No. 12 of 1989 do hereby notify that my approval has been given for the by-laws, described in the Schedule herein  
made by the Horana Urban Council in terms of the Section 153 of the Urban Council ordinance (Chapter 255) read with 
Section 157 of the aforesaid ordinance.
 
Roshan Goonetileke, 
 rWP and bAr vSv USP PHd FIm 
 (Sri Lanka) ndc psc, 
 marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force,
 The Governor,
 Western Province.
on 16th day of November, 2022,s
At Governor's Office - Western Province,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
2A
1. The objective of the enforcement of this by law is to regulate the use and maintenance of 
Public Latrine System in this Horana Urban Council authority area.
2. This by Law is cited as the by Law for regulating the use and maintenance of Public Latrines 
within the authority area of Horana  Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said 
ordinance.
4. It shall be the responsibility of the Sabha to maintain Public Latrine facilities in the places 
where general public gather, within the authority area of Horana Urban Council (hereinafter 
refers as authority area). 
5. All Public Latrine facilities within authority area of Urban Council shall be maintained with 
clean and tidy adequately under the sanitary requirement and shall be well maintained.
6. Separate facilities for men, women and for persons with disabilities should be maintained in 
each public Latrine maintained by the Sabha. 
7. All public Latrines within the authority area of Urban Council shall be maintained in 
accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health to be maintained 
for the benefit of the public health.
8. Adequate water supply should be maintained permanently for all public Latrines and water 
storage facilities shall also be provided for this purpose. 
9. All public Latrines shall be easily accessible to both men and women as well as persons with 
disabilities. 
10. each Latrine should have facilities such as hand washing with proper, permanent water 
connection in a designated area with a basin made of stainless steel and should always have 
facilities with the adequate sanitary wipers, detergent and hand drying facilities also be 
provided.
11. each public Latrine should have separate cloth racks in each compartment and should also 
be provided with space to keep the belongings.
12. Adequate number of foot operated dust bins should be kept in each compartment of every 
public Latrine for the public use.  
Schedules 
bY -LAw  USE  AND  MAINTENANCE  Of  PUbLIC  LATRINES
Short Title.
The Sabah should 
maintain public 
Latrine facilities.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
13. If there are any masks or gloves worn by the users of the public Latrine, the masks or gloves 
should be disposed in to the foot operated dust bins. This specifically stated on the dust bins.
14 The surface of all the public Latrine should be made of cement or porcelain so that the water 
does not retain and slip easily and the floor should be prepared so that water can drain easily. 
15 (01)
(02)  
Instructions on specific sanitary measures to be followed by the public Latrine users for 
protection of public health to be displayed in the public Latrine premises for easy understanding.  
 All persons who use public Latrines shall act in accordance with the relevant instructions. 
16. A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanitary condition and germicide should 
be used when cleaning and shall be well maintained and staff should be deployed to ensure 
the cleanliness.    
 
17. Adequate lighting should be provided in all public Latrines.
 
18. If the Sabah decides to charge a fee for the services provided in public Latrines within the 
authority area, a notice shall be prepared and affixed in all three languages clearly with regard 
to the available facilities and the fees charged.  
19. When using public Latrines, the accumulated waste should be disposed in accordance with 
the specific procedure and the disposal of masks and gloves used should be considered as 
medical waste and disposed accordingly.
 
20. The utensils used in public Latrines should be cleaned with water after every use and then 
keep them ready for the easy use of others.
 
21. If a public Latrine is maintained by a second party on behalf of the Sabha, the provisions 
of this by-law shall applicable to all public Latrine so maintained by the second party. 
The compliance of provisions of this by-law shall be monitored regularly by the assigned 
employees, appointed for this purpose.
22. In addition to the provisions of this by-Law, the users of public Latrine shall also abide by 
provisions of the  Quarantine  and  Prevention of diseases ordinance , when prescribed or 
applied to any epidemic situation 
23. It shall be lawful to restrict the use of any public Latrine within the authority are for the benefit 
of public health for a specified period of time, to restrict its use, or to suspend it temporarily 
by the Chairman as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.  
24. Taking into the consideration of the factors that may cause or spread of any epidemic disease 
within the authority area declared by the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance, the 
Chairman shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of public Latrine is accordance 
with the instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health prior to the use Latrine by the 
public. 
Charge a fee.
obtaining the 
assistance of a 
second party.
Use of public 
Latrines during 
an epidemic 
situation.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
4A
25. Prior to the use of public Latrine in connection with the steps under section 24 above, the 
Chairman shall display the instructions in a manner that is easily visible to the user of the 
public Latrine in accordance with instructions of the Medical Officer of Health.  
26. All public Latrines should be cleaned with antiseptic according to a specific daily schedule in 
a manner that no odor is emitted, while such cleaning activities shall be recorded in a report 
kept in the premises. The Chairman shall implement an appropriate program to regulate the 
continuity of the clean-up operations. 
27. No matter whatever stated in the above clauses of this by-law, there shall not be any 
impediment by any provision of this by-law to the implementation of the provisions of the 
Quarantine and Prevention of disease ordinance or any regulation obtained thereon. 
28. If a Public Latrine is maintained on behalf of the Council under the administration of a second 
party, the provisions of this by-law shall apply to all public Latrines so maintained and shall 
always be deemed to have been applicable. 
29. If a fee is charged for the use of a public Latrine, a receipt shall be issued to the user for the 
specific amount so charged.
 
30. It is an offense for any person who act in violation of a provision of this by-law and after being 
convicted by an authorized court, the person shall be liable to a penalty under Sub-Section 
153 (2) of the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
31. For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the context otherwise requires,
“Sabha” means the Horana Urban Council
“Chairman” means Chairman of the Horana Urban Council or the person executes the duties 
of the chairman. 
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person holding the post of the Medical Officer of 
Health in the relevant area of the Urban Council area.
 
32. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this By-law, the 
Sinhala texts will prevail.
Penalty.
Definition.
discrepancy 
among the 
medium.

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
1. This by-Law is enacted for the control and management of public health care facilities in
the  Horana Urban Council area.
2. This by-law is cited the by-law on the control and management of public health care facilities
in the Horana Urban Council Area.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section
153 of Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the
said ordinance.
4. Public health care facilities implemented in the Horana Urban Council area (hereinafter
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain it in an appropriate manner.
The Chairman shall, in consultation with the Medical Officer of Health, take such action.
5. The Medical Officer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authority area shall
be treated as officers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing the public
health facilities operated by the Sbaha.
6. The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions conferred on him under any
written law in the control and management of public health facilities in the Authority area
to the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions
of the relevant written law.
7. 1.
 The management of public health care facilities related to the following services operated
by the Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under the supervision of the 
Medical Officer of Health.
1.
Waste management activities in the area
2. m aternal and Child Health Clinics
3. Public toilets and latrines
4. Public market Services
5. m aintaining slaughter houses
8. In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic affecting the Quarantine and Prevention of
diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it, or any other regulation applicable under 
that ordinance, shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations regarding the maintenance 
of services shall be made by the Chairman in accordance with the recommendations of the
Medical Officer of Health.
9. A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the
proper maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the Sabha and a monthly
report on the activities related to the management of the public health facilities relevant to
the public health in the area with respect to the previous month shall be submitted by the
the Medical Officer of Health to the Sabha every month.
In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic affecting the Quarantine and Pre-
vention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it, or any other 
regulation applicable under thatordinance, shall be maintained by the Sabha. All
regulations regarding the maintenance of services shall be made by the Chair-
man in accordance with the recommendations of the Medical Officer of Health.
A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next
month in the proper maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by 
the Sabha and a monthly report on the activities related to the management of 
the public health facilities relevant to the public health in the area with respect 
to the previous month shall be submitted by the the Medical Officer of Health 
to the Sabha every month.
The recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health shall be submitted to the 
Sabha in respect of every measure applicable to the control and management of 
the relevant health care facilities in the authority exercise of the Sabha within 
the authority area of the Public Health Authority conferred by the written law.
Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious 
disease within the authority area or in case of a disease situation connected 
under the Quarantine or Prevention of diseases ordinance and the orders made 
under it, steps shall be taken by the Chairman in consultation with the medical 
Officer of Health.
In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering 
person to duly provide such prescribed information to the prescribed persons 
within the prescribed time.
Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread of an epidemic or any 
contagious disease within the authority area applicable to the regulations made 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance. It is lawful for a 
Medical Officer of Health to direct any person to provide data to himself or to 
an authorized authority.
If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accordance with an order 
under Section 12 above, does not act in accordance with Section 13 above and 
after being convicted by a magistrate Court under sub-section Sub-Section 153 
(2) of the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255 shall be subjected to a penalty.
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   PUbLIC  HEALTH  CARE  fACILITIES
Short Title.
The medical 
Officer of Health 
and the Public 
Health Inspectors 
shall be treated 
as officers of the 
Sabha.
delegate 
of powers.
Under the 
supervision of the 
Medical Officer 
of Health.
making 
regulations.
monthly report.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
6A
10. The recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in 
respect of every measure applicable to the control and management of the relevant health 
care facilities in the authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority area of the Public 
Health Authority conferred by the written law.
11. Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease 
within the authority area or in case of a disease situation connected under the Quarantine or 
Prevention of diseases ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall be taken by the 
Chairman in consultation with the Medical Officer of Health.
12. In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person to duly 
provide such prescribed information to the prescribed persons within the prescribed time.
13. Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread of an epidemic or any contagious 
disease within the authority area applicable to the regulations made under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Officer of Health to direct 
any person to provide data to himself or to an authorized authority.
14. If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accordance with an order under Section 
12 above, does not act in accordance with Section 13 above and after being convicted by a 
magistrate Court under sub-section Sub-Section 153 (2) of the Urban Council ordinance, 
Chapter 255 shall be subjected to a penalty.
15. It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrangement under the Head Office of 
the Sabha and all sub-offices for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegated 
under this by-Law.
16. Unless other meanings are required in relation to the terms of this by-law, this by-law
“Sabha” refers  the Horana Urban Council.
“Chairman” refers those who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban Council 
at present or perform the duties of that office,
"Medical Officer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the Urban Council area.
"Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the office of the Urban Council or Medical Officer of Health attached to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
"Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, the managing director or manager 
of the organization or any person acting on behalf of that organization,
17. If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this By-law, the 
Sinhala text will prevail.
obtaining details.
Penalty.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw
MAINTAINING   bATHING   PLACES 
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate and control public bathing places maintained within the 
authority area of the Horana Urban Council.
 
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law relating to the bathing places within the Horana Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. A bathing area, a well or a pool of water belonging to a river, stream or canal which exists or is 
maintained as a public bathing place for public bathing within the territory of the Urban Council 
(hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be applicable for the purposes under this by-law.
5. When it comes to a public bathing area belonging to a river, stream or canal located within the 
authority area, with respect to each of those public bathing areas,
(1) The place shall be maintained under a notice board with the words declaring it a public 
bathing place.
(2) Notices shall be displayed about the area that can be used safely as a bathing place and 
the safety precautions to be taken in a way that makes it easy for the public to use the 
bathing area.
(3) Stairs shall be made with cement and it shall not be slippery in such a way to allow safe 
access to water for bathing.
(4) Whenever possible women and men shall have separate access to the water.
(5) maintaining the bathing area shall not endanger any tree in the river, stream, canal or 
lake reserve where the bathing area is located.
(6) Normally the bathing area shall be used from 06.00 a.m to 07.00 p.m and the bating 
area could be used at night only if adequate electric lighting is provided at the location.
(7) Separate places to change clothes shall be set up for men and women.
(8) Usage of alcohol shall be prohibited in any form around the bathing area and notices 
shall be prominently displayed in that regard.
6. The Urban Council may provide and maintain additional services and facilities for the users of 
the bathing place, and it shall be lawful to charge a fee as decided and published by the Urban 
Council for such services and facilities.
Short name.
maintaining a 
public bathing 
place.
Setting a fee.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
8A
7. When there is a public bathing well or pool located within the authority area, with respect to 
each of those public bathing well or pool,
(1) The place should be maintained under a notice board with the words declaring it a 
public bathing place.
(2) Around the well or pool shall have a protective wall of the height of at least 0.6096 
metres above ground level and at least to a similar depth below ground level the well 
or pool should be permanently build securely with cement or granite.
(3) Whenever possible, the public bathing place shall be maintained so that it can be used 
separately for men and women, and separate places for women and men to change 
clothes shall be maintained.
(4) drainage should be arranged in such a way that the water used for bathing is easily 
prevented from leaking into the bathing well or pool and drains easily out of it.
(5) buckets and ropes shall be there as needed to use the water for bathing, and the buckets 
shall be painted to prevent rust.
8. It is lawful to appoint committees by the Chairman consisting of representatives of the residents 
in the vicinity of every public bathing place to advise the Chairman in such matters to assist 
in the action taken by the Urban Council to maintain the public bathing places in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5 and 7 above. 
9. (1) The function of a committee appointed under section 8 above shall be as follows :
(A) If there are instances where it is observed that the users of the public bathing places 
do not comply with the provisions of this by-law, they shall report thereon to the 
Chairman.
(B) To inquire into the requirements of the relevant place for the benefit of the public 
and to advise and report to the Chairman.
(C) To perform relevant functions with the participation of labor in cases where there is 
a need to clean the bathing pool and well for the benefit of public health.
(D) To take all possible steps to protect the water sources and the surrounding flora and 
fauna, and to advise the Chairman in this regard.
(2) Committees appointed for the purpose under sub-section (i) shall gather from time to 
time and shall inform the Chairman of the decisions to be taken.
10. It is the duty of the Urban Council to take all possible steps to maintain the proper public baths 
located within the authority area.
When it comes to 
a public bathing 
well or pool.
Appointment of 
committees.
The function of a 
committee.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
11. (1) It is lawful to prohibit the use of any public bathing place for a specified period of time 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in the event of any 
epidemic situation under the Quarantine and Prevention of disease ordinance or any 
of the regulations made under it, applicable to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka. 
(2) Such an order shall be prominently displayed in a public bathing place.
12. No person shall bath or use the public bathing place for any other purpose when the 
Chairman has prohibited using a public bathing place under the section 11 of this by-
law during the period of such prohibition.
13. (1) In case of any epidemic of any infectious or transmissible disease in the area, the 
Chairman shall issue instructions on the procedure to be followed by a person taking 
a bath in or using a public bathing place in accordance with the instructions given by 
the Medical Officer of Health.
(2) All provisions under sub-section (1) above shall be prominently displayed in the public 
bathing place and all persons using the public bathing place shall obey the rules.
14. Anyone who suffers from an epidemic or spends a quarantine period after an epidemic or on 
quarantine period on suspicion of such an illness should not use a public bath.
15. In a public bathing place,
(A) Disposal of the waste generated shall be as specified by the Chairman and no 
waste shall be released into the external environment.
(B) A garbage bin shall be specifically reserved and maintained in the place to 
dispose things such as face masks or gloves worn by any person and shall be 
disposed only to the garbage bin.
(C) The waste collected shall be disposed according to the waste management 
program implemented by the Urban Council.
16. Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from a public bathing place in any instance.
17. No person shall urinate or defecate in the vicinity of a public bathing place unless there are toilets 
and latrines provided by the Urban Council in an area designated as a public bathing place.
18. Shall not wash vehicles, machineries or agrochemical spraying machines in a place that is 
maintained as a public bathing place.
Prohibition of use 
when an epidemic 
is declared.
Publication of 
regulations relating 
to an epidemic 
situation.
disposal of waste.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
10A
19. No person shall bathe, wash or enter any animal in or near any place designated as a public 
bathing place.
20. No person shall roam, walk around a public bathing place without any purpose.
21. The public bathing place shall be regularly inspected by an officer authorized by the Chairman 
to ensure that it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-Law.
22. It is an offense to maintain a pubic bathing place against the provisions of this by-law or violate 
the provisions of this by-law and after being found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction 
shall be subject to a fine under Sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
23. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law;
“Urban Council” means Horana Urban Council too;
"Chairman" means the person who holds the office of Chairman of the Horana Urban Council 
for the time or the person who perform the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person holds the office of that position for the Division 
of Medical Officer of Health in the Horana  local authority at the time;
"Authorized Officer" means an officer authorized by the then Chairman in writing.
24. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
That bathing and 
entering animals 
is prohibited.
Quality.
Definition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   TERMS   AND   CONDITIONS   Of   MARKET   SUPERVISORS   AND
OTHER   EMPLOYEES
1. This by-Law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Conditions for the proper performance 
of the duties of the Supervisors and other employees appointed for the market owned by  
Horana Urban Council
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law to specify the work of the market Supervisors and other 
employees of  Horana Urban Council
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. For every market belong to the Horana Urban Council, there should be a post in the name 
of the market supervisor and a suitable person should be appointed to the post. Appropriate 
appointments should be made by the authority.
Short Title.
Appointment.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
5. The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 as well as the 
provisions of Section 36 of the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255 as appropriate, shall 
be applicable with regard to appointments to the post of market Supervisor.
6. In order to carry out the duties of the market Supervisor in a proper and appropriate manner, 
the necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha and established in accordance 
with the relevant procedures.
7. The market Supervisor shall carry out the following functions either by himself or his associates 
within the Public market Premises (hereinafter referred to as the Premises)
(1) registration and maintenance of all traders in the premises.
(2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning that operates within the premises.
(3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is necessary to keep a close eye on the 
conduct of the trade under the respective premises in accordance with the terms of the 
relevant agreement.
(4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises and to ensure that the latrines 
are maintained in accordance with the by-laws regarding public latrines and to direct 
the staff in this regard.
(5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the premises is disposed in accordance 
with the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council.
(6) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the premises is disposed in accordance 
with the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council.
(7) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respective pits or suction ditches so 
that water does not escape out of the drains.
(8) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the by-laws of the Urban Council 
regarding the public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the 
premises.
(9) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market premises in a timely manner.
(10) ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal activities take place in the premises.
(11) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises.
(12) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot within the premises and direct 
the proper use of the entrances and exits.
(13) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the 
premises and supervise accordingly.
(14) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized use of the premises.
(15) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animals such as dogs and cats on 
the premises.
(16) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Urban Council from the traders 
engage in trade in the premises.
Supporting posts 
creation. 
Functions of 
market 
Supervisor.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
12A
8. The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task to the assistants to carry out the work 
assigned to him under Article 7 of this by-law and he shall ensure that the work so assigned 
is carried out in a proper and appropriate manner.
9. Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or territory of Sri Lanka or when 
there is a suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the market Supervisor 
to ensure that all steps are taken to implement the following or any other instruction given 
by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health regarding the premises.
(1) make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in various places on the 
premises is safe and in constant use for the users of the premises.
(2) ensure that the conditions connected with the use of public latrines in the premises are 
properly observed and the relevant health instructions are followed.
(3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried out in accordance with the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
(4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordance with the instructions given 
to the users of the premises to maintain the social distance.
(5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles 
into the premises.
(6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be displayed in the premises 
through advertisements and other advertising methods.
(7) The disposal of the waste of used masks, gloves, etc. in the premises are to be considered 
as clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste. 
(8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activities in the premises for the sake 
of public health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises. 
(9) Each stall in the premises has a specific person appointed in connection with the cash 
transactions.
(10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Officer of 
Health or the Public Health Inspector for the benefit of the public health shall be duly 
executed within the premises.
10. It is the responsibility of the market Supervisor to carry out the duties assigned to him and 
make other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly by this by-law.
11. The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day-to-day activities of the employees 
in the premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the premises for visitors' notes 
for follow-up.
12. It is the responsibility and duty of the market Supervisor to ensure that all activities are carried 
out in accordance with the written directives related to the public market and its activities 
by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, and that the instructions given after such 
supervision are properly implemented.
Follow the 
instruction during 
the outbreak of an 
epidemic.
Keeping records. 
Supervision.

<!-- page 13 -->

13A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
13. The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the general administration of the 
Chairman and Secretary of the Sabha.
14. Unless a different meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by-law, this by-law,
 “Council ” means Horana Urban Council,
 "Chairman" means Horana the current Chairman of the Urban Council or those   
  who hold the office of the Chairman, 
"Medical Officer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the Urban Council area,“Public Health Inspector” 
means a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached to the office 
of the Urban Council or Medical Officer of Health working in the authority area of 
the Urban Council.
15. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts in this  
By-law, Sinhala text will prevail.
 
Definition.
Inconsistencies 
between texts
Act under 
the general 
administration of 
the Chairman and 
Secretary of the 
Sabha.
bY-LAw
REGULARIZING   SANITARY   STANDARDS   fOR 
PRIV ATE   MARKETS   AND   fAIRS
1. This by-law is enacted to set standards to be followed regarding the sanitary requirements for 
private markets or fairs within the authority area of the  Horana Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law on the setting of Sanitary Standards for Fairs of the Horana 
Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
153 of Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-section 157(11) of the said 
ordinance.
4. The extent of the land (hereinafter referred to as the premises) on which each market, including 
a public market and a private market (hereinafter referred to as market), which is located within 
the jurisdiction of the Horana Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the authority area) 
shall be specified, and it shall be a premises maintained and prepared under a name board for 
the same purpose.
5. All markets located within the authority area shall be maintained in accordance with the 
following standards to maintain proper sanitary conditions.
(1) The premises shall be zoned mainly for the exchange of goods brought for sale in 
vehicles as meat and fish, vegetables and fruits and other goods and for the washing 
of fruits and vegetables.
Short title
That a market 
shall comply with 
sanitary standards

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
14A
(2) Latrines in the premises shall be adequate for both men and women outside the zones 
referred to in Sub-section (1) above and shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage 
pit by a specific drain so that the water used therein shall not flow into any zone of 
the premises.
(3) Zones within the premises shall be numbered and displayed in a map at the entrance to 
the premises in order for the easy attention of the visitors to the premises.
(4) Permanent constructions within the premises shall be constructions built in accordance 
with the provisions of the written law to that effect.
(5) every construction on the premises shall be well constructed and anything or any 
material used for that purpose shall not release anything which contaminates food.
(6) Necessary separations shall be made to prevent cross-contamination in the premises.
(7) Arrangements shall be made to prevent the spread of animals such as dogs and cats 
in the premises, and all construction surfaces shall be prepared as inanimate surfaces.
(8) A parking zone shall be established to prevent contamination of things brought in, 
things kept in the premises for sale from any substance, liquid or gas releases or leaks 
from any vehicle entering the premises.
(9) The people deployed to unload, move the goods or the people work for such purposes 
shall be pre-identified for the purpose and the information for their identities shall be 
maintained by the market keeper documenting and updating the information.
(10) The market keeper shall document the identities of those who come to the premises 
for trade and those who come for their support and maintain the information updated.
(11) The floor of the premises shall be prepared so that water does not stagnate and the 
internal drains shall be arranged so that water can flow easily.
(12) Septic tank or soakage pit shall be adequately constructed in the premises to allow 
wastewater to flow, and any soakage pit or soakage pit in the premises shall be located 
at a distance of at least 15.25 m, if there is a water source without an external opening.
(13) All stands set up to keep goods for trade within the premises shall have a washable 
surface and each surface shall be disinfected and cleaned prior to use.
(14) The interior layout of the premises shall be arranged with a reasonable distance to 
walk easily. 
(15) Goods and materials sold on the premises shall be kept out of direct contact with the 
ground and shall be placed on a stand or platform at a certain height above the ground.
(16) Closed garbage bins shall be set up in each zone sufficient for the temporary disposal of 
waste collected in the premises, and the waste shall be disposed only to the appropriate 
garbage bin where it should be disposed of according to its nature.
(17) Traders engaged in trading in the premises or customers shall not spit on the premises.

<!-- page 15 -->

15A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(18) No cooking or lighting shall be done on the premises and if cooked food is taken out 
and sold, all such food shall be stored in airtight containers and all food shall be sold 
with gloves and kitchen tongs.
(19) When disposing the gloves, masks used on the premises; Specific closed garbage bins 
shall be adequately maintained for their disposal; relevant disposals shall be done 
accordingly.
(20) Within the area where the fish is sold on the premises;
(A)  Stands for the sale of fish shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
(b)  The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit through properly 
constructed closed drains.
(C)  If fish is stored, it should be refrigerated and stored at a temperature of two degrees 
Celsius or less.
(D)  Light bulbs and fittings hanging above the fish for sale shall be secured and covered.
(E)   No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above the place where the fish is 
kept for sale and in contact with the fish and no contamination of the fish shall 
occur in any way.
(F)   Sewage collected during the sale of fish shall be temporarily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed in 
accordance with a waste management program implemented by the Urban Council 
or in accordance with the instructions of the Public Health Inspector. 
(G)  Refrigerated fish kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.
(H)  What is used for packaging in the sale of fish shall not be a printed paper or a 
packaging material that comes in direct contact with the fish.
(I)    All fishmongers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
(J)    All fishmongers shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling fish.
(K)   Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and 
cleaned.
(21) Within the area where the meat is sold on the premises;
(A) Stands for the sale of meat shall be made of permanent materials and shall be 
cleaned and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
(b) The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit through properly 
prepared closed drains.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
16A
(C) If meat is stored, it should be refrigerated and meat should be stored at a temperature 
of two degrees Celsius or less.
(D) Light bulbs and fittings hanging above the meat for sale shall be secured and covered.
(e) No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above the place where the meat 
is kept for sale and in contact with the meat and the contamination of the meat 
shall not occur in any way.
(F) Sewage collected during the sale of meat shall be temporarily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed 
in accordance with the waste management program implemented by the Urban 
Council or as per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
(G) refrigerated meat kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient 
temperature.
(H) What is used for packaging in the sale of meat shall not be printed paper or packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the meat.
(I) All meat sellers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
(J) All engaged in the sale of meat shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling 
meat.
(K) Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and cleaned.
(22) Within the area where vegetables and fruits are sold on the premises;
(A) Sales locations shall be well ventilated and well lighted artificially or naturally.
(B) No washing of fruits and vegetables shall be done on the same place; vegetables 
and fruits washed and cleaned in a separate place on the premises for this purpose 
shall be kept for sale.
(C) No rotten vegetables or fruits shall be mixed with good quality vegetables and fruits.
(d) A person suffering from any infectious disease, infected or a person suffering from 
a skin disease shall not engage in selling activities.
(E) Rotten fruits and vegetables shall be disposed only in specifically designated 
containers.
(F) No person engaged in sale shall eat food, smoke, spit, chew betel and other items, 
cough, sneeze or touch the nose in such a manner as to contaminate vegetables 
or fruits and the hygiene of vegetables and fruits shall be maintained.
 (G) The water used to prevent drying of vegetables and fruits shall be drinking water 
and the use of any prohibited chemical substance in fruits and vegetables shall 
not be allowed.

<!-- page 17 -->

17A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(23) When the Chairman has made an order in this regard on the instructions of the medical 
Officer of Health that any epidemic situation has arisen in an authority area or 
when any of the provisions applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of 
diseases ordinance or any of the regulations made therein shall come into force, 
the following actions shall be properly implemented;
(A) That facilities shall be provided for cleaning hands at specific places in the premises 
and action will be taken accordingly.
(b) That the prevailing conditions and regulations regarding the use of public toilets 
in the premises shall be properly implemented.
(C) That the disinfection process to be carried out in the premises on the instructions 
of the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector shall be carried 
out in accordance with the recommended schedule.
(d) That all operations on the premises shall be carried out in accordance with the 
instructions given to the users of the premises to protect social distancing.
(e) That action will be taken accordingly when the entry of vehicles into the premises 
is restricted.
(F) That notices have been circulated in the premises regarding the health practices to 
be followed from time to time and that action will be taken accordingly.
(G) That the masks and gloves used in the premises are disposed without mixing with 
other garbage.
6. In order to maintain a market in accordance with the standards set forth in Section 5 of this 
by-law, all actions shall be taken by a keeper of the common market in the case of a common 
market and by the license holder in the case of a private market.
7. The Chairman or a Public Health Inspector or an authorized officer shall inspect whether the 
premises are maintained in accordance with the standards set forth in this by-law.
8. When any market is maintained in violation of or not complies with the standards set out in 
Section 5 above; a written notice issued by the Chairman may specify a time period to be 
compliance with the standards.
9. Failure to comply with a notice issued under Section 8 above shall be an offense and shall 
be punishable under Sub-section 153 (2) of the Urban Council ordinance ,Chapter 255, after 
being convicted by a magistrate Court.
Inspecting power.
Provide a specific 
time period by a 
notice.
Penalty.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
18A
10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law,
"Council" means Horana Urban Council,
"Chairman" means to the person who holds the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban 
Council at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position.
“Authorized Officer” means any officer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Urban 
Council,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food or food 
chain; 
"Hygiene" means all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages of a food chain.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Definition
Inconsistency 
between texts.
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   PRIV ATE   EDUCATIONAL   INSTITUTIONS
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect matters relating to public health in 
places where private educational institutions are maintained within the authority area of the 
Horana Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law on Private educational Institutions of the Horana Urban 
Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain any building as a private educational institution except under a 
license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above Section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a fixed inspection fee for site inspections to be 
carried out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to the application made under this by-law.
8. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law shall have fulfilled the following conditions 
applicable to a private educational institution herein (hereinafter referred to as premises).
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Inspection fees.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 19 -->

19A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises shall be constructions in 
accordance with a plan approved under the Urban development Authority Act No. 41 
of 1978 or under the Housing and Urban development ordinance.
(2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant with the objectives for an 
educational purpose.
(3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper finishing and arranged in a manner 
that is more favourable and does not adversely affect the educational activities carried 
out on the premises.
(4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall be arranged with adequate space.
(5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper 
cleanliness.
(6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, or artificially fulfilled with the 
necessary requirements.
(7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made.
(8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premises and there shall be emergency 
exits to exit the premises in case of an emergency.
(9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platforms and they shall be well 
ventilated or air conditioned.
(10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits and shall include an additional 
exit door for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students.
(11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than fifty 
children.
(12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats shall be arranged so that they can                 
be seated at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 
0.75 m long and wide.
(13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in such a way that they can be 
seated together, the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and distances mentioned 
in Section 12 above can be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables 
shall be set up to accommodate no more than six students.
(14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space between each set of seat and 
table, and the space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to move.
(15) Seats and tables shall be firmly fixed to the floor and all shall be well made and easy 
to use.
(16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that they do not retain 
organisms and every wall shall be properly finished.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
20A
(17) The premises shall have a fire protection program in place and a fire safety certificate 
shall be obtained as applicable.
(18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the premises and section without 
constructions shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition.
(19) drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a way that it easily drained without 
retaining wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central 
treatment unit.
(20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises shall be installed in accordance 
with the approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at 
least 15.25 m away and it shall not be exposed to air.
(21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the premises and all latrines;
(A) Shall be provided separately for males and females.
(b) Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintain an adequate supply of 
water on a regular basis.
(C) Each latrine shall have a permanent well-fixed stainless water basin with a good 
water supply for hand washing at a specified space allocated.
9. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 8 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 8 are 
not complied with.
10. The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
11. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until december 31 of the year in which the license applies.
12. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
validity period of a 
license.
Information 
related to a 
license.

<!-- page 21 -->

21A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lecture halls shall be air-conditioned 
and the relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working condition in order 
to maintain a proper temperature.
(3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the lecture halls; shall be 
adequately controlled and maintained in accordance with the national environmental 
regulations.
(4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives, there shall be a specific place 
on each premises to temporarily quarantine them.
(5) Sufficient identity information including the name, addresses, and telephone numbers 
of all those studying on the premises shall be maintained, and information about the 
daily visitors shall be maintained in an identifiable manner.
(6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfected and maintained.
(7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and maintained on the ground 
surface preventing water and dust retention.
(8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, water basins with adequate 
water supply shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided.
(9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is easily visible to the students 
and the students are easily visible to the lecturer.
(10) A system shall be set up to record information about those who visit the premises on 
each day when the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity 
information regarding all those who work on the premises.
(11) About employees working on the premises,
(A) If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanitary facilities and 
accommodation facilities.
(b) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and maintained separately for males 
and females.
(12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so that they can be used for 
emergencies; The staff shall be trained for that.
(13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall be controlled in accordance with 
the regulations of the Central environmental Authority.
(14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall be properly maintained; A report 
from an electrical engineer or a qualified professional shall be obtained at least once 
in every two years.
(15) A person suffering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such 
a vector or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and the license 
holder shall be satisfied that such person is not employed.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
22A
(16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in sealed garbage bins specifically 
maintained for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the 
premises; all of them shall only be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall 
be maintained on the premises for only that purpose.
(17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with a program 
implemented by the Urban Council or the Public Health Inspector.
(18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the following actions on the premises or 
any of them or any other regulations for the benefit of public health on the advice of 
the Medical Officer of Health when required to act in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic under the Quarantine and Prevention of disease ordinance or a regulation 
made under it or when there is an epidemic situation in the authority area or when the 
Chairman has decided, on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health, that there are 
sufficient grounds to suspect the spread of an epidemic.
(A) That the work on the premises carried out under the licences shall be temporarily 
suspended for a period of time.
(b) That an emergency response plan shall be in place on the premises.
(C) That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stopped.
(D) That the distribution of lecture leaflets by hand shall be stopped.
(E) That a specified distance shall be maintained within the premises.
(F) That to make sure that the body temperature is below the normal range, when 
entering the premises.
(G) That the air conditioner filters shall be cleaned once a week.
 
(H) That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with the Chairman related to the 
maintenance of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
(I) That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premises.
(J) That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when coughing and sneezing.
 
(K) That there shall be a specific place for food consumption and that food shall be 
consumed separately at that place.
(L) That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises shall be exhibited in an 
easily identifiable manner.
(M) That entry into the premises and exit from the premises shall be done in groups.
 
(N) That those who work on the premises shall undergo regular medical check-ups as 
prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health at regular intervals.

<!-- page 23 -->

23A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
13. If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premises, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those shall be considered to have been 
suppressed subject to a license obtained under this by-law.
14. each premises shall display this by-law and the license obtained thereon or a copy thereof.
15. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Public Health Inspector or any other 
authorized officer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time 
to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman 
may grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend 
the time period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period 
granted so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the 
period specified in the first notice.
17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder fails to be 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 
above.
18. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court 
for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by 
him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of 
such violation. 
19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law,
“Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban Council 
at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
"basic Law" means the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Cancellation of the 
license.
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
premises.
Penalty.
Definitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
24A
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the Private educational Institution: - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the private educational institution is registered, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the private educational institution,
 I. Name and personal address:
 II. National Identity Card Number:
 III. Telephone Number :  Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
11. Approved building plan number and date: -
12. Number and Date of the Certificate of Conformity: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
date: -        
        
                                                                                       ……………………………….
                                                                                     Signature of the applicant

<!-- page 25 -->

25A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
date: -         .................................
                                                                                                                                             Secretary,
Secretary
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
date :-         …………………………….
                                                                                  revenue Inspector
                                                                                                                              
Medical Officer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the application 
mentioned on the back.
date:-                                                      .................................
                                                                                                                               Secretary,
Medical Officer of Health,
eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance of licenses.
date :-                                                   .................................
                                                                                                                Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date:-                                                          .................................
                    Medical Officer of Health,

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
26A
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   DISINfECTION   Of   PUbLIC   PLACES
1. This by-law is enacted to make provisions for the relevant incidental matters, including the 
disinfection of public places and places of worship within the authority area of the Horana 
Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law regarding the provisions relating to disinfection of Public 
Places in the Horana Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. Under the following circumstances the Chairman shall disinfect or arrange to do so any place 
where the public gathers or gathered for matters of public importance or for a specific purpose 
including places of worship within the authority area of the Horana Urban Council (herein after 
referred to as authority area):
(1) In cases where there is a need to disinfect places of worship or other places where public 
gathers or gathered located within the authority area in accordance with the provisions of 
the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it.
(2) When there is a spread of an epidemic in any part or territory of Sri Lanka or in the 
authority area or when the Chairman has decided on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health that there are sufficient grounds to suspect the spread of any epidemic in the 
authority area.
(3) When a person dies due to an undiagnosed disease in a authority area and the places 
where the deceased person travelled has been identified.
(4) When the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector has decided that the 
premises should be disinfected when a large gathering of the public is held or is being 
held at any place of worship and when such a religious ceremony is over.
(5) When a premises is maintained for a period of time without any activity and is used to 
gather people back to the premises.
(6) When it has been reported that a patient who has been infected or suspected of being 
infectious, or who has been in contact with such a patient has visited or acted in a place 
where public is gathered. 
(7) When the Medical Officer of Health has advised that the areas identified as common 
public places shall be disinfected, when an outbreak of an epidemic is reported in their 
authority area or in any part of Sri Lanka.
(8) When the Medical Officer of Health has instructed that the relevant premises shall be 
disinfected for the benefit of the public health, when it matters the public to gather at 
any place of worship or public place. 
(9) When any public places are subject to disinfection in accordance with a plan imple -
mented for the purpose of promoting and protecting public health in the authority area.
Short title
Circumstances 
where disinfection 
shall be done

<!-- page 27 -->

27A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(10) Whenever it is decided by the Chairman to disinfect any public premises as per the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health that it should be done for the sake of a 
more accurate health care existence.
5. If any public premises in the authority area is used by any person for public gathering, when 
there is a possibility of an epidemic spreading in the area or when there is a suspicion that it 
may be so, it is lawful for the Chairman to make any of the following orders to the person or 
the organizer engaged as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health. 
(1) That the premises shall be disinfected before gathering the people in the relevant 
premises.
(2) That the premises shall be disinfected after the people have gathered and dispersed in 
the relevant premises.
(3) That the premises shall be disinfected before and after use.
6. It is the responsibility and duty of the person who gets the order to act in accordance with the 
orders made by the Chairman under the above section.
7. The Chairman may act for the disinfection of religious places and public places within the 
authority area for the benefit of the public in accordance with a specific schedule prepared on 
the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health.
8. It is an offense if a person does not act in accordance with the orders made under Section 5 
above by the Chairman and shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 153 (2) of the Urban 
Council ordinance, Chapter 255, after being convicted by a magistrate Court.
9. If disregards the orders made by the Chairman under Section 5,it is lawful for the Chairman to 
disinfect the premises relevant to that order and charge the defaulter the cost spent incurred.
10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law ;
"Council" means Horana Urban Council,
"Chairman" means the person who holds the office of the Chairman of the Horana  Urban 
Council at that time or performs the duties of that position,
"Medical Officer of Health" means those who hold the office of the Medical Officer of Health 
division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
"Public Health Inspector" means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
"Person" means an individual or managing director or manager of the organization or any 
person acting on behalf of that organization when referring to an organization by the name of 
an individual.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this by-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
ordering a party 
to disinfect.
Penalty.
Definition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
28A
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   RECEPTION   HALLS         
1. This by-law is enacted to protect the public health under the activities of the reception halls 
maintained in the authority area of the Horana Urban Council and regulate, supervise and 
control such places. 
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law regarding reception Halls in the Horana Urban Council.
3. The Horana Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of 
Section 153 of Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of 
the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana  Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a reception hall except under a license obtained from the Chair-
man under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chair-
man unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accor -
dance with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or 
the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance and;
(A) If the authority area is subject to zoning, the relevant constructions shall be located 
accordingly.
 
(B) The Certificate of Conformity shall be obtained prior to construction use. 
(2) All constructions shall be well made of permanent construction materials.
(3) The reception halls shall have the necessary reservations, divisions and placements to 
prevent cross-contamination, and the interior shall be designed to maintain adequate 
distance.
(4) Adequate space shall be maintained inside the halls so that operations can be carried 
out without interruption.
(5) Premises including buildings shall be designed to prevent the entry and retention of 
pests and contamination substances.
(6) The premises shall be designed to facilitate easy and proper cleaning and to facilitate 
proper supervision of food hygiene.
(7) The stages in the premises shall be of proper standard and the halls shall be designed 
to absorb internal sound.
(8) The interior of the hall shall be air-conditioned or have windows that can be opened to 
not less than one-fifteenth of the area of the hall leaving space for adequate ventilation.
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 29 -->

29A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(9) Adequate lighting in halls shall be arranged in a natural or artificial way.
(10) Doors shall have a smooth and non-absorbent surface and shall be fixed in such a way 
that automatically closed when appropriate.
(11) Fire protection equipment shall be fixed in all halls in the premises.
(12) There shall be no fungus growth or leakage from any of the fixtures or structures in-
stalled in the premises.
(13) Window openings in the premises shall be easy to clean and shall be fitted with nets to 
prevent insects from entering.
(14) There shall be separate latrine facilities for customers and employees, which shall be 
maintained separately for both males and females.
(15) buildings on the premises shall be made with access facilities for the disabled.
(16) Closed drains with slopes preventing sedimentation shall be installed as not to retain 
wastewater and sewage, and all drains shall be directed to a septic tank, soakage pit or 
central treatment unit constructed in accordance with an approved plan, and an approved 
method shall be followed through a water trap or plan to prevent contamination between 
the premises and the final disposal.
(17) The waste collected in the premises shall be handed over in accordance with a waste 
management program implemented by the Municipal Council or a specific arrangement 
shall be made for the disposal of waste in accordance with a procedure prescribed by 
the Medical Officer of Health or Public Health Inspector.
(18) drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use in the premises and shall be 
stored in containers under specified standards.
(19) Facilities made with stainless steel or other suitable material for hand washing shall be 
supplied on the premises. 
(20) In the cooking and processing area on the premises, 
(A) Floor and walls shall be made of washable and non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
(b) All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergents and disinfectants.
(C) The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
(d) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects.
(E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy flow of air from outside and to flow 
exhaust air out.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
30A
(21) In relation to the place where food is served to the customers on the premises;
(A) The space for serving food shall be prepared with more space so that food can be 
obtained with adequate distance. 
(b) When food is consumed in an open space, it shall be designed to get well ventilated 
and prevent birds and other animals from entering.
(22) Adequate parking lots shall be provided for visitors to the premises.
(23) For the employees on the premises,
(A) If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the food processing and 
storage area. 
(b) rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meters of space is available for 
each employee to sleep. 
(C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided. 
(24) The premises shall be equipped with automatic generators of sufficient capacity to be 
utilized in case of emergency power failure.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspec-
tions related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provi-
sions of this by-law, it shall be valid until december 31 of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all guidelines made 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case where a 
disease is declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Preven-
tion of disease ordinance.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
 Inspection fees.
validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 31 -->

31A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they 
visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the director General of Health Services or the medical of-
ficer of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented 
in the premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisfied that 
it is being so.
(5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are 
being so.
(7) The interior floor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip 
easily, and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning 
on that regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.
(8) drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily.
(9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain 
of the road or outside area.
(10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
(11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the temperature required for cooking 
and refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
(12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shall be maintained in accordance 
with the following requirements.
(A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-absor-
bent material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of 
stainless material.
(b) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
(C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
(d) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitable condition to be used.
(13) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that 
does not harm the taste of the food.
(14) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking 
food and cooked food or similar.

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
32A
(15) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be thoroughly washed, cleaned 
and used.
(16) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous containers free from con-
tamination.
(17) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water.
(18) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from 
any other pipeline.
(19) A specific internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked 
on the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that specifically assigned 
persons shall be employed to regulate it.
(20) Meat and fish brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the prem-
ises and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without 
contamination.
(21) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling food on the premises;
(A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or fingers.
(b) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favorable  use for food. 
(C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
(d) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall always be kept out of 
contact with any food. 
(e) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean and in separate containers.
(F) employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in such a way that their 
activity, usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way.
(22) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made 
under it or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area 
as per the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons involved in prepar-
ing, handling, serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises 
in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public 
Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other 
provisions of this by-law. 
(23) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises shall be in very clean condition 
and disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall 
be of clean condition.
(24) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently 
with disinfectants.
(25) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with disinfectant shall be provided 
in the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption areas of the premises 
and adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises.

<!-- page 33 -->

33A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(26) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such 
a way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not 
cause contamination of food.
(27) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premises in any way.
(28) employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene 
and shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the medical 
Officer of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records 
shall also be maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. 
Also the health check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
(29) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
(30) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written 
rules applicable to it.
(31) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the 
Public Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in 
accordance with the instructions given by him.
(32) Adequate first aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.
(33) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed 
containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and such waste 
shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and instructions 
implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
(34) Every person who handle food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate 
hygienic clothing.
(35) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections 
or any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
(36) every person involved in handling of food on the premises where the reception halls 
are located shall not engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, 
or touching the nose, which can cause food contamination.
(37) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises.
(38) In the event of any person visits the premises for consumption of food or employee 
serving on the premises of a reception hall contracted an infectious, transmittable or 
skin disease, the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and upon 
such notification, all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quaran-
tine instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector 
authorized by him.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
34A
(39) When the premises where the reception halls are located are subjected to the quarantine 
process, the premises shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certificate has 
been issued by the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating 
that the quarantine period is over and the premises have been completely disinfected.
(40) Health care measures that are implemented on the premises shall be prominently dis-
played on the premises in such a way that everyone who handles and consumes food in 
the reception halls can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according 
to them.
(41) The license holder shall have provided all information regarding the employees working 
on the premises to the Chairman.
12. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement re-
garding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
13. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be main-
tained in accordance with all the terms of that order.
14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so 
shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period specified 
in the first notice.
16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 
15 above.
17. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court 
for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, 
he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 153(2) of the 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation.
Power to enter the 
premises.
Cancellation of the 
license.
Penalty.

<!-- page 35 -->

35A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
 “Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban Council 
at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license under 
this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals 
or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
"Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages in the food chain,
"Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health effects,
"Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
"reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work,
 "basic Law" means the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Definitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
36A
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: - ____________________________.
02. Personal Address: - ____________________________.
03. National Identity Card Number: - ____________________________.
04. Phone number: - ____________________________.
05. Start year: - ____________________________.
06. Address where the reception hall is located : - ____________________________. 
07. Grama Niladhari division: - ____________________________.
08. Assessment Number: - ____________________________.
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:- ____________________________. 
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address : ____________________________.
 II. National Identity Card Number: ____________________________.
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: - _______________.     Fixed: - _________________.
 
11.  Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
date:-              
                              ……………………………….
                                                                                                     Signature of the applicant
For office use
revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in relation 
to the application mentioned on the back.
date: -         .................................
                                                                                                                             Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
date :-         …………………………….
                                                                                                                        revenue Inspector

<!-- page 37 -->

37A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
Medical Officer of Health,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in relation 
to the application mentioned on the back.
date:-                                                      .................................
                                                                                                                            Secretary
Medical Officer of Health,
eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I report to recommend the issuance of licenses.
date :-                                                   .................................
                                                                                                                  Public Health Officer
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date:-                                                          .................................
                                                                                                                 Medical Officer of Health
bY-LAw
REGULARIZING    bEAUTY   CENTERS
1. This by-law is enacted to control and regulate the maintenance of beauty centers maintained 
within the authority area of the Horana Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law relating To  beauty Centers of the Horana  Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana  Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a beauty center (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the 
Housing and Urban development ordinance. 
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions related 
to a license.

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
38A
(2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business name. 
(3) The License holder shall confirm that a person with a Certificate in Beauty Certificate or 
a similar vocational competency certificate conducted by a training institute registered 
with the Tertiary and vocational education Commission is employed on the premises.
(4) Constructions on the premises shall be made of permanent construction materials and 
shall be of good and hygienic condition.
(5) Adequate space shall be provided in proportion to the number of clients simultaneously 
serving not less than 2.25 square meters of floor area separately for each client.
(6) For any client who arrive therein in anticipation of services shall provide with adequate 
space to be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 meters distance from the place where 
another client is being served.
(7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meters in height and shall be painted.
(8) All sections of the premises shall be finished with a ceiling or concrete plate and shall 
be at least 2.7 meters above the ground level.
(9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that can be opened sufficiently 
to allow air to flow in from the outside.
(10) The premises shall be well finished so that the relevant light is well received. 
(11) drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use of the premises and shall be 
stored in containers which meet the standards.
(12) Facilities shall be provided for bathing when required after providing the services of 
the client.
(13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for washing the equipment and 
containers used for the clients.
(14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employees and customers of the 
institution and it shall be constructed of permanent materials in a proper and hygienic 
manner.
(15) Specific equipment shall be fixed for washing the hands, head or face of the customers 
and they shall be cleaned and disinfected after use by one person before being used by 
another and that equipment shall be made of stainless materials.
(16) Adequate measures shall be taken not flow the wastewater discharged from the premises 
into public drains or open ground and shall be properly directed to a septic tank or a 
soakage pit. 
(17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises shall not be open to the outside and 
if there is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.  
(18) If there is a disposal of chemical wastewater from the premises, the relevant disposal shall 
be made in accordance with a procedure recommended by the Central environmental 
Authority or the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.

<!-- page 39 -->

39A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(19) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequate facilities for the customers 
waiting for services.
(20) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked by a professional and certified 
to be safe from leakage.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a license made under this by-law, the 
Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the premises if it is in accordance with 
the conditions mentioned in Section 7.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it is not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections 
in connection with the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the license is related.
11. All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all orders issued by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in the event of an outbreak 
of an epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of diseases ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service 
facilities shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come 
to the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly on the premises as directed 
by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer of Health or by 
the Chairman on their instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in 
the authority area to protect from it, and the license holder shall be satisfied that it is 
being so.
(5) An information register shall be maintained relevant to all those who come to the 
premises expecting services.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
40A
(6) every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and hair removal of the customers, 
everyone who engages in such activities shall wear face masks and gloves as much as 
possible.
(7) To manage and maintain equipment and utensils on the premises, the license holder 
shall ensure that there are, 
(A)     Adequate facilities for the sterilization of used equipment and utensils; 
(b)     an accepted sterilization method and a adequate number of equipment used for 
sterilization; 
(C)      Soap or soapy liquid with hand washing facilities when providing services to 
the service providers inside; 
(d)     Adequate number of white or other light colored towels and upper body covers 
and hats for the use of the clients; 
(e)     When electric power tools are used, secure and permanent power plugs, to one 
customer's desk; 
(F)      Sterilization methods after each use of equipment.
(8) every employee working on the premises shall have a training in the use of safety 
equipment, service delivery and other activities related to the premises.
(9) Facilities shall be available to provide hot and cold water as required for the services 
relevant to the premises.
(10) everything used for cosmetic purposes shall be standardized things approved and 
registered.
(11) Service providers shall be well trained to provide first aid functions as required under 
the services provided on the premises.
(12) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of air in the premises, and if air 
conditioned, all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature.
(13) The filters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and 
maintained.
(14) The relevant service shall be provided only after the hands have been cleaned with soap 
or sanitizer before providing the service to a customer.
(15) When working on the premises, the service shall not be provided to a customer without 
adequate cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any 
contaminants.
(16) When serving the customers on the premises, every service provider shall wear an 
apron and it shall be of very clean condition.

<!-- page 41 -->

41A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(17) dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each service on the premises, and all 
shall be temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin.
(18) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleaned daily with disinfectants before 
starting work.
(19) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose.
. (20) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for the separate collection of waste 
collected in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that. 
(21) The following procedures shall be followed in the management of waste that collects 
in relation to the premises.
(A)      removed hair shall be collected at the end of each service and disposed in a 
separate garbage bin. 
(b)     other waste generated by the activities in the premises shall be collected 
separately without mixing them with the discharged hair. 
(C)        The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council or in accordance 
with the waste disposal strategy implemented by the license holder as agreed 
by the Public Health Inspector. 
(22) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected at least twice a day and shall 
be kept free from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an epidemic 
in the authority area, the latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in 
accordance with the guidelines given by the Chairman as instructed by the medical 
Officer of Health.
(23) Any person who suffers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has 
recently suffered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has 
recently infected from any such disease, unless the period of infection and incubation 
has expired, shall not be employed or employed as an assistant at any licensed place.
(24) Any person identified as suffering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall 
not normally be entered to the premises for service.
(25) When the license holder decides or in case where it is prescribed by the Council or 
any other competent authority as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the body 
temperature of all persons visit seeking service on the premises shall be checked to 
ensure that their body temperature is at a normal level and entered into the premises, and 
required thermometers shall be maintained to check body temperature without contact.
(26) The health guidelines to be followed by each client on the premises shall be displayed 
on the premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activities are carried out in 
accordance with those guidelines.

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
42A
(27) Applies to everyone employed on the premises, the license holder shall ensure that, 
(A)   That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good health condition, 
(b)   That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not 
harm the customer, 
(C)      That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service.
(28) It is the job of the license holder to subject the employees of the premises to medical 
checkups at least once a year.
(29) A copy of this by-law and license shall be maintained on display in each premises.
12. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
13. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that order.
14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so 
shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period specified 
in the first notice.
16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 
15 above.
17. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court 
for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of Urban Council ordinance, 
Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 153(2) of the said ordinance. Further, after being found 
guilty of such an offense, if the violation continues even after the notice has been given by the 
Chairman or an officer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred 
to in the aforesaid Section 153 of Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-
Section 153(2) of the said ordinance for each day of such violation.
Power to enter the 
premises.
Cancellation of 
the license.
Penalty.

<!-- page 43 -->

43A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
Definitions.
18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
“Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban Council 
at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
"disinfectant" means to reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by a chemical 
agent or physical means to a level that does not reduce the safety or suitability,
   "reasonable Time" shall mean the Licensed Function or the relevant time.    
19. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the beauty center is maintained : - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:-  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address :
 II. National Identity Card Number :
 III. Telephone Number :   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
44A
11.  Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
date:-              
                        ……………………………….
                                                                                                             Sginature of the applicant
For office use
revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back.
date: -         .................................
                                                                                                                           Secretary
Secretary,
recommended/ not recommended issuing the license.
date :-               …………………………….
                                                                                                                     revenue Inspector
Medical Officer of Health,
I kindly request that  your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect of the application 
mentioned in the back.
date:-                                                   .................................
                                                                                                                        Secretary
Medical Officer of Health,
Compliance with by-laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a licenses.
date :-                                                   .................................
                                                                                                Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per  above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date:-                                                     .................................
                                                                                                              Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 45 -->

45A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw  
REGULARIZING   LAUNDRY   AND   wASHING  PLACES
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate and supervise the operation of laundry and washing places 
maintained within the authority area of the Horana  Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law on the maintenance of Laundry and Washing Places in the 
Horana Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana  Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall operate a laundry or a washing center (hereinafter referred to as a premise) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are fulfilled.
(1) If the constructions relevant to the premises are permanent constructions, all such 
constructions shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of the Urban 
development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban development 
ordinance.
(2) There shall be separate room facilities for temporary storage of cloths brought for 
cleaning in the premises till cleaning.
(3) Accepting cloths for cleaning on the premises and returning the cleaned cloths shall 
not be done by one person at the same time.
(4) When washing, drying and reprocessing of clothes take place in the same premises,
(A) drainage related to the premises shall be maintained in such a way that it is easily 
drained and wastewater shall be diverted to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment 
unit according to approved procedures.
(b) machines used for washing and drying clothes shall be in good working condition, 
properly fitted to the floor and set up so that the noise generated during operation does 
not spread to the outside. 
(C) The electrical circuit of the premises shall be one which is fixed permanently and 
the plugs shall be properly fitted for the required electrical capacity. 
(D) The water discharged during washing shall be finally disposed of without any 
outflow. 
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
46A
(E) Windows and openings shall be fitted out to allow light and air to enter the premises 
easily, and if not shall be artificially lighted and air conditioned.
(F) Tables and other equipment for ironing work shall be set up at a sufficient distance 
so that they can be used properly. 
(G) Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for the employees working on the 
premises and adequate latrine facilities shall be provided for both males and females. 
(H) There shall be hygienic containers to keep the cleaned clothes temporarily and they 
shall not contact with the dirty clothes in any way. 
(I) There shall be rooms or partitions with doors that can be closed to keep clothes after 
ironing until they are returned. 
(J) The interior of the premises shall be designed to maintain a proper distance when 
required.
(5) When washing clothes outside the premises, a public water source shall not be used 
for that purpose and the applicant shall be certified,
(A) That washing clothes will be done at a place specified for that purpose and that the 
place will be confirmed from time to time;
(b) That no chemical used in cleaning clothes are released into any water source after 
use. 
(6) When washing clothes is done outside the premises, necessary facilities shall be 
provided to ensure that dirty clothes are not mixed or contact with cleaned clothes in 
any way while carrying dirty clothes outside the premises to wash and bringing them 
back after cleaning. 
(8) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers.
(9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of sufficient capacity shall be available 
to be utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
(10) Internal drainage and sewage disposal in the premises shall be directed to a septic 
tank or soakage pit, and if the septic tank or soakage pit is in a water source, it shall 
be more than 15.25 m away.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a license made under this by-law, the 
Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the premises if it is in accordance with 
the conditions mentioned in Section 7.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it is not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.

<!-- page 47 -->

47A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site 
inspections in connection with the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the 
license is related.
11. All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) The clothes handed over for cleaning shall be kept in a container in a specific room on 
the premises until it is cleaned.
(2) disposal of any chemicals used to clean clothes on the premises shall be done in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Medical Officer of Health or the Public 
Health Inspector.
(3) drains or pipes which discharge waste water due to cleaning of clothes in the premises 
shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit so that it does not open on the ground 
surface.
(4) Latrines for employees on the premises shall be kept clean and disinfected.
(5) If burning charcoal is used for ironing, they shall be thoroughly extinguished after use, 
collected in a separate container and disposed as waste.
(6) If there are residential employees on the premises;
(A) Separate residential facilities shall be provided under adequate sanitation facilities.
(b) The area for the purpose of accommodation and dining on the premises shall be 
kept separate from the area where the licensing process takes place.
(7) A person suffering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such a 
vector or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises in any way and the 
license holder shall be always satisfied that such person is not employed.
(8) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(9) It is lawful for the Chairman to order, on the instructions of the Medical Officer of 
Health, to carry out all or some of the following actions in connection with the conduct 
of license-related functions in the premises in the event of the implementation of 
regulations relating to any epidemic situation in the authority area under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it.
(A) That the activities on the premises carried out under the license shall be temporarily 
suspended for a certain period of time. 

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
48A
(B) That work shall be carried out keeping specific social distancing while working 
on the premises.
(C) A specific procedure shall be followed in handing over dirty clothes, cleaning and 
returning. 
(d) The health guidelines applicable to the activities on the premises shall be displayed 
in a manner visible to the public and employees. 
(e) That shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman stating that the 
premises will be maintained in accordance with the health regulations applicable from 
time to time. 
(F) employees working on the premises shall engage in work wearing gloves and 
masks for specific purposes.
(G) That the premises shall be disinfected. 
12. Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed to sealed garbage bins specifically 
maintained for that purpose, and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the 
premises, all of them shall only be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall 
be maintained on the premises for only that purpose. 
13. Waste collected on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council.
14. each premises shall display this by-law and the license obtained thereon or a copy 
thereof.
15. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Public Health Inspector 
or any other authorized officer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect 
whether the premises is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
16. (1) In the event of being against this by-law or violation of the provisions of this by-law 
in a premises licensed under this by-law, the Chairman shall submit to the license 
holder a notice informing a specific time period not exceeding thirty days to be in 
compliance with the by-law.
(2) After submitting a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted 
so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period 
specified in the first notice.
17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder 
fails to be comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given 
under section 16 above.
18. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this 
by-law or in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by 
a magistrate Court for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of 
the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the 
said ordinance. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized 
by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in that sub-section for 
each day of such violation. 
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
premises.
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty

<!-- page 49 -->

49A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law,
 “Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana 
Urban Council at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical 
Officer of Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health 
Inspector attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health 
relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
"basic Law" means the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this 
By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Definitions
first Schedule
Application for a License for the Year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: - ____________________.
02. Personal Address: - ____________________.
03. National Identity Card Number: - ____________________.
04. Phone number: - ____________________.
05. Start year: - ____________________.
06. Address of the laundry or the washing place : - ____________________. 
07. Grama Niladhari division: - ____________________.
08. Assessment Number: - ____________________.
09. Approved building plan number and date :- ____________________.  
 
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year : - ____________________.
date:-              
                ……………………………….
                                                                                                        Signature of the applicant
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
50A
For office use
revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
date: -         .................................
                                                                                                                             Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
date :-                   …………………………….
                                                                                                                        revenue Inspector
Chirman,
I recommend issuing a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back
date: -
                                                                                                                              …………………………….
                                                                                                                                  Secretary
Secretary,
I approve the issuance of a licnese.
date: -
                                                                                                                             …………………………….
                                                                                                                               Chairman
 

<!-- page 51 -->

51A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   fOOD   PRODUCTION   PLACES
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, monitor, inspect and control food production places within 
the authority area of the Horana  Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law regarding Food Production Places of the Horana  Urban 
Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana  Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a place where food is produced commercially for human consumption 
(hereinafter referred to as the premises in some places) except under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the 
Housing and Urban Development Ordinance and;
(A)    The material used in all constructions shall not emit toxic substances and shall not 
emit toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where organisms 
cannot be easily retained.
(b)     The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space to enable the service to 
be performed without interruption. 
(C)    Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent entry of contamination 
substances into food raw material and cooked food.
(d)     Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the internal foods of the 
premises.
 (e)    Things disposed under the internal processing activities of the premises shall be 
          arranged with references that will not flow back in any way.
Short title.
Legal power.
That a license 
shall be obtained.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
52A
(2)  In the food processing area of the premises, 
(A)       Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
(b)      All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergents and disinfectants. 
(C)       The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
(d)     If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects. 
(E)     Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy flow of air from outside and to 
          flow exhaust air out.
(3) ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatures when adequate ventilation 
is provided in the premises or air conditioned, and all air conditioning systems shall be 
designed to prevent air from returning.
 
(4)    For the employees on the premises; 
(A) If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the food preparation, food 
production or ingredients storage area. 
(b) rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meters of space is available for 
each employee to sleep. 
(C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided for both females and males.
(5) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed so that customers can order food 
with adequate space with physical distancing when required.
(6) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers.
(7) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of sufficient capacity shall be 
available to be utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply 
failure.
(8) Internal drains and waste discharged from the premises shall be directed to a septic tank 
or a soakage pit and if that soakage pit or septic tank is in a source of water, it shall be at 
a distance more than 15.25 meters away.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions under 
Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
Issuing a license.

<!-- page 53 -->

53A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri 
Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where 
an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases 
ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all 
such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all terms made by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case where an epidemic 
is declared applicable under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of disease ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they 
visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer 
of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the 
premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisfied that it is being so.
(5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are 
being so.
(7) The interior floor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip 
easily, and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning 
on that regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.
(8) drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily.
(9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of 
the road or outside area.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees.
validity period.
Conditions 
relevant to a 
license.

<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
54A
(10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
(11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the temperature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
(12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shall be maintained in accordance 
with the following requirements.
(A)    All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of stainless 
material.
(b)   All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
(C)   Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
(d)   All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitable condition to be used.
(13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there shall be a specific 
designated place for it.
(14) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does 
not harm the taste of the food.
(15) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food 
and cooked food or similar.
(16) Premises shall have water storage facilities and the relevant containers shall be stainless.
(17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be thoroughly washed, cleaned and 
used.
(18) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous containers free from 
contamination.
(19) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water.
(20) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from 
any other pipeline.
(21) A specific internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked 
on the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that specifically assigned 
persons shall be employed to regulate it.
(22) Meat and fish brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises 
and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without 
contamination.

<!-- page 55 -->

55A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(23) If an order has been issued that all persons should wear masks when socializing when 
an epidemic situation has been declared in the authority area under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it or due to the risk of 
an epidemic in the authority area, any person not wearing a face mask shall not be allowed 
to enter the premises for transactions.
(24) everyone involved in food production shall use hats when involved in production activities.
(25) Food for sale on the premises shall not be kept in such a way as to cause contamination, 
and all activities such as serving food, assembling for takeaway, etc. shall be carried out 
under a specific procedure using appropriate gloves.
(26) All persons involved in serving, usage or assembling food on the premises;
(A)   Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or fingers 
(b)   Under no circumstances shall money be used while working.
(C)   Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favorable  use for food.
(d)    A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
(e)    The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall always be kept out of contact 
with any food. 
(F)   All utensils used for food serving shall be kept thoroughly clean and in separate 
containers.
 
(G)    employees shall work to use, assemble food in such a way that their activity, usage 
does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way.
(H)  What is taken for food wrapping shall not be a source of food contamination in any way.
(27) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons involved in preparing, usage, 
serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with 
the directives made by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by 
the Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this by-Law.
(28) (A)   Any work related to food production on the premises shall not be open to a public 
road or public space or shall not be done in a space where air flows easily from such 
a public road or open space for the general public, and food production activities 
shall take place in an enclosed space within the premises.
(b)   Chimneys and absorbent fans shall be installed so that hot air and steam generated 
in the closed space for food production can flow easily.

<!-- page 56 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
56A
(C)    Noise generated from any approved activity in food production shall not be a 
disturbance in any way to the public or consumers. 
(29) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises shall be in very clean condition 
and disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall 
be of clean condition.
(30) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently 
with disinfectants.
(31) All cooked food that can be easily spoiled among the cooked food on the premises shall be 
kept at a temperature not exceeding four degrees Celsius or else below 60 degrees Celsius 
except in the following cases. Occasions where it is not, shall be as follows.
(A)       In cases where the entire collection is not exposed or displayed for sale for more 
than two hours ; or
(B)       When preparation and serving are done in an approximate time period.
(32) Pastries, patties, savories, pizza and similar food which include cooked meat or fish which 
are consumed in the condition where there are normally sold on the premises shall be 
kept in containers with covers.
(33) Milk for use on the premises shall be kept in a refrigerator at a temperature not exceeding 
seven degrees Celsius.
(34) Pesticide materials kept on the premises shall be kept in a locked container at a specific 
place on the premises.
(35) The area for employee facilities in the premises shall be with adequate sanitary facilities 
and shall be spacious and latrines for both males and females shall be maintained in 
accordance with sanitary standards.
(36) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such a 
way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not cause 
contamination of food.
(37) Cleaning activities on the premises shall be carried out on a regular schedule subject to 
the following:
(A) A specific task assignment shall be maintained to adequately clean all sections of 
the institution, and to prioritize the cleaning and application of disinfectants in the 
specific areas described in this By-law.
(b)   It shall be the work of the license holder to make sure that the work under (A) above 
is carried out precisely.
(C)    relevant cleaning activities shall be done to prevent dust during preparation and 
assembling of food in the premises.
(d)   All utensils used in food preparation shall be maintained so that parts of cooked food 
do not remain in any way.

<!-- page 57 -->

57A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(e) The water used for cleaning, detergents and disinfectants shall be washed away so 
that it does not remain on the containers in any way.
(F)  The ceiling, walls, etc, of the premises shall be maintained so that no insect remain.
(38) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the premises in any way
(39) employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and 
shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Officer 
of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. relevent records shall also be 
maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health 
check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
(40) A health monitoring system shall be set up regarding the employees working on the 
premises and a process shall be put in plalce to get the health advice they need.
(41) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written 
rules applicable to it.
(42) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the 
Public Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in 
accordance with the instructions given by him.
(43) Prior to commencing work on the premises, all persons working on the premises shall not 
engage in cooking and assembling food without adequate sanitation after using the toilet 
and after contact with dirt, and everyone who engaged in work so shall wear a clean and 
pocket-free apron.
(44) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their hands frequently using 
disinfectants.
(45) Adequate first aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.
(46) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed 
containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and such waste 
shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and instructions 
implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
(47) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene 
during handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate 
hygienic clothing.
(48) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections or 
any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
(49) every person involved in usage of food on the premises shall not engage in activities 
such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause 
food contamination.

<!-- page 58 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
58A
(50) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic he shall not be entered to the premises.
(51) If an employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin 
disease, the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and upon such 
notification, all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine 
instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized 
by him.
(52) The license holder shall take every step to maintain the premises in such a way not to 
happen or not to do any activity in any way that could cause food contamination during 
food production.
(53) The license holder shall have provided all information regarding the employees working 
on the premises to the Chairman.
12. (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a premises relevant to this by-law 
according to the recommendations of the Medical Officer of Health, taking into account 
the quality when fulfilling the conditions under this By-law.
(2) Where the Chairman has graded under this section, the grade of the premises for the year 
relevant to the license and a certificate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed on the 
premises as visible to the public.
13. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
14. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman 
has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the 
maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the license holder 
shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy 
of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
15. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that order.
16. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
17. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
Grading the 
premises.
on-site 
inspection 
and obtaining 
samples.
Power to enter the 
premises.
Cancellation of 
the license.

<!-- page 59 -->

59A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so 
shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period specified 
in the first notice.
18. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 17 
above.
19. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court for that 
offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, 
read with the Sub-section 153(2) of the said ordinance. Further, after being found guilty of such 
an offense, if the violation continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an 
officer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid 
Section 153 of Urban Council ordinance, read with the Sub-section 153(2) of the said ordinance 
for each day of such violation.
20. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law  ;
             “Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to 
the authority area of the Urban Council,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license 
under this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council 
at that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
"Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages in the food chain,
Penalty
Definitions

<!-- page 60 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
60A
"Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health 
effects,
"Food" means the things produced and kept for sale in the institution for the human 
consumption as food or drinks and the separate things used to prepare food.
"reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
"basic Law" means the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
21. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Schedule
Application to obtain a License to Maintain a food Production Place for the Year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
11. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 

<!-- page 61 -->

61A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
12. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the business mentioned 
above is conducted.
date:-              
                               ……………………………….
                                                                                                                     Signature of the applicant
 
For office use 
revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back. 
date:-         .................................
                                                                                                                               Secretary
Secretary,
recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
date :-         …………………………….
                                                                                                                              revenue Inspector

<!-- page 62 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
62A
Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect of the appli -
cation mentioned in the back.
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                                 Secretary
 
Medical Officer of Health, 
Compliance with by-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a license. 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                 Public Health Inspector
 
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. (If not recommended, 
state the reason.) 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                 Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 63 -->

63A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING  HOTELS
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the operation of hotels within 
the authority area of the Horana Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law relating to Hotels of the Horana  Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a hotel (hereinafter referred to as the premises in some places) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section 5 can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the 
Housing and Urban Development Ordinance and;
 (A)    The material used in all constructions shall not emit toxic substances and shall 
not emit toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where 
organisms cannot be easily retained.
 (b)     The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space to enable the service 
to be performed without interruption. 
(C)    Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent entry of contamination 
substances into food raw material and cooked food.
(d)    Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the internal foods of the 
premises.
 (e)   Things disposed under the internal processing activities of the premises shall 
be arranged with references that will not flow back in any way.
(2) In the food processing area of the premises, 
(A)       Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
(b)     All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergents and disinfectants. 
(C)      The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 64 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
64A
(d)    If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects. 
(E)    Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy flow of air from outside and to 
flow exhaust air out.
(3) For the employees on the premises;
(A) If working as residents, rooms with at least 4 square meters of space per person 
shall be provided with adequate space outside the relevant section for customer service.
(b) Toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate sanitation facilities and shall be 
separated as males and females.
(C) The toilets and bathrooms provided shall be of permanent construction and shall 
be well-constructed and built outside the premises for the customers.
(4) Premises shall have fire safety certificates as applicable and fire safety facilities shall 
be provided in the premises as specified.
(5) All buildings on the premises shall be constructed to allow access to persons with 
disabilities and special needs.
(6) Waste generated in the premises shall be disposed of in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council and if the license holder 
himself disposes of the waste in the premises, the method followed shall be a method 
approved by the Public Health Inspector.
(7) When entering the premises, a specific procedure shall be maintained to verify the 
identity of the entrants and to record it.
(8) Adequate parking space shall be maintained in or near the premises for visitors to the 
premises.
(9) Boards shall be fixed so that customers can know about the facilities and services 
provided on the premises, and if there is a registered business name or a corporate 
name registered with the Sri Lanka Tourism Authority, the relevant registration number 
shall be prominently displayed.
(10) The interior design of the premises shall be designed in a way that is more customer 
friendly and pleasing, and the constructions and fixtures made shall not obstruct to the 
safety of the customer in any way.
(11) Staff employed or to be employed to serve customers on the premises shall be persons 
trained by reputed institutions to provide a professional service.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
Acting according 
to an application.

<!-- page 65 -->

65A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site 
inspections related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If the license holder is not the manager of the institution, the identity information 
requested by the Chairman regarding the manager shall be provided, and it shall be 
provided so whenever changed.
(2) Loudspeakers used for festive occasions, parties or other activities on the premises 
shall be maintained in accordance with environmental regulations and terms so as not 
to disturb others by playing musical instruments.
(3) Adequate parking facilities shall be maintained so that no vehicles come to the premises 
are parked on public access. 
(4) Name, address, identity card number and contact numbers related to all persons comes 
to stay, and if there are information to be maintained specified from time to time by 
the Director of Health Services or the Medical Officer of Health of the authority area 
or the Chairman regarding the persons anticipating services under the health reasons 
in the authority area all such information shall be documented and maintained.
(5) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the regulations made under 
Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(6) room for accommodation, all spaces for accommodators use, latrines and bathrooms 
shall be disinfected before being used by another person after being used by one person 
and latrines and bathrooms shall be disinfected daily even while customers are present.
(7) Whenever there enough facts to suspect that there is a risk of an epidemic in the 
authority area, the body temperature of everyone who comes to stay on the premises 
shall be measured before entering the premises to check whether the body temperature 
is within the specific range by a person who is specifically assigned for that purpose 
and everyone's hands and feet shall be cleaned with disinfectants before entering the 
premises.
(8) All reusable items such as pillowcases, bed sheets, blankets, towels etc., which kept in 
each room for the use of the customers shall not be used for another customer without 
washing and cleaning.
(9) by no means shall not allow more than one adult in a single room, more than two adults 
in a double room, more than three adults in a triple room, or exceeding the maximum 
number of persons when four square meters per person is considered as the minimum 
space when the room can be accommodated by a group, and those over the age of five 
years shall be considered as adults for the purpose in this subsection.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 66 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
66A
(10) Beds inside a room shall be maintained taking into account the extent specified in 
subsection (9) above.
(11) Under no circumstances shall anyone be permitted to lodge with a child except by a 
parent or legal guardian.
(12) No person shall be allowed to sleep in an open area except the rooms on the premises.
(13) No person shall be allowed to stay on the premises if they do not agree to verify their 
identity or are unable to verify their identity, and the information regarding all persons 
staying shall be a statement under their signature.
(14) When it is not an air-conditioned room, all rooms shall be well ventilated and allowed 
to be used after leaving the doors and windows open for some time.
(15) When a regulation under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance comes 
into force in respect of any epidemic situation in the authority area, facilities shall be 
provided the use the rooms in accordance with all the provisions of that regulation.
(16) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(17) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all guidelines 
made by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case 
where a disease is declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of disease ordinance.
(18) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all 
persons who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided 
unless they visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(19) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health 
safety instructions prescribed by the director General of Health Services or the 
Medical Officer of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly 
implemented in the premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be 
satisfied that it is being so.
(20) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(21) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are 
being so.
(22) The interior floor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not 
slip easily, and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards 
mentioning on that regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.

<!-- page 67 -->

67A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(23) drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily.
(24) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain 
of the road or outside area.
(25) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to 
the discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
(26) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the temperature required for cooking 
and refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
(27) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shall be maintained in accordance 
with the following requirements :
(A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-
absorbent material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be 
made of stainless material.
(b)   All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
(C)    Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
(d)    All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitable condition to be used.
(28) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that 
does not harm the taste of the food.
(29) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking 
food and cooked food or similar.
(30) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be thoroughly washed, cleaned 
and used.
(31) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous containers free from 
contamination.
(32) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water.
(33) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from 
any other pipeline.
(34) A specific internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked 
on the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that specifically assigned 
persons shall be employed to regulate it.
(35) Meat and fish brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the 
premises and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used 
without contamination.

<!-- page 68 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
68A
(36) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling food on the premises;
(A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or fingers 
(b) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favorable  use for food. 
(C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
(d) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall always be kept out of 
contact with any food. 
(e) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean and in separate containers.
(F) employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in such a way that their 
activity, usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in 
any way.
(37) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made 
under it or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority 
area as per the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons involved in 
preparing, handling, serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the 
premises in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Officer of Health or 
a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in addition to 
any other provisions of this by-Law.
(38) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises shall be in very clean condition 
and disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning 
shall be of clean condition.
(39) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently 
with disinfectants.
(40) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with disinfectant shall be 
provided in the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption areas of 
the premises and adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises.
(41) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such 
a way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not 
cause contamination of food.
(42) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premises in any way.
(43) employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene 
and shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the medical 
Officer of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records 
shall also be maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. 
Also the health check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
(44) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
(45) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written 
rules applicable to it.

<!-- page 69 -->

69A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(46) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the 
Public Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act 
in accordance with the instructions given by him.
(47) Adequate first aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.
(48) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the 
event of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves 
they are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed 
to closed containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and 
such waste shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and 
instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
(49) Every person who handle food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate 
hygienic clothing.
(50) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections 
or any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
(51) every person involved in handling of food on the event rooms of the premises shall 
not engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the 
nose, which can cause food contamination.
(52) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises.
(53) In the event of any person visits the event rooms of the premises for consumption 
of food or employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable 
or skin disease, the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and 
upon such notification, all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the 
quarantine instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health 
Inspector authorized by him.
(54) When the premises are subjected to the quarantine process, the event rooms of the 
premises shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certificate has been issued by 
the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the quarantine 
period is over and the premises have been completely disinfected.
(55) Health care measures that are implemented on the event rooms of the premises shall 
be prominently displayed on the premises in such a way that everyone who handles 
and consumes food in the premises can learn about the relevant instructions and shall 
acted according to them.
(56) The license holder shall have provided all information regarding the employees working 
on the premises to the Chairman.
12. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 70 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
70A
13. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with all the terms of that order.
14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this  
by-law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder 
informing a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with 
the by-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman 
may grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend 
the time period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period 
granted so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the 
period specified in the first notice.
16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 
15 above.
17. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court 
for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, 
he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 153(2) of the 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation.
18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law,
“Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban Council 
at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license under 
this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at 
that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
Cancellation of 
the license
Power of enter the 
premises
Penalty
Definitions

<!-- page 71 -->

71A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals 
or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
"Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages in the food chain,
"Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health effects,
"Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
 "reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
"basic Law" means the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
19. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Inconsistency 
between texts
Schedule
Application to obtain a License to operate a Hotel for the Year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
date:-              
                ……………………………….
                                                                                                     Signature of the applicant

<!-- page 72 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
72A
For office use 
revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back. 
date:-         .................................
                                                                                                                Secretary
 Secretary,
recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
date :-         …………………………….
                                                                                                                         revenue Inspector
 Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect of the appli -
cation mentioned in the back.
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                              Secretary
 
Medical Officer of Health, 
Compliance with by-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a license. 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                   Public Health Inspector
 Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. (If not recommended, 
state the reason.) 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                             Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 73 -->

73A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   VEGETAbLES   AND   fRUITS   SELLERS
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the vegetables and fruits selling 
places in the authority area of the Horana  Urban Council.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law regarding vegetables and Fruits Selling Places in the 
Horana  Urban Council.
3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Horana Urban Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a vegetables and fruits selling center or a storage center for such 
sale (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under a license obtained from the Chairman 
under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) Permanent constructions related to the premises shall be constructions in accordance with 
the provisions mentioned under the Urban development Authority Act or the Housing 
and Urban development ordinance.
(2) The material used for construction shall be made of materials that do not retain living 
organisms, and permanent constructions shall be made on the premises to prevent the 
entry and retention of pests and fumes.
(3) The premises shall be designed to be easily cleaned and in a way so that water does 
not retain.
(4) The interior of the premises shall be designed so that the nature of the fruits and vegetables 
can be inspected always.
(5) The building, walls of the premises shall be made of washable materials with 
waterproofing so as not to absorb water.
(6) every construction on the premises shall be free of holes cause for the retention of insects.
(7) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept shall be easily disinfected and 
made of non-absorbent materials.
(8) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept shall be inactive to disinfectants 
and cleaning agents. 
(9) If vegetables or fruits are stored or stored and kept on the premises; refrigeration facilities 
shall be in place to maintain the specified temperature.
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 74 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
74A
(10) When keeping vegetables and fruits for sale, refrigeration facilities shall be available 
to maintain it at low temperatures.
(11) There shall be a ceiling or concrete surface above the place where vegetables and fruits 
are stored or kept.
(12) The premises shall be air conditioned or windows and other openings shall be set so 
that air can be flow well.
(13) The interior parts of the premises shall be constructed to be easily cleaned.
(14) The water required for the premises shall be supplied from within or outside the premises 
and shall be equipped with storage facilities for continuous water supply.
(15) The premises shall have a separate place for washing vegetables and fruits and shall be 
constructed so that water does not retain in the premises.
(16) Internal drains of the premises shall be directed to a soakage pit or a septic tank and if 
there is a source of water in the premises of the respective soakage pit or septic tank, it 
shall be set at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.
(17) For the employees on the premises; 
(i) If staying as residents, there shall be rooms with adequate sanitary facilities 
for accommodation. 
(ii) Latrine facilities shall be provided as appropriate.
(18) Platforms for keeping or storing vegetables and fruits in the premises shall be set at a 
height of at least 28 cm above the ground.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the regulations made under 
Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees
validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license

<!-- page 75 -->

75A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all terms made 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case where an 
epidemic is declared applicable under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, shall not related to the transactions unless 
they visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer 
of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in 
the premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisfied that it 
is being so.
(5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(6) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain 
of the road or outside area.
(7) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
(8) Light bulbs fixed above the vegetables or fruits for sale or stored shall be of a safe 
condition and all of them shall be covered.
(9) disposal of waste collected in the premises shall be done in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Urban Council and in accordance with the 
applicable written laws in this regard.
(10) If the waste collected at the premises is managed by the license holder himself, it shall 
be in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Public Health Inspector or the 
Medical Officer of Health.
(11) When using weighing equipment for the sale of vegetables and fruits in the premises, 
it shall be done in accordance with the prescribed standards.
(12) If prepare fruits to make it easier to eat or to prepare fruit juices on the premises, 
everyone who does so shall not engage in any activity such as fruit preparation or fruit 
juice preparation without the use of gloves and hats. 
(13) When preparing fruit for consumption, shall always use drinking water and ice made 
from that water.
(14) Preparation of fruits for consumption shall not be done in advance except in the presence 
of consumers.
(15) Vegetables and fruits shall be kept for sale so that they do not mix with rotten vegetables 
and fruits.
(16) The premises shall be kept in a clean condition at all times and no activities shall be 
carried out on the premises in such a manner as to cause any contamination of vegetables 
or fruits in the premises for any reason.

<!-- page 76 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
76A
(17) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons working on the premises shall 
maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Officer 
of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in 
addition to any other provisions of this by-Law.
(18) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such 
a way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not 
cause contamination of vegetables and fruits.
(19) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the premises in any way.
(20) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
(21) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their hands frequently using 
disinfectants.
(22) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed 
containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and such waste 
shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and instructions 
implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
(23) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections 
or any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
(24) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic, he shall not be allowed to the premises in any event.
(25) employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and upon such notification, 
all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions 
given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
12. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
13. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
14. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
on-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples.
Cancellation of 
the license.

<!-- page 77 -->

77A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so 
shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period specified 
in the first notice.
15. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 14 
above.
16. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court 
for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council 
ordinance, Chapter 255. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, 
he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 153(2) of the 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255 for each day of such violation.
17. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law,
“Council” means Horana Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Horana Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to 
the authority area of the Urban Council,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a 
license under this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council 
at that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of 
the food,
"reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
"basic Law" means the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255.
18. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Penalty
Definitions
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 78 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
78A
Schedule
Application to obtain a License to Maintain a Vegetables/fruits Trade Stall for the Year ......................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the trade mentioned above 
is conducted.
date:- 
       ……………………………….
                                                                                           Signature of the applicant

<!-- page 79 -->

79A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
For office use 
revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back. 
date:-         .................................
                                                                                                                                 Secretary
Secretary,
recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
date :-                  …………………………….
                                                                                                                                       revenue Inspector 
Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect of the  
application mentioned in the back.
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                                Secretary
Medical Officer of Health, 
Compliance with by-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a license. 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                    Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. (If not recommended, 
state the reason.) 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                 Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 80 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
80A
bY-LAw 
REGULARIZING   DISPOSAL   Of   HAZARDOUS   wASTE
1. This by-law is enacted to recommend disposal strategies to prevent the disposal of health 
safety equipment used by the public to the environment being hazardous to public health in an 
epidemic situation within the authority area of the Horana Urban Council.
02. This by-law is cited as the by-law to control the disposal of waste hazardous to the public 
health of the Horana Urban Council.
03. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said ordinance.
04. In the event of the use of masks, gloves or any other protective wear (hereinafter referred to 
as equipment in some places) by the people of the authority area in accordance with the terms 
and conditions laid down by the Chairman under the instructions of the Medical Officer of 
Health to control an epidemic situation that has been declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance or any of the regulations 
made under it, the disposal of such items after use shall be subject to the provisions herein.
05. All public or private premises shall have separate closed garbage containers for the disposal of 
gloves, masks or any other protective wear used by the public for health safety purposes or at 
any instance as referred to in Section 4 above relating to the authority area.
06. No gloves, masks and other such items shall be disposed by any person other than a specifically 
separated garbage container mentioned under Section 5 above, subject to the circumstances 
referred to in under Section 4 of this by-law within the authority area.
07. It is the responsibility and duty of the authority of the premises to maintain adequate garbage 
disposal containers for the disposal of gloves, masks and other such items used in all public 
premises in the event of a situation referred to in under Section 4 of this by-law.
08. No person shall mix or dispose any waste other than the waste specified under this By-law to 
a garbage container maintained for the purpose of this by-law.
09. disposal or dumping of waste collected under this by-law shall be carried out only in accordance 
with the procedure recommended by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Officer 
of Health, and the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council shall be 
publicized within the authority area.
10. It is an offense for any person to act in violation of the provisions under Sections 6 and 8 of 
this by-law, and after being convicted by the magistrate's Court, shall be subject to a penalty 
under Sub-Section 153 (2) of the Urban Council ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Section 
153 of the said ordinance.
11. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
“Council” means the Horana  Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Urban Council at that 
time or perform the duties of that position,
Penalty.
Prevention of 
mixing.
responsibility 
of the public 
authority.
That specific 
garbage bins shall 
be maintained.
Applicability.
Short title.
Definition.

<!-- page 81 -->

81A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
"Medical Officer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to 
the authority area of the Urban Council.
"Authority Area" means the Horana  Urban council area,
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this by-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
eoG 11 - 0242
Inconsistency 
between texts.
PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL  bY  LAwS  Of  wESTERN   PROVINCE  
Notification under Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15, of 1987, read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
I, roshan Goonethileke, the Governor of the Western Province, in terms of the powers vested in me under Section 123 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15, if 1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 
12, of 1989, do here by notify that my approval has been given for the by-laws, described in the Schedule herein under, made 
by the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of the Sub Section 122(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15, of 1987 read 
with Section 126 of the aforesaid Act.
 
Roshan Goonethileke, 
 rWP and bAr vSv USP PHd FIme  (Sri Lanka) ndc psc 
 marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force
 The Governor
 Western Province.
on 16th day of November, 2022.
At Governor's Office - Western Province,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 82 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
82A
 Schedules
bY-LAw fOR SETTING STANDARDS TO bE fOLLOwED REGARDING SANITARY 
REqUIREMENTS fOR PRIV ATE MARKETS OR fAIRS
1. This by-law is enacted to set standards to be followed regarding the sanitary requirements for 
private markets or fairs within the authority area of the  Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law on the setting of Sanitary Standards for Fairs of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xii) of the said Act.
4. The extent of the land (hereinafter referred to as the premises) on which each market, including 
a public market and a private market (hereinafter referred to as market), which is located within 
the jurisdiction of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the authority area) 
shall be specified, and it shall be a premises maintained and prepared under a name board for the 
same purpose.
5. All markets located within the authority area shall be maintained in accordance with the following 
standards to maintain proper sanitary conditions :
(1) The premises shall be zoned mainly for the exchange of goods brought for sale in vehicles 
as meat and fish, vegetables and fruits and other goods and for the washing of fruits and 
vegetables.
(2) Latrines in the premises shall be adequate for both men and women outside the zones 
referred to in Sub-Section (1) above and shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit by 
a specific drain so that the water used therein shall not flow into any zone of the premises.
(3) Zones within the premises shall be numbered and displayed in a map at the entrance to the 
premises in order for the easy attention of the visitors to the premises.
(4) Permanent constructions within the premises shall be constructions built in accordance 
with the provisions of the written law to that effect.
(5) every construction on the premises shall be well constructed and anything or any material 
used for that purpose shall not release anything which contaminates food.
(6) Necessary separations shall be made to prevent cross-contamination in the premises.
(7) Arrangements shall be made to prevent the spread of animals such as dogs and cats in the 
premises, and all construction surfaces shall be prepared as inanimate surfaces.
(8) A parking zone shall be established to prevent contamination of things brought in, things 
kept in the premises for sale from any substance, liquid or gas releases or leaks from any 
vehicle entering the premises.
(9) The people deployed to unload, move the goods or the people work for such purposes shall 
be pre-identified for the purpose and the information for their identities shall be maintained 
by the market keeper documenting and updating the information.
(10) The market keeper shall document the identities of those who come to the premises for 
trade and those who come for their support and maintain the information updated.
Short title.
That a market 
shall comply with 
sanitary standards.

<!-- page 83 -->

83A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(11) The floor of the premises shall be prepared so that water does not stagnate and the internal 
drains shall be arranged so that water can flow easily.
(12) Septic tank or soakage pit shall be adequately constructed in the premises to allow 
wastewater to flow, and any soakage pit or soakage pit in the premises shall be located 
at a distance of at least 15.25 m, if there is a water source without an external opening.
(13) All stands set up to keep goods for trade within the premises shall have a washable surface 
and each surface shall be disinfected and cleaned prior to use.
(14) The interior layout of the premises shall be arranged with a reasonable distance to walk 
easily. 
(15) Goods and materials sold on the premises shall be kept out of direct contact with the ground 
and shall be placed on a stand or platform at a certain height above the ground.
(16) Closed garbage bins shall be set up in each zone sufficient for the temporary disposal of 
waste collected in the premises, and the waste shall be disposed only to the appropriate 
garbage bin where it should be disposed of according to its nature.
(17) Traders engaged in trading in the premises or customers shall not spit on the premises.
(18) No cooking or lighting shall be done on the premises and if cooked food is taken out and 
sold, all such food shall be stored in airtight containers and all food shall be sold with 
gloves and kitchen tongs.
(19) When disposing the gloves, masks used on the premises; Specific closed garbage bins shall 
be adequately maintained for their disposal; relevant disposals shall be done accordingly.
(20) Within the area where the fish is sold on the premises;
(A)   Stands for the sale of fish shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
(b)   The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit through properly 
constructed closed drains.
(C)    If fish is stored, it should be refrigerated and stored at a temperature of two degrees 
Celsius or less.
(D)     Light bulbs and fittings hanging above the fish for sale shall be secured and covered.
(E)    No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above the place where the fish is 
kept for sale and in contact with the fish and no contamination of the fish shall occur 
in any way.
(F)    Sewage collected during the sale of fish shall be temporarily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed in 
accordance with a waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
or in accordance with the instructions of the Public Health Inspector. 
(G)     Refrigerated fish kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.

<!-- page 84 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
84A
(H)   What is used for packaging in the sale of fish shall not be a printed paper or a packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the fish.
(I)    All fishmongers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
(J)    All fishmongers shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling fish.
(K)    Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and cleaned.
(21) Within the area where the meat is sold on the premises;
(A)    Stands for the sale of meat shall be made of permanent materials and shall be cleaned 
and used before use with soap or disinfectant.
(b)   The water used shall be directed to a septic tank or soakage pit through properly 
prepared closed drains.
(C)    If meat is stored, it should be refrigerated and meat should be stored at a temperature 
of two degrees Celsius or less.
(D)    Light bulbs and fittings hanging above the meat for sale shall be secured and covered.
(e)    No substance, liquid or gas shall be leaked at or above the place where the meat is 
kept for sale and in contact with the meat and the contamination of the meat shall 
not occur in any way.
(F)    Sewage collected during the sale of meat shall be temporarily collected in closed 
garbage bins so as not to mix with other wastes on the premises and disposed in 
accordance with the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya 
Sabha or as per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
(G)     refrigerated meat kept for sale shall not be re-refrigerated under ambient temperature.
(H)    What is used for packaging in the sale of meat shall not be printed paper or packaging 
material that comes in direct contact with the meat.
(I)    All meat sellers shall not be infected with any infectious disease or skin disease.
(J)     All engaged in the sale of meat shall wear appropriate clean clothes while selling meat.
(K)    Weighing equipment shall be of proper standard and shall be disinfected and cleaned.
(22) Within the area where vegetables and fruits are sold on the premises;
(A) Sales locations shall be well ventilated and well lighted artificially or naturally.
(B)   No washing of fruits and vegetables shall be done on the same place; vegetables and 
fruits washed and cleaned in a separate place on the premises for this purpose shall 
be kept for sale.

<!-- page 85 -->

85A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(C)    No rotten vegetables or fruits shall be mixed with good quality vegetables and fruits.
(d)   A person suffering from any infectious disease, infected or a person suffering from 
a skin disease shall not engage in selling activities.
(E)   Rotten fruits and vegetables shall be disposed only in specifically designated containers.
(F)    No person engaged in sale shall eat food, smoke, spit, chew betel and other items, 
cough, sneeze or touch the nose in such a manner as to contaminate vegetables or 
fruits and the hygiene of vegetables and fruits shall be maintained.
 (G) The water used to prevent drying of vegetables and fruits shall be drinking water 
and the use of any prohibited chemical substance in fruits and vegetables shall not 
be allowed.
(23) When the Chairman has made an order in this regard on the instructions of the medical 
Officer of Health that any epidemic situation has arisen in an authority area or when any 
of the provisions applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
or any of the regulations made therein shall come into force, the following actions shall 
be properly implemented;
(A)   That facilities shall be provided for cleaning hands at specific places in the premises 
and action will be taken accordingly.
(b)   That the prevailing conditions and regulations regarding the use of public toilets in 
the premises shall be properly implemented.
(C)   That the disinfection process to be carried out in the premises on the instructions of 
the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector shall be carried out in 
accordance with the recommended schedule.
(d)   That all operations on the premises shall be carried out in accordance with the 
instructions given to the users of the premises to protect social distancing.
(e)   That action will be taken accordingly when the entry of vehicles into the premises 
is restricted.
(F)   That notices have been circulated in the premises regarding the health practices to be 
followed from time to time and that action will be taken accordingly.
(O)   That the masks and gloves used in the premises are disposed without mixing with 
other garbage.
6. In order to maintain a market in accordance with the standards set forth in Section 5 of 
this by-law, all actions shall be taken by a keeper of the common market in the case of a 
common market and by the license holder in the case of a private market.
7. The Chairman or a Public Health Inspector or an authorized officer shall inspect whether 
the premises are maintained in accordance with the standards set forth in this by-law.
8. When any market is maintained in violation of or  not complies with the standards set out 
in Section 5 above; a written notice issued by the Chairman may specify a time period to 
be compliance with the standards.
Inspecting power.
Provide a specific 
time period by a 
notice.

<!-- page 86 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
86A
9. Failure to comply with a notice issued under Section 8 above shall be an offense and shall 
be punishable under Sub-Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, 
after being convicted by a magistrate Court.
10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
"Council" means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Chairman" means to the person who holds the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position.
“Authorized Officer” means any officer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food or 
food chain; 
"Hygiene" means all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages of a food chain.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this 
By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Penalty.
Definition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
bY-LAw   REGARDING   RECEPTION   HALLS         
1. This by-law is enacted to protect the public health under the activities of the reception halls 
maintained in the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha and regulate, supervise 
and control such places. 
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law regarding reception Halls in the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a reception hall except under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the 
Housing and Urban Development Ordinance and;
Short title.
Legal Power
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 87 -->

87A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(A) If the authority area is subject to zoning, the relevant constructions shall be located 
accordingly.
 
(B) The Certificate of Conformity shall be obtained prior to construction use. 
(2) All constructions shall be well made of permanent construction materials.
(3) The reception halls shall have the necessary reservations, divisions and placements to 
prevent cross-contamination, and the interior shall be designed to maintain adequate 
distance.
(4) Adequate space shall be maintained inside the halls so that operations can be carried 
out without interruption.
(5) Premises including buildings shall be designed to prevent the entry and retention of 
pests and contamination substances.
(6) The premises shall be designed to facilitate easy and proper cleaning and to facilitate 
proper supervision of food hygiene.
(7) The stages in the premises shall be of proper standard and the halls shall be designed 
to absorb internal sound.
(8) The interior of the hall shall be air-conditioned or have windows that can be opened to 
not less than one-fifteenth of the area of the hall leaving space for adequate ventilation.
(9) Adequate lighting in halls shall be arranged in a natural or artificial way.
(10) Doors shall have a smooth and non-absorbent surface and shall be fixed in such a way 
that automatically closed when appropriate.
(11) Fire protection equipment shall be fixed in all halls in the premises.
(12) There shall be no fungus growth or leakage from any of the fixtures or structures 
installed in the premises.
(13) Window openings in the premises shall be easy to clean and shall be fitted with nets to 
prevent insects from entering.
(14) There shall be separate latrine facilities for customers and employees, which shall be 
maintained separately for both males and females.
(15) buildings on the premises shall be made with access facilities for the disabled.
(16) Closed drains with slopes preventing sedimentation shall be installed as not to retain 
wastewater and sewage, and all drains shall be directed to a septic tank, soakage pit or 
central treatment unit constructed in accordance with an approved plan, and an approved 
method shall be followed through a water trap or plan to prevent contamination between 
the premises and the final disposal.
(17) The waste collected in the premises shall be handed over in accordance with a waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or a specific arrangement 
shall be made for the disposal of waste in accordance with a procedure prescribed by 
the Medical Officer of Health or Public Health Inspector.

<!-- page 88 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
88A
(18) drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use in the premises and shall be 
stored in containers under specified standards.
(19) Facilities made with stainless steel or other suitable material for hand washing shall 
be supplied on the premises. 
(20) In the cooking and processing area on the premises, 
(A)  Floor and walls shall be made of washable and non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
(b)   All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergents and disinfectants.
(C)  The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
(d)   If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects.
(E)   Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy flow of air from outside and to 
flow exhaust air out.
(21) In relation to the place where food is served to the customers on the premises;
(A) The space for serving food shall be prepared with more space so that food can be 
obtained with adequate distance. 
(b) When food is consumed in an open space, it shall be designed to get well ventilated 
and prevent birds and other animals from entering.
(22) Adequate parking lots shall be provided for visitors to the premises.
(23) For the employees on the premises,
(A)     If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the food processing and 
storage area. 
(b)    rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meters of space is available 
for each employee to sleep. 
(C)    Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided. 
(24) The premises shall be equipped with automatic generators of sufficient capacity to be 
utilized in case of emergency power failure.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
Issuing a license.

<!-- page 89 -->

89A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site 
inspections related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until december 31 of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all guidelines made 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case where a 
disease is declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of disease ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they 
visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer 
of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in 
the premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisfied that it 
is being so.
(5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are 
being so.
(7) The interior floor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip 
easily, and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning 
on that regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.
(8) drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily.
(9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain 
of the road or outside area.
(10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to 
the discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
Fees for a license.
 Inspection fees.
validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 90 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
90A
(11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the temperature required for cooking 
and refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
(12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shall be maintained in accordance 
with the following requirements.
(A)   All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-
absorbent material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be 
made of stainless material.
(b)    All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
(C)     Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
(d)     All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitable condition to be used.
(13) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that 
does not harm the taste of the food.
(14) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking 
food and cooked food or similar.
(15) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be thoroughly washed, cleaned 
and used.
(16) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous containers free from 
contamination.
(17) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water.
(18) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from 
any other pipeline.
(19) A specific internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked 
on the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that specifically assigned 
persons shall be employed to regulate it.
(20) Meat and fish brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the 
premises and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used 
without contamination.
(21) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling food on the premises;
(A)    Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or fingers 
(b)    Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favorable  use for food. 
(C)     A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.
(d)    The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall always be kept out of 
contact with any food. 
(e)      All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean and in separate containers.
(F)     employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in such a way that 
their activity, usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation 
in any way.

<!-- page 91 -->

91A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(22) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made 
under it or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority 
area as per the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons involved in 
preparing, handling, serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the 
premises in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Officer of Health or a 
Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any 
other provisions of this by-Law. 
(23) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises shall be in very clean condition 
and disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall 
be of clean condition.
(24) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently 
with disinfectants.
(25) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with disinfectant shall be provided 
in the processing area of the premises and in the food consumption areas of the premises 
and adequate lighting shall be maintained in the premises.
(26) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such 
a way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not 
cause contamination of food.
(27) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premises in any way.
(28) employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene 
and shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the medical 
Officer of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records 
shall also be maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. 
Also the health check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
(29) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
(30) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written 
rules applicable to it.
(31) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the 
Public Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act 
in accordance with the instructions given by him.
(32) Adequate first aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.
(33) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed 
containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and such waste 
shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and instructions 
implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
(34) Every person who handle food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene during 
handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate 
hygienic clothing.

<!-- page 92 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
92A
(35) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections 
or any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
(36) every person involved in handling of food on the premises where the reception halls 
are located shall not engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, 
or touching the nose, which can cause food contamination.
(37) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises.
(38) In the event of any person visits the premises for consumption of food or employee 
serving on the premises of a reception hall contracted an infectious, transmittable or 
skin disease, the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and upon 
such notification, all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine 
instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector 
authorized by him.
(39) When the premises where the reception halls are located are subjected to the quarantine 
process, the premises shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certificate has 
been issued by the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating 
that the quarantine period is over and the premises have been completely disinfected.
(40) Health care measures that are implemented on the premises shall be prominently 
displayed on the premises in such a way that everyone who handles and consumes 
food in the reception halls can learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted 
according to them.
(41) The license holder shall have provided all information regarding the employees working 
on the premises to the Chairman.
12. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
13. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with all the terms of that order.
14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted 
so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period 
specified in the first notice.
Power to enter the 
premises.

<!-- page 93 -->

93A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 
15 above.
17. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court for 
that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation continues 
even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, he shall be 
subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for each day of such violation.
18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
 
“Council” means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license 
under this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
at that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals 
or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
"Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages in the food chain,
"Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health effects,
"Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, 
processing, selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
"reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work,
 "basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Cancellation of 
the license.
Penalty.
Definitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts.

<!-- page 94 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
94A
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the reception hall is located : - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:-  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11.  Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
 (Copies should be attached)
I, certify that the above information is true and correct.
date:-              
                               ……………………………….
                                                                                                     Signature of the applicant
For office use
revenue Inspector,
I, kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in relation 
to the application mentioned on the back.
date: -         .................................
                                                                                                                             Secretary
Secretary,
I, recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
date :-         …………………………….
                                                                                                                     revenue Inspector
Medical Officer of Health,
I, kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in relation 
to the application mentioned on the back.
date:-                                                            .................................
                                                                                                                                Secretary

<!-- page 95 -->

95A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
Medical Officer of Health,
eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I report to recommend the issuance of licenses.
date :-                                                          .................................
                                                                                                                      Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date:-                                                          .................................
                                                                                                                    Medical Officer of Health
bY-LAw ON CONTROLLING THE DISPOSAL Of wASTE HAZARDOUS 
TO PUbLIC HEALTH
1. This by-law is enacted to recommend disposal strategies to prevent the disposal of health 
safety equipment used by the pubic to the environment being hazardous to public health in an 
epidemic situation within the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. This by-law is cited as the by-law to control the disposal of waste hazardous to the public 
health of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
04. In the event of the use of masks, gloves or any other protective wear (hereinafter referred to 
as equipment in some places) by the people of the authority area in accordance with the terms 
and conditions laid down by the Chairman under the instructions of the Medical Officer of 
Health to control an epidemic situation that has been declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any 
part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been 
declared under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance or any of the regulations 
made under it, the disposal of such items after use shall be subject to the provisions herein.
5. All public or private premises shall have separate closed garbage containers for the disposal 
of gloves, masks or any other protective wear used by the public for health sefety purposes or 
at any instance as referred to in Section 4 above relating to the authority area.
6. No gloves, masks and other such items shall be disposed by any person other than a specifically 
separated garbage container mentioned under Section 5 above, subject to the circumstances 
referred to in under Section 4 of this by-law within the authority area.
7. It is the responsibility and duty of the authority of the premises to maintain adequate garbage 
disposal containers for the disposal of gloves, masks and other such items used in all public 
premises in the event of a situation referred to in under Section 4 of this by-law.
8. No person shall mix or dispose any waste other than the waste specified under this By-law to 
a garbage container maintained for the purpose of this by-law.
Short title.
Applicability.
That specific 
garbage bins shall 
be maintained.
responsibility 
of the public 
authority.
Prevention of 
mixing.

<!-- page 96 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
96A
9. disposal or dumping of waste collected under this by-law shall be carried out only in accordance 
with the procedure recommended by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Officer 
of Health, and the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be 
publicized within the authority area.
10. It is an offense for any person to act in violation of the provisions under Sections 6 and 8 of 
this by-law, and after being convicted by the magistrate's Court, shall be subject to a penalty 
under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 of the said ordinance.
11. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law,
“Council” means the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha at that time or perform the duties of that position,
"Medical Officer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant 
to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Authority Area" means the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha area,
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Penalty.
Definition.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
bY-LAw   REGARDING   fOOD   PRODUCTION   PLACES
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, monitor, inspect and control food production places within 
the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law regarding Food Production Places of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a place where food is produced commercially for human 
consumption (hereinafter referred to as the premises in some places) except under a license 
obtained from the Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
Short title.
Legal power.
That a license 
shall be obtained.
Applying for a 
License.

<!-- page 97 -->

97A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by 
the Chairman unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 or the 
Housing and Urban Development Ordinance and;
(A)    The material used in all constructions shall not emit toxic substances and shall 
not emit toxic gases, and all constructions shall be made up of surfaces where 
organisms cannot be easily retained.
(b)    The internal layout shall be designed with adequate space to enable the service 
to be performed without interruption. 
(C)    Shall be designed with a protective layout to prevent entry of contamination 
substances into food raw material and cooked food.
(d)    Shall be designed to check the hygienic conditions of the internal foods of the 
premises.
 (e)    Things disposed under the internal processing activities of the premises shall be 
arranged with references that will not flow back in any way.
(2) In the food processing area of the premises, 
(A)        Floor and walls shall be made of washable, non-slip and non-absorbent materials.
(b)       All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned detergents and disinfectants. 
(C)        The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation and to prevent fungus 
formation and cracking.
(d)        If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be shielded with covers 
prevent entering insects. 
(E)       Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy flow of air from outside and to 
flow exhaust air out.
(3) ensure that air conditioners operate at adequate temperatures when adequate ventilation 
is provided in the premises or air conditioned, and all air conditioning systems shall be 
designed to prevent air from returning.
 
(4) For the employees on the premises; 
(A) If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate sanitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the food preparation, food 
production or ingredients storage area. 
(b) rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meters of space is available 
for each employee to sleep. 
(C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided for both females and 
males.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 98 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
98A
(5) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed so that customers can order 
food with adequate space with physical distancing when required.
(6) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers.
(7) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of sufficient capacity shall be 
available to be utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply 
failure.
(8) Internal drains and waste discharged from the premises shall be directed to a septic tank 
or a soakage pit and if that soakage pit or septic tank is in a source of water, it shall be 
at a distance more than 15.25 meters away.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site 
inspections related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein :
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all terms made 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case where an 
epidemic is declared applicable under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provided unless they 
visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees.
validity period.
Conditions 
relevant to a 
license.

<!-- page 99 -->

99A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer 
of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in 
the premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisfied that it 
is being so.
(5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectant and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are 
being so.
(7) The interior floor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip 
easily, and if it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning 
on that regard shall be placed in such a place visible to the customers.
(8) drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with 
disinfectants twice daily.
(9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain 
of the road or outside area.
(10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to 
the discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
(11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the temperature required for cooking 
and refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so.
(12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shall be maintained in accordance 
with the following requirements.
(A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shall be made of a non-
absorbent material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of 
stainless material.
(b) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to be easily cleaned.
(C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials 
and shall have lids.
(d) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitable condition to be used.
(13) If food is to be distributed outside the premises during production, there shall be a 
specific designated place for it.
(14) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that 
does not harm the taste of the food.
(15) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking 
food and cooked food or similar.
(16) Premises shall have water storage facilities and the relevant containers shall be stainless.

<!-- page 100 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
100A
(17) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be thoroughly washed, cleaned 
and used.
(18) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous containers free from 
contamination.
(19) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water.
(20) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from 
any other pipeline.
(21) A specific internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked 
on the premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that specifically assigned 
persons shall be employed to regulate it.
(22) Meat and fish brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the 
premises and shall always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used 
without contamination.
(23) If an order has been issued that all persons should wear masks when socializing when 
an epidemic situation has been declared in the authority area under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it or due to the risk 
of an epidemic in the authority area, any person not wearing a face mask shall not be 
allowed to enter the premises for transactions.
(24) everyone involved in food production shall use hats when involved in production 
activities.
(25) Food for sale on the premises shall not be kept in such a way as to cause contamination, 
and all activities such as serving food, assembling for takeaway, etc., shall be carried 
out under a specific procedure using appropriate gloves.
(26) All persons involved in serving, usage or assembling food on the premises;
(A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or fingers, 
(b) Under no circumstances shall money be used while working,
(C) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favorable  use for food,
(d)  A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands,
(e)  The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall always be kept out of 
contact with any food, 
(F) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept thoroughly clean and in separate 
containers,
 
(G) employees shall work to use, assemble food in such a way that their activity, usage 
does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way,
(H)  What is taken for food wrapping shall not be a source of food contamination in 
any way,

<!-- page 101 -->

101A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(27) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made 
under it or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority 
area as per the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons involved in 
preparing, usage, serving, or assembling food on the premises shall maintain the premises 
in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public 
Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other 
provisions of this by-Law.
(28) (A) Any work related to food production on the premises shall not be open to a public 
road or public space or shall not be done in a space where air flows easily from 
such a public road or open space for the general public, and food production 
activities shall take place in an enclosed space within the premises.
(b)  Chimneys and absorbent fans shall be installed so that hot air and steam generated 
in the closed space for food production can flow easily.
(C) Noise generated from any approved activity in food production shall not be a 
disturbance in any way to the public or consumers. 
(29) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises shall be in very clean condition 
and disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels used for cleaning shall 
be of clean condition.
(30) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premises shall be cleaned frequently 
with disinfectants.
(31) All cooked food that can be easily spoiled among the cooked food on the premises shall 
be kept at a temperature not exceeding four degrees Celsius or else below 60 degrees 
Celsius except in the following cases. Occasions where it is not, shall be as follows :
(A)  In cases where the entire collection is not exposed or displayed for sale for more 
than two hours or
(B) When preparation and serving are done in an approximate time period.
(32) Pastries, patties, savories, pizza and similar food which include cooked meat or fish 
which are consumed in the condition where there are normally sold on the premises 
shall be kept in containers with covers.
(33) Milk for use on the premises shall be kept in a refrigerator at a temperature not exceeding 
seven degrees Celsius.
(34) Pesticide materials kept on the premises shall be kept in a locked container at a specific 
place on the premises.
(35) The area for employee facilities in the premises shall be with adequate sanitary facilities 
and shall be spacious and latrines for both males and females shall be maintained in 
accordance with sanitary standards.
(36) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such 
a way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not 
cause contamination of food.

<!-- page 102 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
102A
(37) Cleaning activities on the premises shall be carried out on a regular schedule subject 
to the following:
(A) A specific task assignment shall be maintained to adequately clean all sections of 
the institution, and to prioritize the cleaning and application of disinfectants in the 
specific areas described in this By-law.
(b) It shall be the work of the license holder to make sure that the work under (A) 
above is carried out precisely.
(C)  relevant cleaning activities shall be done to prevent dust during preparation and 
assembling of food in the premises.
(d) All utensils used in food preparation shall be maintained so that parts of cooked 
food do not remain in any way.
(e) The water used for cleaning, detergents and disinfectants shall be washed away so 
that it does not remain on the containers in any way.
(F) The ceiling, walls, etc., of the premises shall be maintained so that no insects remain. 
(38) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the premises in any way.
(39) employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene 
and shall be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the medical 
Officer of Health to check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant records 
shall also be maintained so that they can be inspected at any time within the premises. 
Also the health check-ups on them shall be both clinical and epidemiological.
(40) A health monitoring system shall be set up regarding the employees working on the 
premises and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
(41) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the written 
rules applicable to it.
(42) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the 
Public Health Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act 
in accordance with the instructions given by him.
(43) Prior to commencing work on the premises, all persons working on the premises shall 
not engage in cooking and assembling food without adequate sanitation after using the 
toilet and after contact with dirt, and everyone who engaged in work so shall wear a 
clean and pocket-free apron.
(44) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their hands frequently using 
disinfectants.
(45) Adequate first aid facilities shall be provided on the premises.
(46) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed 
containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and such waste 
shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and instructions 
implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.

<!-- page 103 -->

103A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(47) Every person involved in usage of food on the premises shall maintain maximum 
hygiene during handling of food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and 
appropriate hygienic clothing.
(48) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections 
or any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
(49) every person involved in usage of food on the premises shall not engage in activities 
such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, which can cause 
food contamination.
(50) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic he shall not be entered to the premises.
(51) If an employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin 
disease, the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and upon such 
notification, all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine 
instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector 
authorized by him.
(52) The license holder shall take every step to maintain the premises in such a way not to 
happen or not to do any activity in any way that could cause food contamination during 
food production.
(53) The license holder shall have provided all information regarding the employees working 
on the premises to the Chairman.
12. (1) It shall also be lawful for the Chairman to grade a premises relevant to this by-law 
according to the recommendations of the Medical Officer of Health, taking into account 
the quality when fulfilling the conditions under this By-law.
(2) Where the Chairman has graded under this section, the grade of the premises for the 
year relevant to the license and a certificate issued by the Chairman shall be displayed 
on the premises as visible to the public.
13. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
14. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
15. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with all the terms of that order.
16. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
Grading the 
premises.
on-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples.
Power to enter the 
premises.

<!-- page 104 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
104A
17. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this  
by-law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder 
informing a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with 
the by-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted 
so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period 
specified in the first notice.
18. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 
17 above.
19. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court for 
that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation continues 
even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, he shall be 
subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for each day of such violation.
20. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
“Council” means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical 
Officer of Health Division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant 
to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a 
license under this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of 
the food,
"Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and 
suitability of food at all stages in the food chain,
"Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse 
health effects,
Cancellation of 
the license.
Penalty.
Definitions.

<!-- page 105 -->

105A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
"Food" means the things produced and kept for sale in the institution for the human 
consumption as food or drinks and the separate things used to prepare food.
"reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
"basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 .
21. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Inconsistency 
between texts.
Schedule
Application to obtain a License to Maintain a food Production Place for the Year...........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
10. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
11. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address :-
 II. National Identity Card Number :-
 III. Telephone Number  :-  Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
12. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the business mentioned 
above is conducted.
date:-              
                                ……………………………….,
                                                                                                                        Signature of the applicant

<!-- page 106 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
106A
 For office use 
revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back. 
date:-         .................................,
                                                                                                                                            Secretary.
Secretary,
recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
date :-         …………………………….,
                                                                                                                                          revenue Inspector.
Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect of the appli -
cation mentioned in the back.
date :-                             .................................,
                                                                                                                                              Secretary.
Medical Officer of Health, 
Compliance with by-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a license. 
date :-                             .................................,
                                                                                                                                 Public Health Inspector.
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. (If not recommended, 
state the reason.) 
date :-                             .................................,
                                                                                                                                  Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 107 -->

107A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw REGARDING  VEGETAbLES AND fRUITS SELLING PLACES
1. This by-law is enacted to supervise, monitor, inspect and control vegetables and fruits selling 
places  in  the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law regarding vegetables and fruits selling Places of the 
Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a vegetables and fruits selling center or a storage centre 
for such sale (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under a license obtained from the 
Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) Permanent constructions related to the premises shall be constructions in accordance with 
the provisions mentioned under the Urban development Authority Act or the Housing 
and Urban development ordinance.
(2) The material used for construction shall be made of materials that do not retain living 
organisms, and permanent constructions shall be made on the premises to prevent the 
entry and retention of pests and fumes.
(3) The premises shall be designed to be easily cleaned and in a way so that water does 
not retain.
(4) The interior of the premises shall be designed so that the nature of the fruits and vegetables 
can be inspected always.
(5) The building, walls of the premises shall be made of washable materials with 
waterproofing so as not to absorb water.
(6) every construction on the premises shall be free of holes cause for the retention of insects.
(7) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept shall be easily disinfected and 
made of non-absorbent materials.
(8) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept shall be inactive to disinfectants 
and cleaning agents. 
(9) If vegetables or fruits are stored or stored and kept on the premises; refrigeration facilities 
shall be in place to maintain the specified temperature.
(10) When keeping vegetables and fruits for sale, refrigeration facilities shall be available 
to maintain it at low temperatures.
Short title.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions for a 
license.

<!-- page 108 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
108A
(11) There shall be a ceiling or concrete surface above the place where vegetables and fruits 
are stored or kept.
(12) The premises shall be air conditioned or windows and other openings shall be set so 
that air can be flow well.
(13) The interior parts of the premises shall be constructed to be easily cleaned.
(14) The water required for the premises shall be supplied from within or outside the premises 
and shall be equipped with storage facilities for continuous water supply.
(15) The premises shall have a separate place for washing vegetables and fruits and shall be 
constructed so that water does not retain in the premises.
(16) Internal drains of the premises shall be directed to a soakage pit or a septic tank and if 
there is a source of water in the premises of the respective soakage pit or septic tank, it 
shall be set at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.
(17) For the employees on the premises; 
(i) If staying as residents, there shall be rooms with adequate sanitary facilities 
for accommodation. 
(ii) Latrine facilities shall be provided as appropriate.
(18) Platforms for keeping or storing vegetables and fruits in the premises shall be set at a 
height of at least 28 cm above the ground.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 7 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are 
not complied with.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections 
related to the issuance of a license.
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the license applies.
11. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
Issuing a license.
Fees for a license.
Inspection fees.
validity period.
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license.

<!-- page 109 -->

109A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the regulations made under 
Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all terms made 
by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in any case where an 
epidemic is declared applicable under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons 
who come to the premises expecting services, shall not related to the transactions unless 
they visit the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety 
instructions prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer 
of Health or the Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in 
the premises in order to protect from it and the license holder shall be satisfied that it 
is being so.
(5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the effluent and sewage shall be 
directed to the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the 
approved procedures and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination.
(6) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain 
of the road or outside area.
(7) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the 
discharge of wastewater or discharge of waste.
(8) Light bulbs fixed above the vegetables or fruits for sale or stored shall be of a safe 
condition and all of them shall be covered.
(9) disposal of waste collected in the premises shall be done in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha and in accordance with 
the applicable written laws in this regard.
(10) If the waste collected at the premises is managed by the license holder himself, it shall 
be in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Public Health Inspector or the 
Medical Officer of Health.
(11) When using weighing equipment for the sale of vegetables and fruits in the premises, 
it shall be done in accordance with the prescribed standards.
(12) If prepare fruits to make it easier to eat or to prepare fruit juices on the premises, 
everyone who does so shall not engage in any activity such as fruit preparation or fruit 
juice preparation without the use of gloves and hats. 
(13) When preparing fruit for consumption, shall always use drinking water and ice made 
from that water.
(14) Preparation of fruits for consumption shall not be done in advance except in the presence 
of consumers.

<!-- page 110 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
110A
(15) Vegetables and fruits shall be kept for sale so that they do not mix with rotten vegetables 
and fruits.
(16) The premises shall be kept in a clean condition at all times and no activities shall be 
carried out on the premises in such a manner as to cause any contamination of vegetables 
or fruits in the premises for any reason.
(17) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it 
or has declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health all persons working on the premises shall 
maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by the Medical Officer 
of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions in 
addition to any other provisions of this by-Law.
(18) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such 
a way that they do not affect the things used on the premises in any way and does not 
cause contamination of vegetables and fruits.
(19) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the premises in any way.
(20) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employees working on the premises 
and a process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need.
(21) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their hands frequently using 
disinfectants.
(22) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event 
of an epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask or gloves they 
are wearing on the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed to closed 
containers that are kept on the premises specifically for that purpose, and such waste 
shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management program and instructions 
implemented by the Council without mixing with other wastes.
(23) A person suffering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a 
disease or a vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections 
or any other infectious disease shall not be employed on the premises.
(24) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suffering from an infectious disease 
or an epidemic, he shall not be allowed to the premises in any event.
(25) employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, 
the license holder shall notify the Medical Officer of Health and upon such notification, 
all persons on the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions 
given by the Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
12. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to enter 
the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the 
provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
13. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
on-site inspection 
and obtaining 
samples.

<!-- page 111 -->

111A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
14. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this  
by-law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder 
informing a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with 
the by-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so 
shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period specified 
in the first notice.
15. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 14 
above.
16. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court for 
that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act 
No. 15 of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation continues 
even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, he shall be 
subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for each day of such violation.
17. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
“Council” means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer 
of Health division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant 
to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a 
license under this by-law,
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by 
chemicals or physical means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of 
the food,
"reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
"basic Law" means Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
18. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty.
Definitions.
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 112 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
112A
Schedule
Application to obtain a License to Maintain a Vegetables/fruits Trade Stall for the Year ......................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the trade mentioned above 
is conducted.
date:-        ……………………………….
                                                                                                                         Sighature of the applicant.
For office use 
revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back. 
date:-         .................................
                                                                                                                                          Secretary.

<!-- page 113 -->

113A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
Secretary,
recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
date :-              …………………………….
                                                                                                                                  revenue Inspector
Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect of the appli -
cation mentioned in the back.
date :-   
                                            .................................
                                                                                                                                                Secretary
Medical Officer of Health, 
Compliance with by-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a license. 
date :-                             
                                                                                                                                     .................................
                                                                                                                                    Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. (If not recommended, 
state the reason.) 
date :-                             .................................
                                                                                                                               Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 114 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
114A
bY-LAwS ON THE CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT Of PUbLIC HEALTH CARE 
fACILITIES
1. This by-Law is enacted for the control and management of public health care facilities in the 
Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha area.
2. This by-law is cited the by-law on the Control and management of Public Health Care Facilities 
in the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha. Area.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of 
Section 126(IX)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of 
the said Act.
4. Public health care facilities implemented in the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha area (hereinafter 
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain it in an appropriate manner. The 
Chairman shall, in consultation with the Medical Officer of Health, take such action.
5. The Medical Officer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authority area shall be 
treated as officers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing the public health 
facilities operated by the Sbaha.
6. The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions conferred on him under any 
written law in the control and management of public health facilities in the Authority area to 
the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions of the 
relevant written law.
7. The management of public health care facilities related to the following services operated by 
the Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under the supervision of the Medical Officer 
of Health.
1. Waste management activities in the area
2. maternal and Child Health Clinics
3. Public toilets and latrines
4. Public market Services
5. maintaining slaughterhouses
8. In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic affecting the Quarantine and Prevention of 
diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it, or any other regulation applicable under 
that ordinance, shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations regarding the maintenance 
of services shall be made by the Chairman in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Medical Officer of Health.
9. A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the proper 
maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the Sabha and a monthly report on the 
activities related to the management of the public health facilities relevant to the public health 
in the area with respect to the previous month shall be submitted by the the Medical Officer of 
Health to the Sabha every month.
Short Title.
The medical 
Officer of Health 
and the Public 
Health Inspectors 
shall be treated 
as officers of the 
Sabha.
delegate of 
powers
Under the 
supervision of the 
Medical Officer of 
Health.
making 
regulations.
monthly report.

<!-- page 115 -->

115A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
10. The recommendation of the Medical Officer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in respect 
of every measure applicable to the control and management of the relevant health care facilities 
in the authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority area of the Public Health Authority 
conferred by the written law.
11. Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease within 
the authority area or in case of a disease situation connected under the Quarantine or Prevention 
of diseases ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall be taken by the Chairman in 
consultation with the Medical Officer of Health.
12. In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person to duly 
provide such prescribed information to the prescribed persons within the prescribed time.
13. Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread of an epidemic or any contagious 
disease within the authority area applicable to the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Officer of Health to direct any 
person to provide data to himself or to an authorized authority.
14 If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accordance with an order under Section 
11 above, does not act in accordance with Section 12 above and after being convicted by a 
magistrate Court under section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 shall be 
subjected to a penalty.
15 It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrangement under the Head Office of the 
Sabha and all sub-offices for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegated under 
this by-Law.
16. Unless other meanings are required in relation to the terms of this by-law, this by-law
 “Sabha” refers  the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” refers those who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha at present or perform the duties of that office,
"Medical Officer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
"Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the office of the Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical Officer of Health attached to the authority 
area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, the managing director or manager 
of the organization or any person acting on behalf of that organization,
17. If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this By-law, the 
Sinhala text will prevail.
obtaining details
Penalty

<!-- page 116 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
116A
bY-LAw ON THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS fOR MARKET SUPERVISORS AND 
OTHER EMPLOYEES
1. This by-Law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Conditions for the proper performance 
of the duties of the Supervisors and other employees appointed for the market owned by 
Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law to specify the work of the market Supervisors and other 
employees of  Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these b y-laws by virtue of 
Section 126(XII)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of 
the said Act.
4. For every market belong to the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha, there should be a post in the name 
of the market supervisor and a suitable person should be appointed to the post. Appropriate 
appointments should be made by the authority
5. The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 as well as the 
provisions of Sub-section 19 (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 as appropriate, 
shall be applicable with regard to appointments to the post of market Supervisor.
6. In order to carry out the duties of the market Supervisor in a proper and appropriate manner, 
the necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha and established in accordance 
with the relevant procedures
7. The market Supervisor shall carry out the following functions either by himself or his associates 
within the Public market Premises (hereinafter referred to as the Premises)
(1) registration and maintenance of all traders in the premises.
(2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning that operates within the premises.
(3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is necessary to keep a close eye on 
the conduct of the trade under the respective premises in accordance with the terms of 
the relevant agreement.
(4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises and to ensure that the latrines 
are maintained in accordance with the by-laws regarding public latrines and to direct 
the staff in this regard.
(5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the premises is disposed in accordance 
with the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(6) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the premises is disposed in accordance 
with the waste management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(7) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respective pits or suction ditches so 
that water does not escape out of the drains.
(8) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the by-laws of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
regarding the public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the 
premises.
(9) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market premises in a timely manner.
Short Title
Appointment
Supporting posts 
creation 
Functions of 
market Supervisor

<!-- page 117 -->

117A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(10) ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal activities take place in the 
premises.
(11) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises.
(12) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot within the premises and direct 
the proper use of the entrances and exits.
(13) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the 
premises and supervise accordingly.
(14) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized use of the premises.
(15) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animals such as dogs and cats on 
the premises.
(16) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Pradeshiya Sabha from the traders 
engage in trade in the premises.
8. The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task to the assistants to carry out the work 
assigned to him under Article 6 of this by-law and he shall ensure that the work so assigned 
is carried out in a proper and appropriate manner.
9. Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or territory of Sri Lanka or when 
there is a suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the market Supervisor 
to ensure that all steps are taken to implement the following or any other instruction given 
by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health regarding the premises
(1) make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in various places on the 
premises is safe and in constant use for the users of the premises.
(2) ensure that the conditions connected with the use of public latrines in the premises are 
properly observed and the relevant health instructions are followed.
(3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried out in accordance with the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
(4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordance with the instructions given 
to the users of the premises to maintain the social distance 
(5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles 
into the premises.
(6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be displayed in the premises 
through advertisements and other advertising methods.
(7) The disposal of the waste of used masks, gloves, etc. in the premises are to be considered 
as clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste.
(8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activities in the premises for the sake 
of public health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises 
(9) Each stall in the premises has a specific person appointed in connection with the cash 
transactions.
Follow the 
instruction during 
the outbreak of an 
epidemic.

<!-- page 118 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
118A
(10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Officer of 
Health or the Public Health Inspector for the benefit of the public health shall be duly 
executed within the premises.
10. It is the responsibility of the market Supervisor to carry out the duties assigned to him and make 
other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly by this by-law.
11. The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day-to-day activities of the employees 
in the premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the premises for visitors' notes 
for follow-up.
12. It is the responsibility and duty of the market Supervisor to ensure that all activities are carried 
out in accordance with the written directives related to the public market and its activities by the 
Chairman or an officer authorized by him, and that the instructions given after such supervision 
are properly implemented
13. The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the general administration of the Chairman 
and Secretary of the Sabha
14. Unless a different meaning is required in relation to the terms of this By-law, this By-law ;
“Sabha” means Agalawatta Pradesiya Sabha,
"Chairman" means Agalawatta the current Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or those who 
hold the office of the Chairman, 
"Medical Officer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Officer of Health 
division relevant to the Pradeshiya Sabha area,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the office of the Pradeshiya Sabha or Medical Officer of Health working in the authority 
area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
15. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts in this  
By-law, Sinhala text will prevail,
 
Keeping records 
Supervision
Act under 
the general 
administration of 
the Chairman and 
Secretary of the 
Sabha.
Definition.
Inconsistencies 
between texts.

<!-- page 119 -->

119A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw Of REGULATING THE CONDUCT Of SHOwS ON THE ROADS AND 
STREETS Of THE  PRADESHIYA SAbHA
1. This by-law is enacted to control, regulate and to make arrangements for consequent matters 
to the conduct of shows by gathering people in any road, street and related reserve in the area 
of authority of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2.
3.
This by-law is known as the by-law of regulating the conduct of shows on the roads and streets 
of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha
The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of 
Section  126(vII)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of 
the said Act.
4. No person shall conduct a show or engage in any such activity in such a way as to gather the 
public except with a prior written permission of the Chairman in any road, street and related 
reserve in the area of authority of the  Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (herein after referred to as 
the authority area).
5. Any person wishing to conduct a show or engage in any activity in such a way as to gather the 
public on a particular road, street, or related reserve in the authority area within a specified period 
of time, shall apply for the permission in advance by submitting an application to the Chairman.
6. When someone has made a request to gather people to conduct a show on a road, street or related 
reserve, or gather people to engage in any kind of such activity, the Chairman shall not grant 
permission to any person to do so without subjecting himself/herself to the recommendations 
and conditions of the Medical Officer of Health if there is a recommendation and conditions to 
which such gathering is appropriate for the benefit of the prevailing public health in the area. 
7. Whenever any epidemic situation has been declared by the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases 
ordinance and the regulations made under it in relation to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka 
or whenever an epidemic is declared in the authority area no person shall engage in activities 
that gather the public on a road, street or related reserve in the authority area.
8.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
This by-law stipulates that the applicant shall maintain the relevant show subject to the 
following conditions:
That during the performance of the show, the relevant activities will be carried out in 
accordance with the health care strategies recommended to be maintained for the benefit 
of the public health of the area during the entire period,
That the show shall always be held only for random gatherings and that the show shall 
not be advertised in advance,
That no fees shall be charged for the purpose of the show,
That at no time engage in the show that maintains a position that minimizes the visibility 
of the show,
That the performer shall keep adequate sealed garbage bins at the venue, and if there is 
anything disposed by the people gathered they should be disposed to the garbage bins, 
and shall conduct the show by encouraging the audience to do so.  
Short name.
obtaining 
permission
Granting 
permission by the 
Chairman.
Conditions

<!-- page 120 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
120A
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
That the garbage collected in garbage bins at the venue during the show will be 
disposed of by the performer at the end of the show in accordance with the active waste 
management program in the area.
That if loudspeakers or other visual display boards are to be set up at the venue, prior 
approval shall be obtained in accordance with the applicable written law and it shall be 
maintained so that it can be easily seen in more directions.
That the show will be held in such a manner that it will not cause any hindrance to 
traffic or pedestrian traffic.
That if there are any public health rules to be followed by the gathering under the 
permission given to hold the show or perform the show, the relevant show will be held 
or the show will be held in satisfaction that all those rules will be fulfilled in that manner.
9. When the Chairman permits to hold a show on a road, street or related reserve or any other 
such event the relevant permission under section 5 of this by-law shall be granted after been 
satisfied that it shall not disrupt with the traffic or public using the road, street or related reserve.
10. In cases where a specific public place has been reserved by the Council for a gathering of the 
people or for purpose of a show, the Chairman shall not grant permission for any show on a 
road or in a related reserve except at that place.
11. The fees to be charged for the issuance of a permit under this by-law shall be a fee decided and 
published by the Council by a resolution of motion from time to time.
12. Acting under a permit obtained from the Chairman under this by-law shall be subject to the 
provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made 
under it.
13. It is lawful for the Chairman to cancel a permit issued under this by-law at any time when the 
Chairman is satisfied that there are factors causing an epidemic in the authority are, and upon 
such cancellation the amount charged for a permit shall be released to the applicant.
14. It is an offense to hold a show in a road, street in the authority area without a permit to be 
obtained under this by-law or to act in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being 
convicted by a magistrate Court, he/she shall be liable to a penalty under sub-section 122 (4) 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.  
15. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law;
The "Council" means the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
The "Chairman" means the current Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or the person performs 
the duties of that position, 
and 
The "Medical Officer of Health" means the person who hold the office of that position related 
to the division of the Medical Officer of Health of the relevant area.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
That Traffic should 
not be disrupted.
Fees
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty
Definition
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 121 -->

121A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw RELATING TO bEAUTY CENTERS
1. This by-law is enacted to control and regulate the maintenance of beauty centers maintained 
within the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law relating To  beauty Centers of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(xxiii) of the said Act.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain a beauty center (hereinafter referred to as the premises) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this By-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein.
(1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Urban development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or the 
Housing and Urban development ordinance. 
(2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business name. 
(3) The License holder shall confirm that a person with a Certificate in Beauty Certificate or 
a similar vocational competency certificate conducted by a training institute registered 
with the Tertiary and vocational education Commission is employed on the premises.
(4) Constructions on the premises shall be made of permanent construction materials and 
shall be of good and hygienic condition.
(5) Adequate space shall be provided in proportion to the number of clients simultaneously 
serving not less than 2.25 square meters of floor area separately for each client.
(6) For any client who arrive therein in anticipation of services shall provide with adequate 
space to be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 meters distance from the place where 
another client is being served.
(7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meters in height and shall be painted.
(8) All sections of the premises shall be finished with a ceiling or concrete plate and shall 
be at least 2.7 meters above the ground level.
Short title.
Legal Power.
Applying for a 
License.
Conditions related 
to a license.

<!-- page 122 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
122A
(9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that can be opened sufficiently 
to allow air to flow in from the outside.
(10) The premises shall be well finished so that the relevant light is well received. 
(11) drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use of the premises and shall be 
stored in containers which meet the standards.
(12) Facilities shall be provided for bathing when required after providing the services of 
the client.
(13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for washing the equipment and 
containers used for the clients.
(14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employees and customers of the 
institution and it shall be constructed of permanent materials in a proper and hygienic 
manner.
(15) Specific equipment shall be fixed for washing the hands, head or face of the customers 
and they shall be cleaned and disinfected after use by one person before being used by 
another and that equipment shall be made of stainless materials.
(16) Adequate measures shall be taken not flow the wastewater discharged from the premises 
into public drains or open ground and shall be properly directed to a septic tank or a 
soakage pit. 
(17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises shall not be open to the outside and 
if there is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.  
(18) If there is a disposal of chemical wastewater from the premises, the relevant disposal shall 
be made in accordance with a procedure recommended by the Central environmental 
Authority or the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector.
(19) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequate facilities for the customers 
waiting for services.
(20) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked by a professional and certified 
to be safe from leakage.
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a license made under this by-law, the 
Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the premises if it is in accordance with 
the conditions mentioned in Section 7.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it is not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be 
decided and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site 
inspections in connection with the issuance of a license.
Issuing a license
Fees for a license

<!-- page 123 -->

123A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the 
provisions of this By-law, it shall be valid until December thirty first of the year in which the 
license is related.
11. All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all orders issued by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health in the event of an outbreak 
of an epidemic being declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and 
Prevention of diseases ordinance.
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service 
facilities shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come 
to the premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued.
(4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly on the premises as directed 
by the Director General of Health Services or the Medical Officer of Health or by 
the Chairman on their instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in 
the authority area to protect from it, and the license holder shall be satisfied that it is 
being so.
(5) An information register shall be maintained relevant to all those who come to the 
premises expecting services.
(6) every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and hair removal of the customers, 
everyone who engages in such activities shall wear face masks and gloves as much 
as possible.
(7) To manage and maintain equipment and utensils on the premises, the license holder 
shall ensure that there are, 
(A)    Adequate facilities for the sterilization of used equipment and utensils; 
(b)    an accepted sterilization method and a adequate number of equipment used for 
sterilization; 
(C)     Soap or soapy liquid with hand washing facilities when providing services to 
the service providers inside; 
(d)    Adequate number of white or other light colored towels and upper body covers 
and hats for the use of the clients; 
(e)    When electric power tools are used, secure and permanent power plugs, to one 
customer's desk; 
(F)     Sterilization methods after each use of equipment.
(8) every employee working on the premises shall have a training in the use of safety 
equipment, service delivery and other activities related to the premises.
(9) Facilities shall be available to provide hot and cold water as required for the services 
relevant to the premises.

<!-- page 124 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
124A
(10) everything used for cosmetic purposes shall be standardized things approved and 
registered.
(11) Service providers shall be well trained to provide first aid functions as required under 
the services provided on the premises.
(12) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of air in the premises, and if air 
conditioned, all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature.
(13) The filters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and 
maintained.
(14) The relevant service shall be provided only after the hands have been cleaned with 
soap or sanitizer before providing the service to a customer.
(15) When working on the premises, the service shall not be provided to a customer without 
adequate cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any 
contaminants.
(16) When serving the customers on the premises, every service provider shall wear an 
apron and it shall be of very clean condition.
(17) dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each service on the premises, and all 
shall be temporarily disposed into a sealed garbage bin.
(18) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleaned daily with disinfectants before 
starting work.
(19) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose.
. (20) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for the separate collection of waste 
collected in the premises, and waste shall be collected only into that. 
(21) The following procedures shall be followed in the management of waste that collects 
in relation to the premises.
(A)    removed hair shall be collected at the end of each service and disposed in a 
separate garbage bin. 
(b)      other waste generated by the activities in the premises shall be collected separately 
without mixing them with the discharged hair. 
(C)       The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste 
management program implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or in accordance 
with the waste disposal strategy implemented by the license holder as agreed 
by the Public Health Inspector. 
(22) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected at least twice a day and shall 
be kept free from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an epidemic 
in the authority area, the latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in 
accordance with the guidelines given by the Chairman as instructed by the medical 
Officer of Health.

<!-- page 125 -->

125A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(23) Any person who suffers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has 
recently suffered from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has 
recently infected from any such disease, unless the period of infection and incubation 
has expired, shall not be employed or employed as an assistant at any licensed place.
(24) Any person identified as suffering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease 
shall not normally be entered to the premises for service.
(25) When the license holder decides or in case where it is prescribed by the Council or 
any other competent authority as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the body 
temperature of all persons visit seeking service on the premises shall be checked to 
ensure that their body temperature is at a normal level and entered into the premises, and 
required thermometers shall be maintained to check body temperature without contact.
(26) The health guidelines to be followed by each client on the premises shall be displayed 
on the premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activities are carried out in 
accordance with those guidelines.
(27) Applies to everyone employed on the premises, the license holder shall ensure that, 
(A)     That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good health condition, 
(b)     That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not 
harm the customer, 
C)       That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service.
(28) It is the job of the license holder to subject the employees of the premises to medical 
checkups at least once a year.
(29) A copy of this by-law and license shall be maintained on display in each premises.
12. Taking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the 
Chairman has prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement 
regarding the maintenance of the premises as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health, the 
license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman 
shall send a copy of it to the Medical Officer of Health.
13. In the event of an order is in effect under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be 
maintained in accordance with all the terms of that order.
14. It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman to 
enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance 
with the provisions of this by-law and obtain the required samples.
15. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman 
may grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend 
the time period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period 
granted so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the 
period specified in the first notice.
Power to enter the 
Premises
Cancellation of the 
license

<!-- page 126 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
126A
16. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder 
neglect being complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period 
given under Section 15 above.
17. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or 
in violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court 
for that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation 
continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, 
he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 122(2) of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 for each day of such violation.
18. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law,
“Council” means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
"disinfectant" means to reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by a chemical 
agent or physical means to a level that does not reduce the safety or suitability,
"reasonable Time" shall mean the Licensed Function or the relevant time.    
19. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this By-law, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Definitions
Inconsistency 
between texts
Penalty
Schedule 
Application for Trade License for the year. ..........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -

<!-- page 127 -->

127A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Start year : -
06. Address where the beauty center is maintained: -
07. Grama Niladhari 
division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration have been obtained
Its reference number :
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business places :
I. Name and personal address :
II. National Identity Card Number :
III. Telephone Number, Mobile : Fixed : 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business (copies should be attached)
I  certify that the above information is true and correct.
date:-………………………. 
            …………………………..
Signature of the applicant 
For office use
revenue Inspector,
kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back 
date:-............................... .................................
Secretary

<!-- page 128 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
128A
Secretary,
I recommend ./ Not recommend granting the license
date :- …………………………….             
                                                                                                                                      …………………………….
                                                                                                                                               revenue Inspector
Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect to the application 
mentioned on the back. 
date:-............................... 
                           .........................................
                                                                                                                                                    Secretary
Medical Officer of Health,
Compliance  with by-laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing a license.
date :-                                                                       ........................................
                 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend the issuance a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date :-                                 .................................
                                                                                                                                            Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 129 -->

129A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw RELATING TO MARKETS
1. This by-Law is enacted to regulate and monitor the public or private markets maintained within 
the authority area of  Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by Law is cited as the by Laws for markets of Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabah.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of 
Section  126(XII)   of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of 
the said Act.
4. This by-law refers to a public or private market that is maintained for purchase or sale of 
goods or materials for the public on behalf of Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha or any other party 
located within the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to 
as authority area) for the purpose.     
  5. All public markets and private markets located within the authority area shall be maintained under 
the management of a market caretaker (hereinafter referred to as the premises at some places).
6. All public markets and private markets established and maintained within the authority area 
shall be constructed to meet the following requirements.
(1) Permanent buildings pertaining to the premises shall be constructions constructed 
under the Urban development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or in accordance with the 
provisions of the Housing and Urban development ordinance.
(2) Construction on the premises shall be well made of permanent structure and maintained 
in good condition.
(3) There shall be platforms for the sale of goods and materials for each permanent 
construction on the premises, and the front of the platforms shall be adequately spaced 
so that buyers can move around.
(4) Under the permanent construction of the premises, each stall shall be at least two 
square meters wide.
(5) All buildings related to the premises shall be constructed with access facilities for 
persons with disabilities and special needs.
(6) All construction on the premises shall be securely constructed, and all construction 
materials on the premises shall be free from contaminants and materials that are not 
suitable for food or stock, as well as those that do not emit toxic gases.
(7) The internal layout of the buildings on the premises shall be arranged in such a way that 
they can be separated, divided and positioned to prevent cross-pollution in the premises.
(8) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed so that the hygienic operations 
of the process from bringing the goods to the premises to the sale can be carried out 
properly.
(9) There should proper access to the premises for the vehicles carrying goods to the 
premises and the food items in the premises shall not be polluted in any way due to 
the motor vehicles entering the premises.
(10) There should be adequate parking facilities for vehicles carrying goods and customers 
inside the premises.
(11) The floor should be prepared in a manner that water does not remain in the premises 
and arranged in a manner that all the drains and rainwater in the premises flow easily.
That the market 
should be under 
the management of 
a caretaker.
requirements for a 
public and private 
market.
Short Title.

<!-- page 130 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
130A
(12) Sewage pits for the discharge of wastewater within the premises shall be constructed 
in accordance with the approved design and shall be located at a distance of at least 
15.25 m from a water source and shall not be exposed to the outside.
(13) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the premises and maintained separately 
for men and women. The provisions of the by-Laws relating to Public latrine in respect 
of public latrine maintained within the premises shall apply with the required minor 
changes.
(14) Adequate space should be provided within the premises to allow the sale and purchase 
of goods while maintaining adequate social distance, and the internal structure should 
be maintained to facilitate the movement of goods within the premises without causing 
inconvenience to customers.
(15) every platform set up for the sale of goods should have a non-slip, waterproof, 
appropriate surface and be easy to clean with antiseptic.
(16) The premises should be zoned according to what is for sale, and no goods other than 
specified in the particular zone shall not be sold.
(17) No item or items for sale should be kept in direct contact with the ground and should 
always be placed on a rack with a sufficient height above the floor for sale.
(18) It should be the duty of the caretaker of the market to make room for the sale so that 
there is enough space for the customers to move around in the premises to buy the goods.
(19) equipments used for weighing and measuring in the premises should be with proper 
standard 
(20) Animals such as dogs and cats should not be allowed to gather or stay in the premises.
7. Separate stalls shall be set up in the area reserved for the sale of fish in the premises and the 
following should be completed in this regard.
(1) Platforms for the sale of fish should be constructed with solid material and drains 
should also be constructed in a manner that the water can flow easily.
(2) All equipment in the fish storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germ 
and should not emit contaminants or toxic gases into the fish.
(3) Light bulbs and other fixtures hanging above the fish for sale should be in a safe 
condition and covered 
(4) The fish market shall be kept clean and disinfected and before starting any sale the 
place shall be cleaned with anti-septic. 
(5) The parts that contact with the fish kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and 
should not be contaminated in any way.
(6) Water from the cleaning and use of fish stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or 
suction pit under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other 
drains in the area.
(7) The effluent collected during the sale of fish should be temporarily collected in sealed 
containers so that it does not mix with other effluents in the premises and disposed 
of in accordance with the waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya 
Sabha or as per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
Sale of fish in the 
premises

<!-- page 131 -->

131A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of fish other than kept for sale.
(9) If the fish is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be available and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply .
(10) Fish taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not re-
refrigerated and sold. 
(11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in printing paper or in direct contact 
with fish.
(12) Fish shall not be stored in sales stall, the equipment non-related fish sale shall not be 
kept in the stall. 
(13) All fish sellers shall wear clean clothes.
(14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written law for the operation of a premises 
for the sale of fish, all such licenses must have been obtained by the fish sellers in the 
premises, none of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions.
8. If a zone is created for the sale of meat in the premises, specific stalls shall be set up in this 
regard and the following requirement shall be completed 
(1) Relevant stalls shall be constructed in such a manner as to be considered as a specific 
premises for the purpose, and all relevant stalls shall be maintained under a license in 
accordance with the written rules relating to the maintenance of the premises for the 
sale of meat
(2) All equipment in the meat storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germs 
and should not emit pollutants or toxic gases into the meat 
(3) Light bulbs and other fixtures hanging above the meat for sale should be in a safe 
condition and covered 
(4) The meat shall be kept clean and disinfected and before starting any sale the place shall 
be cleaned with anti-septic.
(5) The parts that contact with the meat kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and 
should not be contaminated in any way.
(6) Water from the cleaning and use of meat stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or 
suction pit under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other 
drains in the area.
(7) The effluent collected during the sale of meat should be temporarily collected in sealed 
containers so that it does not mix with other effluents in the premises and disposed of in 
accordance with the waste management system implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
or as per the instructions of the Public Health Inspector.
(8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of meat other than kept for sale. 
(9) If the meat is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be available and the relevant 
refrigerators should be maintained under continuous electricity supply.
Sale of meat in the 
premises.

<!-- page 132 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
132A
(10) The meat taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not 
re-refrigerated and sold. 
(11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in printing paper or in direct contact 
with the meat.
(12) The meat shall not be stored in the sales stall, the equipment non-related meat sale 
shall not be kept in the stall. 
(13) All meat sellers shall wear clean clothes.
(14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written law for the operation of premises 
for the sale of meat. All such licenses must have been obtained by the meat sellers in 
the premises; none of those provisions shall not undermine these provisions.
9. Platforms for selling fruits and vegetables in the premises should be at least 45 cm above 
ground level and in the absence of such platforms, they should be placed on a board of sufficient 
height and sold
10. Those who engaged in sales in the premises shall use the standardized weighing and measuring 
equipment 
11. Vegetables and fruits kept for sale should never be kept in mix with rotten vegetables and fruits 
and should always be disposed only in the containers for the disposal of rotten vegetables and 
fruits.
12. every trader should make sure that rotten vegetables or fruits that have not been ready at any 
time for the consumption 
13. only drinking water shall be used for washing the vegetables and fruits in the premises and 
the washing shall be done only in a designated place.
14. Garbage accumulated due to sales should be disposed only in the containers kept for disposal 
at the premises or at the designated place at the end of the sales.
15. No cooking or making fire or any other preparation of food shall be done by anyone at the 
premises.
16. When selling cooked food at the  premises;
(1) Food shall not be sold in a place where there is a risk of food contamination.
(2) Always the food items shall be sold from the sealed or airtight containers.
(3) Food items kept in any open space shall not be sold.
(4) Cooked food shall not be taken here and there around the premises and sold.
(5) everyone who sells food item shall use gloves and touch the food only with the help 
of a handle to hold food.
17. No person shall drink alcohol or make arrangements to drink alcohol or smoke in any way at 
the premises 
18. No person in the premises should utter filthy words or behave in an obscene manner 
General 
Conditions.

<!-- page 133 -->

133A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
19. Anyone who suffers from any infectious disease, or who is suspected of having contracted  
disease, or who has been infected with a wound, skin infection, ulcer, or diarrhea, or who has 
been cared for, should not trade on the premises.
20. The loudspeakers shall not be used in the premises to advertise or present musical programs
21. No person in the premises shall beg or hold performances 
22. Whatever the above provisions of this by-law contain, there are reasonable grounds to suspect 
that in any area or authority area in Sri Lanka, when there is a provision for the spread of an 
epidemic under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made 
under it, In such cases, it should be lawful for the Chairman to prescribe that all or some of 
the following procedures shall be followed by the users of the premises as instructed by the 
Medical Officer of Health.
(1) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders and consumers at various 
places in the premises 
(2) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders and consumers at various 
places in the premises 
(3) That public latrines in the premises should be temporarily closed.
(4) That there should be several entrances and exits to the premises.
(5) That the relevant minimum distance between traders and consumers should be 
maintained and the minimum distance to be maintain between each other.
(6) That the premises should be well ventilated 
(7) That the number of people entered to the premises at a time by the entrances should 
be limited 
(8) That respiratory etiquette should be maintained on the premises and that anyone 
suspected of having a fever or respiratory illness or such condition should be prohibited 
from entering the premises 
(9) Traders and users of the premises are required to wear face masks and traders are 
required to wear face masks and gloves 
(10) That conduct and other necessary instruction should be displayed at the premises and 
maintained on a regular basis 
(11) That when dealing with money in the premises, a specific person shall be deployed at 
each stall to perform that task and he or she shall regularly sterilize and clean their hands 
(12) That food should not be consumed by anyone in any way in the premises 
(13) That the premises should be divided into sections and operated for a limited trade.
(14) That the premises were not maintained for commercial purposes for a period of time
23. All persons who use the premises shall act in accordance with the provisions made by the 
Chairman under the above clause 
maintaining the 
public market 
in an epidamic 
situation.
The terms must be 
compiled.

<!-- page 134 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
134A
24. every public market owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha and private market should have a boundary 
schedule to the land area 
25. When it is a public market belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
(1) The Chairman shall ensure that all steps taken to maintain the provisions of this  
by-Laws are properly implemented 
(2) As per the decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the public market of the Sabha can be 
entrusted to the second parties identified under the proper tender procedure
(3) When the public market is maintained by the parties contracted on behalf of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha, it shall be supervised by an officer authorized by the Chairman to 
specify whether it shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this by-Law
 
26. (1) When the public market is maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the fees to be charged 
for trade in the premises should be as determined by the Sabha 
(2) All matters related to the fees prescribed under sub-clause (1) above and the reservation 
of space for public market vendors shall be decided by the sabha taking into consideration 
the recommendations of a committee appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
27. All private operating maintained within the authority area shall not be maintained except under 
a license to be obtained from the Chairman.
28. All private markets operating within the authority shall not be issue a license unless they comply 
with the provisions of this by-Law 
29. All persons applying for a license under Article 26 shall apply to the Chairman in accordance 
with an application under the Schedule to this by-Law 
30. The fees to be charged in respect of requests received from the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be 
legally determined by the sabha through a prior proposal 
31. If a license issued under section 26 is not previously revoked in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st december of the year in which the license issued 
32. (1) (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be determined 
and declared by the Sabha, subject to the provisions of the basic Law
(2) It should be lawful for the Sabha to determine and charge an inspection fee for a site 
inspection in connection with the issuance of a license 
33. It shall be lawful for an officer authorized by the Chairman to enter the premises and obtain 
the necessary items to inspect the premises in accordance with the provisions of this by-Law 
34. (1) In the event of a breach or contradiction of the provisions of this by-law, the Chairman 
shall give notice to the licensee giving a specified period not exceeding thirty days for 
compliance with the by-law 
(2)  Upon submission of a notice under this section to the licensee, the Chairman may 
grant additional time upon request, on reasonable grounds, to grant further time to 
act in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period so granted shall be 
subjected to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period specified in 
the first notice.
determination of 
fees.
License for Private 
market.
Appling for 
License.
License fee.
Authority for 
inspection.
Violation of the 
terms of the 
license.

<!-- page 135 -->

135A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
35. The Chairman shall revoke the relevant license in the event that the licensee fails to 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period granted under 
section 33 above 
36. It is an offense to act in violation of any provision of this by-law or to operate a private 
market without obtaining a license under this by-law and after being convicted by a 
magistrate court under sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,No. 15 of 1987 
shall be subjected to a penalty.
37. Unless the context required an interpretation of the terms of this By-law,
       "Sabha" means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Chairman" refers to the person who holds the post of Chairman of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha at present or the person who performs the function of that 
position.
“Authorized Officer” Any officer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Pollution" means food or food pollutants entry or occurrence.
       "Hygiene" refers to all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety   
        and suitability of food at all stages of a food chain
 
38. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts in this  By-
law, Sinhala text will prevail .
Inconsistencies 
between texts.
Schedule 
Application for Trade License for the Year. ..........................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Address of the place where the fair is held: -
06. Start year: -
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
I do herby certify that the above information is true and correct.
I kindly request you that please issue me trade license for the year ............................ for the industry and place of trade 
mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules in this regard.
date:-……………………….        
                                                                                                                                            …………………………..
                                                                                                                                      Signature of the applicant 
Penalty.

<!-- page 136 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
136A
For office use
revenue Inspector,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the applicant men-
tioned on the back page.
date:-...............................                                                                                    .................................
                                                                                                                                       Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend ./ Not recommend granting the license
date :- …………………………….             
                                                                                                                                      …………………………….
                                                                                                                                             revenue Inspector
Medical Officer of Health,
Kindly request your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned 
on the back page. 
date:-............................... 
                           .........................................
                                                                                                                                                    Secretary
Medical Officer of Health,
eligible in accordance with by-laws and other rules and regulations. I do hereby recommend the issuance of licenses.
date :-                                                                       ........................................
                 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / I do not recommend the issuance a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date :-                                 .................................
                                                                                                                                             Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 137 -->

137A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY-LAw REGARDING PROVISIONS RELATING TO DISINfECTION Of PUbLIC 
PLACES
1. This by-law is enacted to make provisions for the relevant incidental matters, including the 
disinfection of public places and places of worship within the authority area of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-law regarding the provisions relating to disinfection of public 
places in the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 126(ix) of the said Act.
4. Under the following circumstances the Chairman shall disinfect or arrange to do so any 
place where the public gathers or gathered for matters of public importance or for a specific 
purpose including places of worship within the authority area of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha (herein after referred to as authority area):
(1) In cases where there is a need to disinfect places of worship or other places where public 
gathers or gathered located within the authority area in accordance with the provisions of 
the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases ordinance and the regulations made under it.
(2) When there is a spread of an epidemic in any part or territory of Sri Lanka or in the 
authority area or when the Chairman has decided on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health that there are sufficient grounds to suspect the spread of any epidemic in the 
authority area.
(3) When a person dies due to an undiagnosed disease in a authority area and the places 
where the deceased person travelled has been identified.
(4) When the Medical Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector has decided that the 
premises should be disinfected when a large gathering of the public is held or is being 
held at any place of worship and when such a religious ceremony is over.
(5) When a premises is maintained for a period of time without any activity and is used to 
gather people back to the premises.
(6) When it has been reported that a patient who has been infected or suspected of being 
infectious, or who has been in contact with such a patient has visited or acted in a place 
where public is gathered. 
(7) When the Medical Officer of Health has advised that the areas identified as common 
public places shall be disinfected, when an outbreak of an epidemic is reported in their 
authority area or in any part of Sri Lanka.
(8) When the Medical Officer of Health has instructed that the relevant premises shall be 
disinfected for the benefit of the public health, when it matters the public to gather at 
any place of worship or public place. 
(9) When any public places are subject to disinfection in accordance with a plan implemented 
for the purpose of promoting and protecting public health in the authority area.
(10) Whenever it is decided by the Chairman to disinfect any public premises as per the 
instructions of the Medical Officer of Health that it should be done for the sake of a 
more accurate health care existence.
Short title
Circumstances 
where disinfection 
shall be done

<!-- page 138 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
138A
5. If any public premises in the authority area is used by any person for public gathering, when 
there is a possibility of an epidemic spreading in the area or when there is a suspicion that it 
may be so, it is lawful for the Chairman to make any of the following orders to the person or 
the organizer engaged as instructed by the Medical Officer of Health. 
(1) That the premises shall be disinfected before gathering the people in the relevant 
premises.
(2) That the premises shall be disinfected after the people have gathered and dispersed in 
the relevant premises.
(3) That the premises shall be disinfected before and after use.
6. It is the responsibility and duty of the person who gets the order to act in accordance with the 
orders made by the Chairman under the above section.
7. The Chairman may act for the disinfection of religious places and public places within the 
authority area for the benefit of the public in accordance with a specific schedule prepared on 
the instructions of the Medical Officer of Health.
8. It is an offense if a person does not act in accordance with the orders made under Section 5 above 
by the Chairman and shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, after being convicted by a magistrate Court.
9. If disregards the orders made by the Chairman under Section 5,
it is lawful for the Chairman to disinfect the premises relevant to that order and charge the 
defaulter the cost spent incurred.
10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law ;
"Council" means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
"Chairman" means the person who holds the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or performs the duties of that position,
"Medical Officer of Health" means those who hold the office of the Medical Officer of Health 
division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Public Health Inspector" means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Person" means an individual or managing director or manager of the organization or any 
person acting on behalf of that organization when referring to an organization by the name of 
an individual.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
ordering a party to 
disinfect.
Penalty.
Definition.
Inconsistancy 
between texts

<!-- page 139 -->

139A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
bY LAwS RELATING TO PUbLIC LATRINES Of 
PRADESHIYA SAbHA
1. The objective of the enforcement of this by law is to regulate the use and maintenance of Public 
Latrine System in this Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha authority area.
2. This by Law is cited as the by Law for regulating the use and maintenance of Public Latrines 
within the authority area of Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha 
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of 
Section 126(IX), of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-Section 122 of 
the said Act.
4. It shall be the responsibility of the Sabha to maintain Public Latrine facilities in the places where 
general public gather, within the authority area of Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabah (hereinafter 
refers as authority area). 
5. All Public Latrine facilities within authority area of Pradeshiya Sabha shall be maintained with 
clean and tidy adequately under the sanitary requirement and shall be well maintained.
6. Separate facilities for men, women and for persons with disabilities should be maintained in 
each public Latrine maintained by the Sabha. 
7. All public Latrines within the authority area of Pradeshiya Sabah shall be maintained in 
accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health to be maintained 
for the benefit of the public health
8. Adequate water supply should be maintained permanently for all public Latrines and water 
storage facilities shall also be provided for this purpose. 
9. All public Latrines shall be easily accessible to both men and women as well as persons with 
disabilities. 
10. each Latrine should have facilities such as hand washing with proper, permanent water 
connection in a designated area with a basin made of stainless steel and should always have 
facilities with the adequate sanitary wipers,  detergent and hand drying facilities also be provided.
11. each public Latrine should have separate cloth racks in each compartment and should also be 
provided with space to keep the belongins
12. Adequate number of foot operated dust bins should be kept in each compartment of every public 
Latrine for the public use.  
13. If there are any masks or gloves worn by the users of the public Latrine, the masks or gloves 
should be disposed in to the foot operated dust bins. This specifically stated on the dust bins.
14 The surface of all the public Latrine should be made of cement or porcelain so that the water 
does not retain and slip easily and the floor should be prepared so that water can drain easily. 
15  (01)
(02)
Instructions on specific sanitary measures to be followed by the public Latrine users 
for protection of public health to be displayed in the public Latrine premises for easy 
understanding.  
 All persons who use public Latrines shall act in accordance with the relevant instructions. 
Short Title
The Sabha should 
maintain public 
Latrine facilities

<!-- page 140 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
140A
16. A latrine shall always be cleaned and be kept under sanitary condition and germicide should 
be used when cleaning and shall be well maintained and staff should be deployed to ensure 
the cleanliness.    
17. Adequate lighting should be provided in all public Latrines.
18. If the Sabha decides to charge a fee for the services provided in public Latrines within the 
authority area, a notice shall be prepared and affixed in all three languages clearly with regard 
to the available facilities and the fees charged.  
 
19. When using public Latrines, the accumulated waste should be disposed in accordance with the 
specific procedure and the disposal of masks and gloves used should be considered as medical 
waste and disposed accordingly.
 
20. The utensils used in public Latrines should be cleaned with water after every use and then keep 
them ready for the easy use of others.
 
21. If a public Latrine is maintained by a second party on behalf of the Sabha, the provisions of this 
by-law shall applicable to all public Latrine so maintained by the second party. The compliance 
of provisions of this by-law shall be monitored regularly by the assigned employees, appointed 
for this purpose.
 
22. In addition to the provisions of this by-Law, the users of public Latrine shall also abide by 
provisions of the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, when prescribed or applied 
to any epidemic situation 
 
23. It shall be lawful to restrict the use of any public Latrine within the authority are for the benefit 
of public health for a specified period of time, to restrict its use, or to suspend it temporarily by 
the Chairman as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health.  
 
24. Taking into the consideration of the factors that may cause or spread of any epidemic disease 
within the authority area declared by the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance, the 
Chairman shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the use of public Latrine is accordance 
with the instructions given by the Medical Officer of Health prior to the use Latrine by the public. 
 
25. Prior to the use of public Latrine in connection with the steps under Section 23 above, the 
Chairman shall display the instructions in a manner that is easily visible to the user of the public 
Latrine in accordance with instructions of the Medical Officer of Health.  
 
26. All public Latrines should be cleaned with antiseptic according to a specific daily schedule in 
a manner that no odor is emitted, while such cleaning activities shall be recorded in a report 
kept in the premises. The Chairman shall implement an appropriate program to regulate the 
continuity of the clean-up operations. 
 
27. No matter whatever stated in the above clauses of this by-law, there shall not be any impediment 
by any provision of this by-law to the implementation of the provisions of the Quarantine and 
Prevention of disease ordinance or any regulation obtained thereon. 
 
28. If a Public Latrine is maintained on behalf of the Council under the administration of a second 
party, the provisions of this by-law shall apply to all public Latrines so maintained and shall 
always be deemed to have been applicable. 
 
29. If a fee is charged for the use of a public Latrine, a receipt shall be issued to the user for the 
specific amount so charged.
Charge a fee;
obtaining the 
assistance of a 
second party
Use of public 
Latrines during an 
epidemic situation

<!-- page 141 -->

141A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
30.  It is an offense for any person who act in violation of a provision of this by-law and after being 
convicted by an authorized court, the person shall be liable to a penalty under Sub-section 122 
(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
 
31. For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the context otherwise requires,
“Sabha” means the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means Chairman of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha or the person executes the 
duties of the chairman. 
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person holding the post of the Medical Officer of Health 
in the relevant area of the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
 
32. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this By-law, the Sinhala 
texts will prevail.
 
Penalty
discrepancy 
among the 
medium
bY-LAw  ON  PRIV ATE  EDUCATIONAL  INSTITUTIONS
1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect matters relating to public health in 
places where private educational institutions are maintained within the authority area of the 
Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This by-law is cited as the by-Law on Private e ducational Institutions of the Agalawatta 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987 read with the Sub-section 126(ix) of the said Act.
4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to 
as the authority area) shall maintain any building as a private educational institution except 
under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law.
5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application 
prepared in accordance with the schedule under this by-law.
6. Submission of an application under the above section can be made by fulfilling the requirements 
and submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, handing over in hand or by 
e-mail to the extent permitted by the Council.
7. It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a fixed inspection fee for site inspections to be 
carried out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to the application made under this by-law.
8. Anyone applying for a license under this By-law shall have fulfilled the following conditions 
applicable to a private educational institution herein (hereinafter referred to as premises).
(1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises shall be constructions in 
accordance with a plan approved under the Urban development Authority Act, No. 41 
of 1978 or under the Housing and Urban development ordinance.
Short title
Applying for a 
License
Inspection fees
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 142 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
142A
(2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant with the objectives for an 
educational purpose.
(3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper finishing and arranged in a manner 
that is more favorable and does not adversely affect the educational activities carried 
out on the premises.
(4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall be arranged with adequate space.
(5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper 
cleanliness.
(6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, or artificially fulfilled with the 
necessary requirements.
(7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made.
(8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premises and there shall be emergency 
exits to exit the premises in case of an emergency.
(9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platforms and they shall be well 
ventilated or air conditioned.
(10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits and shall include an additional 
exit door for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students.
(11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than fifty 
children.
(12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats shall be arranged so that they can be 
seated at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 0.75 
m long and wide.
(13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in such a way that they can be 
seated together, the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and distances mentioned 
in Section 12 above can be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables 
shall be set up to accommodate no more than six students.
(14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space between each set of seat and 
table, and the space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to move.
(15) Seats and tables shall be firmly fixed to the floor and all shall be well made and easy 
to use.
(16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that they do not retain 
organisms and every wall shall be properly finished.
(17) The premises shall have a fire protection program in place and a fire safety certificate 
shall be obtained as applicable.
(18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the premises and section without 
constructions shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition.
(19) drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a way that it easily drained without 
retaining wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central 
treatment unit.

<!-- page 143 -->

143A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises shall be installed in accordance 
with the approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at 
least 15.25 m away and it shall not be exposed to air.
(21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the premises and all latrines;
(A) Shall be provided separately for males and females.
(b) Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintain an adequate supply of water 
on a regular basis.
(C) Each latrine shall have a permanent well-fixed stainless water basin with a good 
water supply for hand washing at a specified space allocated.
9. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, 
the Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions 
under Section 8 are complied with.
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 8 are 
not complied with.
10. The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the basic Law.
11. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law, it shall be valid until december 31 of the year in which the license applies.
12. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following 
conditions herein.
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Officer 
of Health time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any part of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case 
where an epidemic has been declared applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of diseases ordinance or regulations made under it, the premises shall be maintained 
subject to all such terms.
(2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lecture halls shall be air-conditioned 
and the relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working condition in order 
to maintain a proper temperature.
(3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the lecture halls; shall be 
adequately controlled and maintained in accordance with the national environmental 
regulations.
(4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives, there shall be a specific place 
on each premises to temporarily quarantine them.
(5) Sufficient identity information including the name, addresses, and telephone numbers 
of all those studying on the premises shall be maintained, and information about the 
daily visitors shall be maintained in an identifiable manner.
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
validity period of a 
license
Information 
related to a 
license

<!-- page 144 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
144A
(6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfected and maintained.
(7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and maintained on the ground 
surface preventing water and dust retention.
(8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, water basins with adequate 
water supply shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided.
(9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is easily visible to the students 
and the students are easily visible to the lecturer.
(10) A system shall be set up to record information about those who visit the premises on 
each day when the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity 
information regarding all those who work on the premises.
(11) About employees working on the premises,
(A) If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanitary facilities and 
accommodation facilities.
(b) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and maintained separately for males 
and females.
(12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so that they can be used for 
emergencies; The staff shall be trained for that.
(13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall be controlled in accordance with 
the regulations of the Central environmental Authority.
(14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall be properly maintained; A report 
from an electrical engineer or a qualified professional shall be obtained at least once 
in every two years.
(15) A person suffering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infected or such 
a vector or an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and the license 
holder shall be satisfied that such person is not employed.
(16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in sealed garbage bins specifically 
maintained for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the 
premises; all of them shall only be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall 
be maintained on the premises for only that purpose.
(17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with a program 
implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha or the Public Health Inspector.
(18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the following actions on the premises or 
any of them or any other regulations for the benefit of public health on the advice of 
the Medical Officer of Health when required to act in the event of an outbreak of an 
epidemic under the Quarantine and Prevention of disease ordinance or a regulation 
made under it or when there is an epidemic situation in the authority area or when the 
Chairman has decided, on the advice of the Medical Officer of Health, that there are 
sufficient grounds to suspect the spread of an epidemic.
(A) That the work on the premises carried out under the licences shall be temporarily 
suspended for a period of time.

<!-- page 145 -->

145A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
(b) That an emergency response plan shall be in place on the premises.
(C) That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stopped.
(D) That the distribution of lecture leaflets by hand shall be stopped.
(E) That a specified distance shall be maintained within the premises.
(F) That to make sure that the body temperature is below the normal range, when 
entering the premises.
(G) That the air conditioner filters shall be cleaned once a week.
 
(H) That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with the Chairman related to the 
maintenance of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
(I) That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premises.
(J) That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when coughing and sneezing.
 
(K) That there shall be a specific place for food consumption and that food shall be 
consumed separately at that place.
(L) That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises shall be exhibited in an 
easily identifiable manner.
(M) That entry into the premises and exit from the premises shall be done in groups.
 
(N) That those who work on the premises shall undergo regular medical check-ups as 
prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health at regular intervals.
13. If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premises, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those shall be considered to have been 
suppressed subject to a license obtained under this by-law.
14. each premises shall display this by-law and the license obtained thereon or a copy thereof.
15. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Public Health Inspector or any other 
authorized officer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time 
to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-
law or acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing 
a specific time period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the By-law.
(2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may 
grant an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time 
period to be in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted 
so shall be subject to a maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period 
specified in the first notice.
17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event that the license holder fails to be 
comply with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 
above.
That the license 
shall be displayed.
Power to enter a 
premises
Cancellation of 
the license

<!-- page 146 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
146A
18. It is an offense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in 
violation of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate Court for 
that offense, shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, Further, after being found guilty of such an offense, if the violation continues 
even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him, he shall 
be subject to an additional penalty referred to in that Sub-section for each day of such violation. 
19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law;
  “Council” means Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the office of the Chairman of the Agalawatta Pradeshiya 
Sabha at that time or an officer who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Officer of Health” means the person who holds the office of the Medical Officer of 
Health division relevant to the authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the office of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Pradeshiya Sabha or the office of the Medical Officer of Health relevant to the 
authority area of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
"basic Law" means the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this By-law 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Penalty
Definitions
Inconsistency 
between texts
Schedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the Year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address of the private educational institution: - 
07. Grama Niladhari division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the private educational institution is registered, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the private educational institution,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 

<!-- page 147 -->

147A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'11'21
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.11.2022
11. Approved building plan number and date: -
12. Number and Date of the Certificate of Conformity: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
date: -              
                                               ……………………………….
                                                                                                                                                  Signature of the applicant
For office use
revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
date: -                                    .................................
                                                                                                                                                                      Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
date :-                        …………………………….
                                                                                                                                                            revenue Inspector
Medical Officer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the application 
mentioned on the back.
date:-                                                                                   .................................
                                                                                                                                                                       Secretary
Medical Officer of Health,
eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance of licenses.
date :-                                                  
                                                                                                                                                     .........................................
                                                                                                                                                       Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
date:-                                                                         ..........................................
                                                                                                                                                    Medical Officer of Health
eoG 11 - 0243
PRinteD at the DePaRtMent oF GoVeRnMent PRintinG,  sRi lanka.