

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th April 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st  March , 2023.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
   
 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 110
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"325 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'03'24                            
 No. 2,325 - FRiDAy ,  MARCh  24, 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
109 -   B 082439 - 353 (03/2023)
Page Page
Note :    inland Revenue (Amendment) bill is published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 10, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'24
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 24.03.2023
110
miscellaneous  land notices
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/70401.
Provincial Land Commissioner's No.: SPLC/
GAL/03/03/03/214.
notIfIcatIon  made  under  state  
land  regulatIon no. 21(2)
iT is hereby notified that for the  purpose of Commercial, 
Jasin Basthiyan Arachchige Upul Priyananda has requested 
on lease a state land containing in extent about 0.291 hectare 
out of extent marked Lot No. 570 as depicted in the F.V .P. 
604, situated in the Village of Ambana with belongs to the 
Grama Niladhari Division of 94 L, Ambana North, coming 
within the area of authority of Alpittiya Divisional Secretariat 
in the District of Galle.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested:
On the North by    : Lot No. 571;
On the East by    : Lot No. 571;
On the South by   : Lot Nos. 571 and 569;
On the West by    : Lot Nos. 569 and 571.
 The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, The Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions:
 ( a)  Terms of the lease: Thirty (30)  years (From 17.01.2023 
years Onwards)
  The Annual rent of the lease : 2% of the prevailing  
market value of the land, on occasions when the 
assessed value of the land as per the valuation of the 
chief valued for that year is lower than Rupees Five 
Million (Rs. 5,000,000.00) assessed value for the Lease 
commencing year 4% of the prevailing market value 
of the land on occasion when the assessed value of as 
per the valuation of the chief valuer for that year is 
higher than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000.00) 
assessed value for the Lease commencing year this 
amount of the lease must be quinquennily revised in 
such a manner that 20% should be added to the final 
annual rental of the preceding 5 years.
 (b)  The lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as 
to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary;
 ( c)  The lessee must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the purpose of Commercial ;
 ( d) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/ Scoping committee/ Board of investment 
of Sri Lanka and by other institutions;
 ( e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 ( f)   Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of lessees to substantiate within the 
specified time frame the purpose for which the land was 
obtained, action will be taken to terminate the lease;
 ( g)  No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years 17.01.2023;
 ( h)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested.
  
 M. H. a. T. MadHusHani, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
20th February, 2023.
03-565
___________________
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/67895.
Provincial Land Commissioner General's No. : NCP/PLC/
L07/10/04/02.
notIfIcatIon  made  under state  land  
regulatIon no. 21(2)
iT is hereby notified that for the  Commercial purpose, D. A. 
R. E. Com solar Pvt. Ltd. has requested on lease a state land 
containing in extent about hect. 1.1938 in Lot No. 01 depicted 
in tracing No. 5360 drawn by Village Officer and situated in 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'24
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 24.03.2023
111
the Village of Thariyankulama which belongs to the Grama 
Niladhari Division No. 280, Thariyankulama coming within 
the area of the authority of Nuwaragama Divisional Secretariat 
in the District of Anuradhapura.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested:
On the North by    : Land belongs to indika;
On the East by    : Part of land reserved to hypertension 
   line;
On the South by   : Land belongs to the Nirmala 
   Roshika and Jothipala;
On the West by    : Land belongs to the Adman and 
   Sooriyasena.
 The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, The Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions:
 ( a)  Term of the lease: Thirty (30)  years (From the date 
07.10.2022 onwards)
  Annual rent : 2% of the prevailing  market value of 
the land as per as the valuation of the chief Valuer 
for the year 2022, when the annual value is less than 
Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000) for that year. 
4% of the prevailing market value of the land, as per 
the valuation of the chief Valuer for the year,  when 
the annual value of the land is more than Rupees Five 
Million (Rs. 5,000,000) for that year. The lease amount 
should be revised once in every Five years and 20% 
of the year lease amount charged in the final year of 
the preceding 05 years period should be added to the 
annual lease amount.
  Premium : Premium will not be charged.
  (b)  The lessees must, within one year (01) of the 
commencement of the lease, develop the said land, in 
such a manner as to captivate the mind of the Divisional 
Secretariat;
 ( c)  The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other 
than for the Commercial Purpose;
 ( d) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and other institutions;
 ( e)  The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 ( f)   Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of lessees to substantiate within the 
specified time frame the purpose for which the land was 
obtained, action will be taken to terminate the lease;
 ( g)  No permission will be granted except the within family 
transactions will be granted for the sub-leasing or 
transfers until the expiry of 05 years from 07.10.2022;
 ( h)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six (06) weeks of the date which this notice is 
published in Gazette to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as 
requested.
  
 d. d. n a voTHya  C. K arunara THna , 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
09th March, 2023.
03-882
PRiNTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANkA.