

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
Pൺ඀ൾ
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1234 
    Pൺ඀ൾ
Posts - Vacant … … … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"231 – 2021 cqks ui 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'06'04
No. 2,231 –  FRIDAY ,  JUNE  04, 2021
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are here by advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by givin g adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th June, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th June, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gൺඇ඀ൺඇං  Lංඒൺඇൺ඀ൾ,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1231 - B 82236 - 5,403 (06/2021)      
N. B.–   (i) Part  II, III and IV(B) of the Gazette No. 2230 of 28.05.2021 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1232
1. General Qualifi cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defi ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualifi cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certifi  cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certifi  cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certifi  cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Offi  cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed offi  cial language 
profi ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifi cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
profi ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All offi  cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public offi  cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Offi  cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Offi  cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Offi   cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Offi  cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public offi  cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give eff ect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public offi  cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the offi  cial languages.
3:1:4  Confi rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an offi  cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Profi ciency Test in one 
of the Offi  cial Languages within one year; Grade II Profi ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Profi ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such offi  cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain profi  ciency in one of the 
offi  cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
profi ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Offi  cer already confi rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Offi  cers may in the  fi rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specifi ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Offi  cer to test their physical fi tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public offi  cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public offi  cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Offi  cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those offi  cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Offi  cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Offi  cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from offi  cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifi cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Offi  cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to infl uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualifi cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Defi nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with eff ect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1233
RULES AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXAMINATION CANDIDATES
All examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1 976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
The following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed th rough the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the Commissioner General Examinations.
All examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules give n below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the  following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 I. Debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it  which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examinati on which was under 
investigation.
 III. Imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 IV . Debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the  Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . Issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certiﬁ  cate for a speciﬁ c period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to ﬁ  le a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations Act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 VIII. When the examination candidate is a government employee,  reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary a ctions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the r ight to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed ﬁ nal.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction s hould not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staﬀ  as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the  examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staﬀ .
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the ins tructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staﬀ   when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination  hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. Also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. Actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective Index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the  special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat . The occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be consider ed as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. Absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. A candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staﬀ .
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identiﬁ ed through 
the candidate’s Index Number, it is completely prohibited to wr ite one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the an swer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
Further, writing other examination candidate’s Index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scri pts bearing Index Numbers 
those are diﬃ
  cult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) s upplied at the examination 
hall. Acting non- compliance with these instructions will be co nsidered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. Any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. It is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. If a question has  been answered twice in two 
diﬀ erent places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. It is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material  supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. All such materials are belonged to the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in t he examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other  note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answ ering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examina tion. Also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such ins truments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examina tion is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable oﬀ ences.
11. In case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/de vices will be taken 
into the custody of the Commissioner General of Examinations un til the investigations are 
concluded.
12. After sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possess ion prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staﬀ   
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she ha s with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as a n attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an oﬀ ence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. Also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staﬀ  are also oﬀ ences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowe d to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an oﬃ  cer belongs to the assistant staﬀ  of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examinati on hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. Impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. Tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishones t manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious oﬀ ence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 I. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in ca se there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject in dicated in the 
admission paper.
 II. It is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certai n of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior  to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get the ir identities conﬁ rmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 ( a) Actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a can didate fails to 
produce the identiﬁ cation documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arra ngements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 ( b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recogn izable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 IV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and i n a clearly visible 
manner so as to conﬁ  rm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall sh ould be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be  left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 VI. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencil s, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 VII. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the Index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. You should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. You should provide answers in a  fresh page for 
each question.
 VIII. The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to  enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. Actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 IX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details  of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. The 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be ac curate and 
suﬃ  ciently large.
 X. You should read carefully the instructions given at the hea d of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other que stions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 XI. At the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page num ber and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior  to handing 
over the answer script. Any answer sheet taken out of the exami nation centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 XII. Your answer script should be handed over to the examinati on supervisor or 
to an oﬃ  cer of his/her staﬀ . You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. Failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 XIII. If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examinat ion supervisor or an 
oﬃ  cer of his/her staﬀ  due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
Commissioner General of the Examinations.
At the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1234
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
STATE MINISTRY OF SKILLS 
DEVELOPMENT, VOCATIONAL, 
EDUCATION, RESEARCH AND INNOV ATION
Ceylon - German  Technical  Training Institute - 
Moratuwa 
ADMISSION FOR THE FULL TIME COURSES UNDER 
THE NATIONAL APPRENTICESHIP SCHEME  - 2021
APPLICATIONS are invited from Male and Female 
candidates who hold following minimum Qualiﬁ cations for 
the admission of Year 2021. 
01.   (a)   Age.– Between 16 - 22 years as at 31.03.2021.
 ( b)  Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the                           
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including Sinhala/
Tamil language (Medium of Instruction) and 
Mathematics in one sitting. 
  Or
  Passed in 06 subjects at the London (O/L) 
Examination including English language and 
Mathematics in one sitting. 
Applicants who have special skills .– Candidates who 
have placed among ﬁ rst three places in a Provincial level 
competition or obtain a certiﬁ  cate of merit or above by a 
National Competition of Sri Lanka Inventors Commission 
in Electrical/Electronic/Mechanical ﬁ  elds and candidates 
who have completed the above Section (b) qualiﬁ  cations 
with not less than two attempts are also qualiﬁ  ed to sit for 
the examination. 
Note.– Candidates following full time courses at 
National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority (NAITA) and bonded for period of 03 
years or more are not eligible to apply for these 
full time courses. 
02. Course Medium .– All courses are conducted in 
Sinhala medium. Only Automobile course will conduct in 
Tamil medium too. Opportunity will be provided to follow 
other courses to the Tamil Medium students, who have 
ability in Sinhala language. London G. C. E. Ordinary Level 
qualiﬁ cation holders will be allowed to follow courses in 
Sinhala/Tamil Medium. 
03. Entrance Examination.– Applicants who possess the 
requisite minimum qualiﬁ cations will be allowed to sit for 
the admission test provided examination fees referred to in 
Column 4 below have been paid. 
 ( a)  Medium.– Sinhala/Tamil. 
 ( b)  Examination Centers .– A written examination 
for admission will be conducted at the Centers in 
Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla, Anuradhapura and 
Vavuniya as indicated in the application. 
  Kindly note that if an adequate Number of candidates 
are not available at particular centers then the 
management reserve the right to change the centers 
by accommodating such applications according to 
the preference of the candidate.
Examination Subjects .– The examination will consist 
of two question papers based on Mathematics, General 
knowledge, Intelligence test, Technical knowledge, English 
knowledge and Technical Drawing. 
04. Examination Fees. – Applicants should pay Rupees 
Five Hundred only (Rs. 500/-) as examination fees. Paying 
voucher of the Bank should be attached to the application. 
The application should be forwarded together with the 
paying voucher of the Bank. 
Payment.– The payment can be made to any Bank of 
Ceylon Branch to the Accountant, Ceylon German Technical 
Training Institute which credit to Account Number 681490 
maintained at Moratuwa Branch. Paying vouchers that 
defaced or erased will not be accepted. Application which 
does not contain a credit voucher to the value will be rejected. 
Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates those 
who are not appearing for the examination or on rejection of 
their applications for any other reason. 
05. Primary Selection.– Primary selection of candidates 
for admission will be merit based on the written examination 
and those who obtain the required highest marks will be 
called for interview to the ﬁ  nal selection. Cutoﬀ   marks 
for less privileged provinces would be decided by the 
Management of CGTTI. (Less privileged provinces are 
decided according to Sri Lanka Examination Department). 
06. Final Selection.– Those who obtained highest marks 
from aptitude test and interview would be considered for 
ﬁ nal selection. 40% marks are allocated for aptitude test 
and 60% for the interview. Extra Curricular activities are 
specially considered. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1235
The selected candidates will have to go through a medical 
examination and those who fail the medical test will be 
discontinued. 
07. Training Courses :
Serial 
No.
Course Duration
01 Automobile 04 years
02 Millwright/Fitter 04 years
03 Power Electrical 03 1/2 years
04 Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration 03 1/2 years
05 Tool Machinery 03 1/2 years
06 Mechatronic Technology (Industrial) 03 1/2 years
07 Auto Air conditioning 03 years
08 Auto Electrical 03 years
09 Diesel Mechanic 03 years
10 Welding 03 years
11 Motor Vehicle Body Repairer and 
Painter
03 years
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the above 
mentioned courses of training depending on the aptitude 
they show in the trade selection test conducted after ﬁ  rst 
year of basic training. 
08. Bond to be signed .– All selected candidates are 
required to enter in to a bond to undergo full time training at 
CGTTI for periods ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years in their 
allocated Trades and enter in to agreement with the National 
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) as 
per their requirements. 
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared 
as per the specimen form given below (A4 size) and photo 
copies of the following certiﬁ cates should also be attached 
with the application :
 ( a) Birth Certiﬁ cate ;
 ( b) Educational Certiﬁ cates ;
 ( c) Applicants who apply under special skills should 
forward the certiﬁ  cate of Provincial/National 
level competition issued by Sri Lanka Inventors 
Commission. 
The envelope in which application is enclosed should 
be marked, "Recruitment of Apprentice - 20201" on the top                
left-hand corner. 
Obtaining Application Form :
 *  By down-loading via the institute's web 
site (www.cgtti.lk)
 *  By visiting to the institute.
 *  By sending a self address envelope with 
stamp to the institute.
10.  Closing date of applications. – Applications 
should be sent to The Manager - Administration and Human 
Resources Ceylon German Technical Training Institute, No. 
582, Galle Road, Mount Lavinia, by Registered Post on or 
before 20th July, 2021. 
11. Admission Cards .– Admission cards for the 
examination will be sent to all qualiﬁ ed candidates on around 
10th September, 2021. If any candidate does not receive the 
admission card, contact over the telephone number given 
below within 14 days from the date. 
 Manager, 
 Administration and Human Resources. 
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute, 
No. 582, Galle Road, 
Mount Lavinia (Angulana Junction), 
Telephone No. : 0112605625.
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO FULL-TIME COURSES  - 2021
(UNDER THE NATIONAL APPRENTICESHIP – SCHEME)
Cൾඒඅඈඇ Gൾඋආൺඇ Tൾർඁඇංർൺඅ Tඋൺංඇංඇ඀ Iඇඌඍංඍඎඍൾ - Mඈඋൺඍඎඐൺ
For Oﬃ  ce Q DQ Index Interview Training
use only   No. No. No.
* Use Block Capitals when ﬁ lling the form in English.
* Use () to complete 03 (d) and 06 (a, b).

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1236
01.  (a) Full Name :
   (Sinhala)      
  ( b) Full Name :
   (English) 
  ( c) Name with initials : 
   (English)
02.  (a) Postal Address :
   (Sinhala)
  ( b) Postal Address :
   (English)
  ( c) District  ( d) Divisional  ( e) Province 
      Secretariat 
  ( f) E-mail address : ( g) Phone Number :   Mobile
       Residence
03.  (a) Date of Birth :  ( b) Age as at 31.03.2021 :   
   Year                            Month               Date      Years      Months  Days
  ( c) NIC No. :  ( d) Sex : (*)    Female             Male
04. Educational Qualiﬁ cations  G. C. E. (O/L) :    
  One sitting :    Second sitting (only for special skills appl icants) :
  Index No.  Year Index No.  Year
  Subject Grade  Subject Grade 
 
   

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1237
05. Specify the ﬁ  eld and year of issue of the certiﬁ cate (Provincial/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, 
if the candidate is applying under the special skills category  : 
  Year :             Field :
06. ( a) Medium at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission tes t (*) :  Sinhala Tamil
 ( b) Center at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission tes t (*) :
  Colombo Kandy Galle Badulla  Anuradhapura  Vavuniya
07. ( a) Bank where the Examination fees were paid to    ( b) Date :
08. I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me  are true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are 
found to be false or incorrect, liable for disqualiﬁ cation/dismissal before or after selection. 
 
 Signature         Date
For Oﬃ  ce use only
 ( a) Attached a copy of the bank Receipt Yes No
 ( b) Attached copies of Educational Certiﬁ cates Yes No
 ( c) Attached a copy of the Birth Certiﬁ cate Yes No
 ( d) Attached certiﬁ cate of special skills mentioned Yes No Not Relevant
  under (05)
 ( e) Age limit - 16 OK 22+
 ( f) Qualiﬁ ed to sit the Admission test  Yes No
 ( g) Checked by
06–26

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1238
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Ministry of Public Services, Provincial Councils and Local Government
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRAD E III OF SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC  
SERVICE  2018(2021)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualiﬁ ed oﬃ  cers in the Public Service on the order of the Public Service Commission for 
the Limited Competitive Examination to be held to ﬁ  ll 15 vacancies in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientiﬁ  c Service existing 
in the departments mentioned above. This examination will be he ld in September 2021. Applications prepared in line 
with the specimen application given at the end of the examinati on notiﬁ cation should be sent via registered post to reach 
‘‘Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization (institutional examinations) Branch, Department of Examinations, 
PO Box 1503, Colombo" on or before the closing date of applicat ion. The words “Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientiﬁ c Service- 2018 (2021)” should be clearly indicated on the top left corner of 
the envelope in which the applications are sent. Further, the title of the examination should be indicated in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
S/N Department in which the
Vacancy exists Designation No of
Vacancies
Code 
No.
01 Department of Archeology Assistant Director (Chemical  Conservation) 01 01
02 Department Of National Botanical  Gardens Assistant Director 05 02
03 Department of Export Agriculture
Assistant Director (Development) 04 03
Assistant Director (Research) 05 04
(a) Closing date of application is 05.07.2021.
Note.—No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. The candidate 
shall bear the losses which may occur due to their delay in sending applications until the closing date.
1. Method of Recruitment to Service.– Based on the results of the written examination, the candidates who get 40% 
or higher marks for each question paper shall be recruited on the order of the highest marks. The number of candidates to be 
interviewed shall be determined by the Public Service Commission and the qualiﬁ cations of the applicants will be examined 
by an Interview Board approved by the Public Service Commission. Interviews shall be held as per the recruitment procedures 
of each department, i.e. a structured interview for the post be longing to Department of Archeology, a general interview for 
the posts belonging to the Department Of National Botanical Gardens and the Department of Export Agriculture. 
 
2. Conditions of Employment in Service :
 (i) This post in permanent and pensionable. Contributions shal l be made to widows and orphans/ widowers 
and orphans’ pension scheme.
 (ii) Oﬃ   cers who are appointed to this post are subject to an acting period of one year and they shall pass the 
ﬁ rst Eﬃ  ciency Bar Examination within three (03) years of recruitment.
 (iii) Proﬁ  ciency in oﬃ  cial languages must be obtained within 05 years of recruitmen t to the post as per the 
Public Administration Circular No 18/2020 and subsequent circulars.
 (iv) The language medium in which you are eligible for appoint ment is the language medium you mentioned 
in the application.
 (v) This appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules of t he Public Service Commission, Establishment 
Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial R egulations of the government and the 
provisions in the Circulars issued from time to time.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1239
 vi. This appointment is subject to the terms and conditions of  the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Scientiﬁ  c 
Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28th August 2014 and the revisions 
made to the same, the terms and conditions of the approved recr uitment procedures in the relevant 
departments for the relevant post.
3. Salary Scale.- The monthly salary scale applicable to this post as per Sche dule I of the Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs.47615-10x 1335-8x1630-17x2170-110895/- (SL-1- 2016).
4. Educational Qualiﬁ cations and Experience :
S/N A ﬀ airs Post Quali ﬁ cations
01 Department 
of 
Archeology
Assistant
Director
(Chemical
Conservation)
Shall have obtained a Bachelor of Science Special or General de gree from a 
University recognized by the University Grants Commission.
And
Shall be an oﬃ  cer in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service with a satisfactory 
service period of 05 years or an Oﬃ  cer in Special Grade of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service.
02 Department 
of National 
Botanical 
Gardens
Assistant 
Director
(I) Should be an oﬃ   cer who has completed 05 years of active and satisfactory 
service with Bachelor of Science degree in Botany, Biology or A gricultural 
from a University recognized by the University Grants Commissio n, who 
receives a salary under salary code MN 04.
or
(II) Shall be an oﬃ   cer promoted to Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service 
attached to the Department of National Botanical Gardens who has completed 
05 years of active and satisfactory service in Grade I.
or
(III) Shall be an oﬃ   cer in Special Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service 
attached to the Department of National Botanical Gardens
03 Department 
of Export 
Agriculture
Assistant 
Director 
(Research)
(a) Shall  be a Research Assistant in Special Grade of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service 
or
(b) Shall have ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service as a Grade I Research 
Assistant in the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
or
(c) Shall have a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) degree in the ﬁ  eld of Agriculture and 
have completed ﬁ ve (05) years of active and satisfactory service as a Research 
Assistant Oﬃ  cer, Grade II, Sri Lanka Technological Service, Department of  
Export Agriculture. 
Assistant 
Director 
(Development) 
(a) Shall be a Farm Manager or an Extension Oﬃ  cer in Special Grade of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service 
or
(b) Shall have ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service as a Farm Manager or 
Extension Oﬃ  cer in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service
or
(c) Shall have a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) degree in the ﬁ  eld of Agriculture and 
have completed ﬁ ve (05) years of active and satisfactory service as a Farm 
Manager or Extension Oﬃ  cer in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service, 
Department of Export Agricutlure

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1240
5. Age Limit : NA
6. Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should be physically and mentally ﬁ t to work in any part of Sri Lanka and perform
the duties of the post.
7. Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 (i) Applicants shall be citizens of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Applicant shall be of an excellent character
 (iii) All the qualiﬁ  cations required for recruitment to the post shall have been c ompleted in all respects by the 
closing date of applications mentioned in the Gazette Notiﬁ cation of calling for applications.
 (iv) Shall have not been subjected to disciplinary punishment as per the provisions in the Public Service 
Commission Circular No 01/2020.
 (v) Shall have not appeared for the written examination more t han two sittings.
8. Written Examination :
8.1.1.  This examination is held by the Commissioner General of  Examinations.
Question Paper Duration Total Score Pass Marks
1. Intelligence Test 1 hour 100 40
2. Subject Related Knowledge 3 hours 100 40
8.1.2. Syllabus :
Name of the
Question Paper Syllabus
Intelligence Test
This question paper is designed to determine the candidate's reasoning 
ability, general intelligence and decision making ability and will consist of 50 
questions of multiple choice and short answer type questions. All questions 
should be answered. This is a common paper for all Departments.
Subject Related
Knowledge
A question paper prepared separately for each department according to the 
syllabus mentioned in the recruitment procedures of each Department.
8.2 Interview :
8.2.1 General Interview: (No marks shall be allocated)
8.2.2 Structured Interview
 The following marking scheme shall be followed for the Departm ent of Archeology and the detailed
marking scheme shall be communicated to the applicants when they are called for interview.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1241
i. Department of Archeology
Main Titles to which marks are
allocated
Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Additional Educational
Qualiﬁ cations:
40
Not 
Applicable
For additional period of service 35
Computer skills 10
Language Proﬁ ciency: 10
Skills proven at the Interview 05
09. Conditions of Examination :
 I. The Examination shall be held in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English. Candidates can sit for the
examination in one of the languages of their 
choice. Candidates should answer all the
question papers of the examination in the same 
language. Candidate will not be allowed to
change the language medium mentioned in his 
/ her application. Each candidate must appear
for both question papers.
 II. Examination Fee is Rs. 600.00 This fee 
should be paid at the Post Oﬃ   ce/ Sub Post
Oﬃ  ce/District  Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat 
to be credited to revenue head 20-03-02-13.
and an edge of the receipt obtained thus 
should be aﬃ  xed in the relevant cage of the
application.
  It would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
receipt.
 III. This fee shall not be refunded under any 
circumstances and transferred to pay any other
examination fee. Money orders and stamps will 
not be accepted.
 IV . The application should be prepared on a paper 
of size 21-29 cm (A-4) that the cages 1.0 to
3.11 appear on the ﬁ  rst side of the paper and 
cages 3:12 onwards appear on the other pages.
Relevant details should be ﬁ lled by the applicant 
himself/ herself in his/her handwriting.
  Applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that are not completed in every 
aspect shall be rejected without notice. It would 
be advisable to keep a copy of the application. 
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make 
sure that the application form perfected by him/ 
her complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice as otherwise the application 
may be rejected.
Note: For your convenience, the properly 
prepared examination application 
form can be downloaded from the 
oﬃ  cial website of the Ministry of 
Public Services, Provincial Councils 
and Local Government (www.pubad.
gov.lk).
  Penalty for Furnishing False Information:-  
Careful and accurate information must be 
provided when ﬁ  lling out applications. If 
a candidate is found to be ineligible, his 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any 
stage prior to, during or after the examination.
 V . Receipt of applications shall not be 
acknowledged. Admission cards shall be issued 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, 
on the presumption that only those who 
possess qualiﬁ cations indicated in the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation have forwarded their applications. 
A notiﬁ cation will be published in newspapers 
by the Department of Examinations as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to candidates If 
the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall 
be taken to notify the Organization Examination 
Branch of the Department of Examinations in 
the manner speciﬁ ed in the advertisement. It 
would be advisable to keep the following in 
hand at the time of calling the Department of 
Examinations: i.e. a certiﬁ ed photocopy of the 
application form and the receipt kept at your 
possession, receipt of registration and, in case 
of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request 
furnishing a fax number to which the admission 
cards should be sent.
Note: A candidate who fails to produce 
his admission card shall not be 
permitted to sit the examination. 
A candidate presenting himself 
for the examination must produce 
his admission card on which his 
signature has been attested to the 
supervisor of the examination center.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1242
 VI. Commissioner General of Examinations 
reserves the right to postpone or cancel the 
examination on the approval of the Public 
Service Commission.
 VII. Candidates are subjected to rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination. They are liable to be subjected to 
a punishment imposed by him/her for breach of 
these rules.
 VIII. A candidate will be required to prove his identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he oﬀ  ers. For this 
purpose, any of the following documents shall 
be accepted:- 
 I. National Identity Card
 II. Valid Passport
 III. Valid Sri Lankan Driving License
Candidates should be dressed in a manner which 
exposes the full face (including ears) ensuring their clear 
identiﬁ cation. The candidates, who refuse to prove their 
identity in the said manner shall not be allowed to enter the 
examination hall. Further, candidates should remain in the 
examination hall from the moment of entering and leaving 
the examination hall without covering the face and ears 
enabling the examiners to identify them easily.
N.B.– (a) No document or a copy should be attached to 
the application.
 ( b)  Application of the candidates who fail to 
submit the relevant documents at the time of 
submission of the required documents will 
not be considered .
10. All the applicants should send their applications 
through respective Heads of Departments/ Institutions. All 
the applicants should get his/her signature attested by the 
respective Head of the Institution.
11. This examination notiﬁ  cation will be published in 
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
 J. J. Rൺඍඁඇൺඌංඋං,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Services, Provincial  
 Councils and Local Government.
21st May, 2021,
Ministry of Public Services, Provincil Councils and 
Local Government,
Independence Square, 
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
(Only for Oﬃ  ce use)  
Lංආංඍൾൽ Cඈආඉൾඍංඍංඏൾ Eඑൺආංඇൺඍංඈඇ ൿඈඋ Rൾർඋඎංඍආൾඇඍ ඍඈ Gඋൺൽൾ III ඈൿ Sඋං Lൺඇ඄ൺ Sർංൾඇඍංൿංർ Sൾඋඏංർൾ - 2018(2021)
01. Language medium of examination :
 (Write relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
 (Application should be ﬁ  lled in the language medium in which the candidate appears for the examination)
02. Post applied for :
Preference No. Designation Code No.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1243
03. Personal Details :
  3.1 Name in full (In English Block Capitals) : .............. ..............................................................................................
   ( Ex. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA )
  3.2 Name with initials at the end (In English Block Capitals)  (In English Block Capitals) :
   Mr./Mrs./Miss : ............................................ ..........................................................................................................
   ( Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  3.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) : ....................... ...................................................................................................
  3.4 Permanent Address (In English Block Capitals) : ......... ........................................................................................
   (to which the admission card should be sent)
  3.5 Permanent Address  : .................................... .........................................................................................................
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
  3.6 Postal City : ........................................... ................................................................................................................
  3.7 National Identity Card No. :
  3.8 Sex :        Female  1             Male     0                     (Write in the relevant cage)
  3.9 Telephone No. : Mobile :
    Fixed :
  3.10 Date of Birth :         Year :                                Month :                   Date :
  3.11 Age as at the closing date of applications :   Years :                     Months :                       Days :
  3.12 Ethnicity : Sinhala - 1     Tamil - 2      Indian Tamil - 3           Muslim - 4       Other - 5
   (Write relevant number in the cage)
  3.13 Marital Status :            Married - 1            Unmar ried - 2
   (Write relevant number in the cage)
  3.14 E-mail Address : ....................................... .............................................................................................................
04. Qualiﬁ cations :
  4.1 Eﬀ  ective date of the Degree : ................................................................................................................................
   (Please read Section 4 of the notice carefully to see whethe r qualiﬁ ed) 
Examination/Degree Class Year Subjects University/Institution
05. Particulars of the service in the present service station :
  5.1 Post held at present : .................................. ............................................................................................................
  5.2 Grade : ................................................. ..................................................................................................................

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1244
  5.3 Date of Appointment : ................................... ........................................................................................................
  5.4 Date of Conﬁ  rmation : ...........................................................................................................................................
06. Receipt is to be aﬃ  xed here so as not to be detached :
Please keep a photocopy of the receipt.
  6.1 Receipt No. : ........................................... ...............................................................................................................
  6.2 Post Oﬃ   ce to which the payment was made : .......................................................................................................
  6.3 Date : .................................................. ...................................................................................................................
07. Whether subjected to a disciplinary punishment and if prove d guilty for a criminal oﬀ ense at a court of Law, details of 
that oﬀ ense/disciplinary punishment : ...............................................................................................................................
08. Certiﬁ cation of the Applicant :
I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this app lication are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge and I hereby declare that I further also declare that  I will be abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of examinations and the issuance of results. 
 ...................................,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date :......................
09. Certiﬁ cation of the Head of the Department :
I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................................... who submits this application has earned all the salary 
increments in the ﬁ ve years immediately preceding ............................... ......... (except the increments which is a condition 
of passing service or departmental examinations) and he/she has  not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (other 
than warnings), that the particulars mentioned in this application are true as per his/her personal ﬁ les, he/she is qualiﬁ ed to 
sit for the examination as per the regulations in relevant Gazette notiﬁ cation, the oﬃ  cer has paid the prescribed examination 
fee and pasted the receipt on the applications and further he/she can be released from the post held at present in case he/she 
is selected to this post. 
 ...................................,
 Signature of the Head of Department. 
Date :...................... 
Name :..................... 
Post :...................... 
Address :..................... 
(Should be conﬁ rmed by an Oﬃ  cial Frank)
06-81

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1245
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION 
FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE 
SRI LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE 
SERVICE - 2020/2021
By order of the Education Service Committee of 
The Public Service Commission 
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the 
Education Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission, from oﬃ   cers who possess following 
qualiﬁ cations for the limited competitive examination to 
ﬁ ll 442 existing vacancies in Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Education Administrative Service in the General Carder 
and Special Carder. Applications prepared according to the 
specimen application form given at the end of this notice 
should be forwarded on or before the date given below to 
the Commissioner General of Examinations, Institutional 
Examinations Organization Branch, Department of 
Examinations, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo under registered 
cover. The top left hand corner of the envelope should 
bare “Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
Service – 2020/2021”. Further, the name of the examination 
in applications of Sinhala medium should also be written in 
English while in applications of Tamil medium, the name of 
the examination should also be written in English.
The closing date of applications: 30.07.2021  
No complaints shall be considered to the eﬀ  ect that an 
application or related documents connected therewith were 
lost or delayed in the post. Any loss that may cause due to 
the delay in submitting the application until the closing date 
will have to be borne by the applicants, themselves.
1. Method of Recruitment :
(a) From the candidates who sat for all papers of the 
written test, those candidates who are qualiﬁ  ed 
shall be called for the viva voce examination. 
From the candidates, who score minimum 
marks of 40% to each paper, the total number of 
candidates called for the viva voce examination 
would be equal to twice the number that is 
expected to recruit as per the vacancies existing 
for each subject under general cadre or special 
cadre. The marks scored by candidates for the 
written examination will not be made to the 
panel of viva voce examiners. The criteria of 
marks for the viva voce examination are given 
in the paragraph No 10.2 of this notiﬁ cation. The 
vacancies in Grade III shall be ﬁ  lled in keeping 
with the order of merit of total marks obtained 
for the written examination and the viva voce 
examination. The Education Service Committee 
of the Public Service Commission has the right to 
ﬁ ll all or a certain number of vacancies.
(b) Selected candidates from the Limited 
Competitive Examination are bound to serve in 
any province of the country and shall be placed 
for the following vacancies existing in any of the 
provinces.  
Table 01:  Vacancies available for recruitment to the 
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service Grade III on 
Limited Basis. (2020 / 2021)
Subject No. of 
Vacancies
General Cadre 45
Special Cadre
Sinhala 39
Tamil 21
English 25
Mathematics 20
Science 29
Commerce 04
Information Technology 21
Physical Education 34
Christianity / Catholicism 03
Hinduism 05
Student Guidance and Counseling 24
Special Education 11
Planning 52
Primary Education 29
History 29
Aesthetics 24
Engineering Technology 09
Biosystems Technology 18
Total 442  
2. Conditions of employment in the service :
 (i) Subject to the conditions set out in the service 
minute of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
Service, published in the Gazette Extra-ordinary 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1246
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1928/28 d ated 21.08.2015, and the amendments made 
thereafter to the said service minute, and subject to the general conditions governing appointments to the public 
service, the selected candidates shall be appointed to Grade III of the service. The medium in which the candidates 
take the recruitment examination shall be the medium of recruitment.
 (ii) This post is permanent and selected applicants should con tribute to the Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ 
Pension Scheme (W&OP). However, oﬃ  cers recruited to this post are subject to the policy decisions on pension 
schemes that will be made by the government.
 (iii)  Oﬃ   cers appointed to this post are subject to a probationary period of one (01) year.
 (iv) Language Proﬁ  ciency :
Language Expected Pro ﬁ ciency 
National Language Oﬃ  cers who joined the service in a language other than an oﬃ   cial language should 
obtain proﬁ ciency in one oﬃ  cial language prior to be made permanent in the post.
Other National 
Language
In accordance with the provisions of Public Administrative Circ ulars 18/2020 and 
circulars thereof, the level of proﬁ  ciency in respect of the other language should be 
obtained.
Link Language Within three (03) years of the date of recruitment , the proﬁ ciency in the link language 
(English Language) should be obtained. Annexure 7 of the service minute of Sri Lanka 
Education Administrative Service describes the relevant examination on link language.
 (v) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, Cir culars issued from time to time governing the Public 
Service and the stipulations of the Service Minute of the Sri L anka Education Administrative Service with its 
amendments are applicable to this post.
 (vi) The oﬃ   cers appointed to this post shall be placed as per existing service requirements to the relevant posts in the 
central government or Provincial Public Service. 
3.  Salary Scale.- This post is entitled to the salary scale as per (SL-01-2016) , Rs. 47,615 – 10 x 1335 - 8 x 1630 - 17 x 
2170 -110,895/- (monthly) in terms of the Public Administrative Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016.
4. Eligibility.- Oﬃ  cers who have adequately fulﬁ lled the following qualiﬁ cations and belong to The Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service, Sri Lanka Principals’ Service, Sri Lanka In -Service A dvisors’ Service, Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 
currently serving in state / provincial public service and Teachers, Principals and Chief Incumbents of government assisted 
Pirivenas and Private Schools who belong to permanent service are eligible to appear for the limited competitive examination. 
Note 01.— This privilege granted for the teachers serving in Pirivenas and Government Assisted Private Schools 
should not be considered as a right for them to be considered as oﬃ  cers in public service.  
 
4.1 Educational Qualiﬁ cations -
(a) General Cadre
 (i) A graduate from a university or any other degree awarding institution recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or National Institute of Education.
  OR 
 (ii)  Have obtained the National Diploma in Teaching or Traine d Teachers’ Certiﬁ cate.
(b) Special Cadre
 (i) A graduate from a university or any other degree awarding institution recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or National Institute of Education for the relevant subject; (Refer to Note 02 & 
03).

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1247
  O R
 (ii) Have obtained the National Diploma 
in Teaching or Trained Teachers’ 
Certiﬁ cate for the relevant subject, 
  O R
 (iii) For Engineering Technology 
under the Technology Stream have 
obtained, the four year Higher 
National Diploma in Engineering 
(HNDE) oﬀ ered by the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Advanced Technological 
Education, OR three year National 
Diploma in Technology (NDT) 
oﬀ ered by the University of 
Moratuwa, OR the four-year 
National Diploma on Engineering 
(NDES) oﬀ  ered by the Institute 
of Engineering Technology, 
Katunayake, OR the Diploma in 
Technology (DT) oﬀ  ered by The 
Open University of Sri Lanka, 
OR the National V ocational 
Qualiﬁ cations Level 6 (NVQ 
Level 6) oﬀ ered by the institutions 
approved by Sri Lanka Tertiary and 
V ocational Training Commission.
  (Table 03 shows the relevant subjects 
for the special cadre)
Note 02:   It is mandatory to study the subject applied 
for as the main subject of the degree, and 
the said subject should cover 1/3 of the 
total credits of the course. Moreover, a 
letter certifying the said subject covers 1/3 
of the total credits of the course, issued by 
the registrar of the university or / by the 
university in case of a foreign university 
should be forwarded at the time of the 
general interview.  
Note 03:  In case of the requested education 
qualiﬁ cations are fulﬁ  lled from the 
certiﬁ cates obtained from a foreign 
university, a letter certifying that the 
University Grants Commission recognizes 
the said university should be forwarded at 
the time of the general interview.  
5. Experience :
(a) General Cadre 
 To apply under the General Cadre the applicants,
 (i) With a degree qualiﬁ  cation, should possess 
at least ﬁ  ve (05) years active teaching 
experience after obtaining the said 
qualiﬁ cation,  
  O R
 (ii) With the National Diploma in Teaching 
or Trained Teachers’ Certiﬁ  cate, should 
possess at least seven (07) years active 
teaching experience after obtaining the 
said qualiﬁ cation, 
  O R
 (iii) With a degree and the National Diploma 
in Teaching / Trained Teachers’ certiﬁ cate, 
should have at least ﬁ ve (05) years active 
teaching experience after obtaining the 
said qualiﬁ cation, 
  O R
 (iv) As an oﬃ   cer belongs to Sri Lanka 
Principals’ Service / Sri Lanka In -Service 
Advisors’ Service / Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educators’ Service should have at least ﬁ ve 
(05) years active and satisfactory period of 
service in a said position.
Note 04: When an oﬃ  cer has less than 
05 years of service under No. 
(IV) above, the balance could be 
completed from (I), (II) or (III) 
above.      
            
(b)  Special Cadre
 To apply under the Special Cadre the applicant 
should possess,
 (i)  A degree for the relevant subject and 
at least ﬁ ve (05) years active teaching 
experience in the relevant subject after 
obtaining the degree, 
  O R
 (ii) The National Diploma in Teaching / 
Trained Teachers’ Certiﬁ  cate and the 
degree for the relevant subject and at 
least ﬁ ve (05) years active teaching 
experience in the relevant subject after 
obtaining the National Diploma in 
Teaching / Trained Teachers’ Certiﬁ cate,
  O R

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1248
 (iii) The National Diploma in Teaching / 
Trained Teachers’ certiﬁ  cate in the 
relevant subject and at least seven (07) 
years active teaching experience in the 
relevant subject after obtaining the said 
qualiﬁ cation,
  O R
 (iv) The Trained Teachers’ Certiﬁ  cate 
/ Diploma in Teaching in Special 
Education /Technology /Physical 
Education, with not less than seven (07) 
years of service, including ﬁ  ve (05) 
years continuous and active teaching 
experience in the relevant subject.
6.  Physical suitability.– All applicants must be physically 
and mentally sound enough to serve and perform the duties 
of the post in any part of the island.
7. Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 (i) No applicant is allowed to sit for the limited 
competitive examination more than (03) times 
and for both limited and open competitive 
examinations for more than ﬁ ve (05) times. 
 (ii) Each applicant must possess all prescribed 
qualiﬁ cations to the closing date of applications 
as given at this Gazette notiﬁ cation to be recruited 
to the Sri Lanka Education Administrative 
Service.
 (iii) Each applicant should possess an active and 
satisfactory period of service of not less than 
ﬁ ve (05) years.
 (iv) The applicant should have been made permanent 
in the service. (For an applicant who is in the 
probationary period before getting permanent 
in the service for the date of application, he/she 
must have been made permanent in the previous 
post).
 (v) Should not have been undergone any 
punishment as per circular 01/2020 of Public 
Service Commission. 
8. Age Limit.-  Not more than ﬁ  fty three years (53) of 
age on the closing date of applications. Accordingly, only 
applicants born after 30.07.1968 are eligible to apply. 
9. Method of Application :
 (i) The Grade III of the service consists of 
‘General’ and ‘ Special’ Cadres. In addition 
to the General Cadre, the candidates can also 
apply for only one (01) subject in the special 
cadre. If applying only under the Special Cadre, 
the applicant can apply for (02) two subjects.
 (ii) In the event of an applicant selected under the 
General Cadre and one subject of the special 
cadre as well as for two subjects in the Special 
Cadre, the Education Service Committee of 
Public Service Commission shall decide the 
subject for which his / her recruitment is made 
and the preferences given by the applicant in the 
application will be taken into consideration. 
 (iii) The subjects and the codes assigned to General 
and Special Cadres are given below. The 
subjects applied for and the codes assigned 
should be mentioned in the relevant cage in 
the application. Applicants are not allowed to 
change such preferences later under whatever 
circumstance.
Table 02. Subjects of Recruitment and relevant 
subject numbers
Subject Area Code 
Number
General Cadre 11
Special Cadre   
Sinhala 21
Tamil 22
English 23
Mathematics 24
Science 25
Commerce 26
Information Technology 27
Physical Education 28
Christianity/ Catholicism 30
Hinduism 31
Student Guidance and Counseling 33
Special Education 37
Planning 38
Primary Education 39
History 40
Aesthetics 41
Engineering Technology 43
Biosystems Technology 44

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1249
Table 03: Appendix “a” of the service minute relevant to the subjects for the Special Cadre
Subject Area Quali ﬁ cations for Recruitment
1. Sinhala
2. Tamil
3. English
4. Mathematics
5. Science
6. Commerce
7. Information Technology
8. Physical Education
9. Christianity / Catholicism 
10. Hinduism
11. Student Guidance and 
Counseling 
1. A degree for the relevant subject or having studied the rele vant subject as the 
main subject of the degree with 1/3 of the total number of course units. 
2. Having the teacher training certiﬁ  cate or National Diploma in Teaching for the 
relevant subject 
(should prove at the interview with certiﬁ cates)
12.  Aesthetics The subjects relevant to the degree would be Art s, Dancing, Eastern Music, Western 
Music, Drama & Theatrical Arts.  
13.  Technology
(i) Biosystems 
Technology
A degree in Agriculture, or National Diploma in Teaching / Teac her Training 
Certiﬁ cate in Home Science, Handy Crafts or Life Skills.
(ii) Engineering 
Technology
A technology degree from an accepted institution OR an engineering degree from 
a recognized university or an institution recognized by the Uni versity Grants 
Commission, in any ﬁ eld of Mechanical, Civil, Electrical or Electronic Engineering. 
The four year Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) oﬀ ered by the Sri 
Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education, OR The three year National 
Diploma in Technology (NDT) oﬀ ered by the University of Moratuwa, 
OR The four year National Diploma in Engineering Science (NDES) oﬀ ered by the 
Institute of Engineering Technology, Katunayake, OR The Diploma in Technology 
(DT) oﬀ ered by the Open University of Sri Lanka, 
OR The National V ocational Qualiﬁ cations Level 6 (NVQ Level 6) oﬀ ered by the 
institutions approved by the Sri Lanka Tertiary and V ocational Training Commission.
14. Special Education i. A Bachelor of Education degree or Maste r’s degree in Education or a Master’s 
degree in Special Education.
ii. Teacher Training Certiﬁ  cate from a government teacher training college for 
Special Education.
iii. National Diploma in Teaching for Special Education.
15. Planning Any degree from a recognized university with at lea st one of the following subjects 
as a main subject.
• Statistics
• Mathematics
• Management
• Education Science, Fundamentals and comparative education
• Social sciences
• Biological science
• Physics
• Economics

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1250
Subject Area Quali ﬁ cations for Recruitment
16. Primary Education I. A Bachelor of Education degree or Maste r’s degree in Education or a 
Master’s degree in Primary Education.
II. Teacher Training Certiﬁ  cate from a government teacher training College 
for Primary Education.
III. National Diploma in Teaching for Primary Education.
17. History IV . A degree with History as a subject.
Note 05: In case the degree qualiﬁ cation submitted for the subject area of planning comes under the subject 
areas given below, the following teaching experiences would be considered.
Subject Area Subject areas to be proved for the experience in teaching
Management Commerce / Business Studies
Economics
Business Studies & Accounting 
Accountancy / Accounting
Entrepreneurship Education
Information & Communication Technology
Business statistics
Educational Science Geography
Science
Mathematics
Information Communication Technology
Economics
Business & Accounting Studies
Entrepreneurship Education
Social Sciences Geography
Civic Education
 
Note 06.— In order to prove the experience in the subject Student Guidanc e and Counseling, details and annual 
action plans on career guidance and counseling implemented in the schools during the relevant number of 
years need to be forwarded.
10. Method of Recruitment  :
10.1  Written Examination
     This examination shall comprise of three (03) question papers as given in the table 04 below. 
 10.1.1 Syllabus:
Table 04. Subjects relevant to the written examination
Subjects Time Maximum 
Marks
Minimum pass 
mark
01. Comprehension 01 hour and 30 minutes 100 40
02. General Intelligence and Aptitude 01 hour 100 40
03. Education Administration and Management 01 hour 100 40

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1251
Table 05. Syllabus of the written examination
Name of the 
Question Paper
Syllabus
01. Comprehension Shall comprise of objective type questions to t est candidate’s skills in comprehension, 
communication, summarization, interpretation and creation.
02. General Intelligence 
and Aptitude 
This paper shall consist of 50 questions of multiple choice type and short answer type.
Intelligence test
 Shall comprise to test candidates skills  on reasoning, interpretation, substitution, ﬁ nding 
relationships, translation, problem solving, ﬁ nding cause & eﬀ ect relations, prediction, 
information organization, pattern identiﬁ cation and instruction execution. 
Aptitude test
Shall comprise to test candidate’s ability on identifying problems presented in a structured, 
numerical and graphical context causes for such questions, decision-making, concluding 
and communicating.   
03 Education 
Administration and 
Management
Shall comprise of objective type questions to test candidate’s knowledge on, education 
policy, school supervision, human and physical resource management, education 
modernization, identifying and resolving conﬂ icts, decision making.    
10.0.2. This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10.1. Viva V oce Test (25 marks)
 (i) A panel appointed by the Education Service Committee of th e Public Service Commission will 
conduct the viva voce test to assess the candidate’s knowledge regarding the teaching - learning 
process, ability of reasoning and problem solving, communicatio n skills and personality using the 
following criteria.
  Table 06.  Marking criteria for viva voce test.
Subject Area Maximum Marks
1. Knowledge regarding the teaching - learning process. 07
2. Reasoning & Problem solving 07
3. Communication skills 07
4. Personality 04
Total 25
 (ii) Before the viva voce test, a general interview shall be c onducted to ascertain whether the qualiﬁ cations 
necessary for recruitment have been fulﬁ lled and no marks shall be awarded there. 
 (iii) In case if the number of candidates qualiﬁ  ed from the written examination under each subject are less 
than the number of vacancies, only the number of qualiﬁ ed candidates will be called for the interview. 
 (iv) Names of the candidates who will be called for the interv iew shall be published on the website of the 
Ministry of Education.
 (v) If further vacancies exist, after the general interview an d the viva voce test have been conducted 
and the appointments have been given, the Education Service Com mittee of the Public Service 
Commission on the recommendation of the secretary to the Minist ry of Education shall decide 
whether such vacancies have to be ﬁ  lled or not ﬁ lled in a second round after conducting relevant 
interviews.     

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1252
10.3. Releasing Examination Results :
According to 01 (a) paragraph of this notiﬁ  cation 
the results of the selected candidates will be 
organized according to the order of merit based 
on the scores of both written examination and viva 
voce test will be handed over to the Secretary of 
the Education Service Committee of the Public 
Service Commission. Accordingly, after the 
appointment process is over, results will be either 
sent personally to the candidates or published on the 
oﬃ  cial website of the Department of Examinations 
(www.results.exams.gov.lk), as directed by the 
Education Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission.  
11. Examination  Conditions :
 I. The examination will be conducted in the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. A 
candidate can appear for the examination 
in only one language of her/his choice. 
All question papers have to be answered 
in the same medium. Candidates will not 
be permitted to change the medium of 
examination in her/his application later.
 II. The examination fee, which is Rs.1200/- 
could be paid at any post oﬃ  ce or divisional 
secretariat in the island to the credit of revenue 
head 20-03-02-13 of Commissioner General 
of Examinations. A margin of the original 
receipt obtained in the candidate’s own name 
should be ﬁ rmly pasted to the place speciﬁ ed 
in the application form. It would be advisable 
to retain a photocopy of this receipt. 
 III. The paid examination fee shall not be refunded 
for any reason or cannot be exchanged for any 
other examination.
 IV . This examination will be held in Colombo. 
The date of the examination will be notiﬁ  ed 
later.
 V . No applicant will be allowed to enter the 
examination hall without an admission 
card and it is mandatory to submit the duly 
completed and attested admission card to the 
supervisor of the examination hall on the ﬁ rst 
day of the examination. 
 VI. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
for the examination should not be taken as 
an acknowledgment that the candidate has 
satisﬁ ed the qualiﬁ cations required to sit the 
examination.   
 VII. The application should be prepared on the A4 
paper of 22x29 cm. Headings 01 to 05 should 
be entered on the ﬁ  rst page, 06 onwards on 
the second and third pages. The relevant 
particulars should be entered very clearly in 
candidate’s own handwriting. 
 VIII. It would be advisable to retain a copy of the 
application form with the applicant. Further, 
the candidate should satisfy herself / himself 
that the completed application conforms to the 
specimen application form before submitting.
 IX. All applications that do not conform to the 
format of the specimen application form 
provided at the end of this notiﬁ  cation shall 
be rejected without notice. 
 X. Department of Examinations shall publish 
a newspaper notiﬁ  cation as soon as the 
admission cards are issued. If admission 
card is not received by any of the applicant 
at least ﬁ  ve (05) days prior to the date of 
examination, an inquiry should be made 
from the Department of Examinations as 
stated in the newspaper notice. When making 
such an inquiry, it is advisable to attach 
a photocopy of the application, a copy of 
the postal registration receipt and for the 
applicants living outside Colombo, it is 
advisable to send a request including a fax 
number of   the applicant through fax to the 
fax number       011- 2784232 to obtain a copy 
of the admission card. 
 XI. With the approval of the Education Service 
Committee of the Public Service Commission, 
the Commissioner General of Examinations 
has the power to either postpone or cancel the 
examination.
XII. Candidates will have to abide by the rules and 
regulations, enacted by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations, regarding 
conducting the examination. If those rules and 
regulations are violated, the candidates are 
bound to undergo any punishment imposed by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Moreover, all candidates should adhere to the 
present quarantine regulations in the country.  

<!-- page 23 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1253
 XIII. All candidates should prove their identity 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall for each paper they sit. 
  Any of the following documents shall be 
accepted for this purpose. 
 (i) The National Identity Card, 
 (ii) A valid Passport,
 (iii) A valid Sri Lankan Driving License.
  Moreover, all candidates should enter the 
examination hall without covering their face 
and both ears, so that the examination staﬀ   
may easily verify their identity. Any candidate 
refusing to prove the identity is not allowed 
to enter the examination hall. Further, once 
entered the examination hall, all candidates 
should keep their face and both ears open 
until leaving the hall, so that the examination 
staﬀ  may verify their identity. 
 XIV . If it is revealed that a candidate does not 
possess any of the required qualiﬁ cations,  his 
/ her the candidature may be annulled at any 
stage before, during or after the examination. 
After selecting to the post, if it is revealed that 
any of the facts presented is incorrect or any 
signiﬁ cant fact has been willfully suppressed, 
action may be taken for the person in question 
to be discontinued from the service, returned 
to the previous post or dismissed from the 
service.
 XV . Applicants serving in public service / 
provincial public service / formally released 
as oﬃ  cers in the volunteer forces or volunteer 
subservice, should submit their applications 
through their institution / department heads. 
All candidates should have their signature 
attested by their head of the department prior 
to the examination. 
 XVI. The ﬁ nal decision on any matter that does not 
include in this notice rests with the Education 
Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission.
12. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases 
of this notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as 
the correct one.    
 Professor K.  Kൺඉංඅൺ C. K. Pൾඋൾඋൺ,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
28.05.2021
                                                                                                                            (For oﬃ  ce use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
                                      
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III fY%aKshg n`ojd .ekSfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2020$2021
Lංආංඍൾൽ Cඈආඉൾඍංඍංඏൾ Eඑൺආංඇൺඍංඈඇ ൿඈඋ Rൾർඋඎංඍආൾඇඍ ඍඈ Gඋൺൽൾ III ඈൿ ඍඁൾ Sඋං Lൺඇ඄ൺ Eൽඎർൺඍංඈඇ Aൽආංඇංඌඍඋൺඍංඏൾ 
Sൾඋඏංർൾ – 2020 / 2021
Medium of the Examination
 Sinhala - 2
 Tamil - 3                    (write relevant no. in the cage)
 English - 4
(The medium appearing for the examination shall be the medium of recruitment)
“Cadre” for which the candidate apply for the examination
 Only the general cadre  - 1 
 Only the special cadre  - 2     (write relevant No. in the cag e)
 For both general and special cadre  - 3

<!-- page 24 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1254
Indicate in the following table the subject and the subject code applied for as per the gazette notiﬁ cation.
Order of preference Name of the cadre Name of the subject ﬁ eld Serial No.
01
02
01.  1.1 Name in Full (In block letters): ..................... ............................................................................................................
    ........................................................... ........................................................................................................................
  1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of othe r names at the end    :
              (In block letters)  : ........................... ..........................................................................................................................
                        (Ex: Silva, G.A.)
  1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/Tamil)  :  ..................... .......................................................................................................
    ........................................................... ........................................................................................................................
2.0  2.1 Permanent Address (in English block letters) : ....... ................................................................................................... 
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.2 Permanent Address in (Sinhala / Tamil)   : .............. ..................................................................................................
    ........................................................... ........................................................................................................................
  2.3 Oﬃ   cial Address (In English block letters) : ..............................................................................................................
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.4 Oﬃ   cial Address (In Sinhala / Tamil) : ....................................................................................................................... 
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.5 Address to which admissions should be posted (In block le tters) : ...........................................................................
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
3.0  3.1  Personal Contact No. & Fax numbers (If any)    
   Telephone
   Fax
  3.2 Oﬃ   cial Telephone / Fax :
   Telephone
   Fax
  3.3  Email Address: ......................................... ..................................................................................................................
4.0  Gender : Male  – 0    
    Female  – 1                   (Indicate in the relevant cag e)  
5.0  National Identity Card No.:     
6.0  6.1 Civil Status:        Unmarried  – 01
                        Married  – 02               (write rele vant No. in the cage)
  6.2  Date of birth :       
Year  Month    Date  
  6.3  Age as at 30.07.2021 :
Years :  Months:    Days :
7.0   Relevant educational / other qualiﬁ cations to apply for this post. 
  7.1 Degree / other qualiﬁ  cation : .....................................................................................................................................
  7.2 University / Institution : .............................. ...............................................................................................................

<!-- page 25 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1255
  7.3 Student register No. of the University / Institution : .. ...............................................................................................
  7.4 Medium of the degree / Qualiﬁ  cation : ......................................................................................................................
  7.5 Subjects related to the Degree / Qualiﬁ  cation : .........................................................................................................
  7.6 Valid date or date of completion of the degree / qualiﬁ  cation : .................................................................................
  7.7 Class of the degree (If any) : .......................... ............................................................................................................
8.0  8.1  Date of ﬁ rst appointment to the government service related to education : ............................................................. .                      
  8.2  Present service: ....................................... ...................................................................................................................
  8.3 Present place of service : .............................. .............................................................................................................
  8.4  Period of service up to the closing date of applications  :- 
             Years.:..........       Months :...........   Days  :..............
9.0  9.1 Year obtained teacher training: ...................... ............................................................................................................
  9.2  Name of the NCOE / Teachers’ College:-.................. .............................
  9.3  Valid date of the teacher training certiﬁ  cate:-........................................
  9.4  Subject area of teacher training:-...................... ..................................
  9.5  Date of appointment for teaching the subject relevant to  the training:- …………………                  
       9.6   ...................Period of service from the date  of appointment as per 9.5 above to the closing date of  applications:- 
   Years ......... Months :.................   Days :.......... .......
10. Have you been conﬁ rmed and made permanent in the present post? : ...............................................................................
11.  Number of instances and years sat for limited and open competitive examinations. 
Examination Years No. of occasions
Limited
Open
12.0  Examination Fee :
Paste the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1200 as here (Keep a photocopy of the  receipt)
13.0 I do hereby state that the information furnished by me her ewith are true and correct to my knowledge and belief, and 
have aﬃ  xed the receipt No. ……………. of …………. paying the examination fee. In addition, I would herewith agree 
to act according to the examination regulations and adhere to the laws and regulations enforced by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and if revealed disqualiﬁ ed according to the conditions of this examination, I agree with any 
decision taken to cancel my candidature before or at the time of the examination or any other. Furthermore, I do know 
that I will be dismissed from service even if I was revealed to have been disqualiﬁ ed after selected for this post.  
  ................................................ ............ .......................................
  Date Signature of the Applicant.
14. Zonal Director of Education, 
 This is to certify Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………………………… submit ting this application is 
…………………………. serving in my school.
    ......................................... ……………………………..
  Date Principal.
               (Signature and Stamp)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1256
15. Commissioner General of Examinations,
 This is to certify Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………………………………………….. sub mitting this application is 
serving as ………………………….., in the …………………………… Vidyalaya in this zone. He / she has an active 
and satisfactory service period of (05) ﬁ ve years and has not being subjected to punishments as per the  provisions in 
the circular No. 01/2020 of the Public Service Commission. The details furnished by him/her in the paragraphs from 
No. 1 to No.11 are accurate as per his/her personal ﬁ  le in this oﬃ  ce, and he has pasted the receipt after paying due 
examination fee.
  ................................................... ......... ...............................
  Date Provincial Education Secretary / Provincial Director of  
  Education/ Zonal Director of Education
                                                                        (Signature and stamp)
06– 193/1
–––––––––––––––––––––
THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE SRI 
LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE 
SERVICE  ON THE BASIS OF SERVICE 
EXPERIENCE AND MERIT  (2020 /2021)
By Order of the Education Service Committee of 
The Public Service Commission 
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the Education 
Service Committee of the Public Service Commission, from 
oﬃ  cers who have fulﬁ lled the following qualiﬁ cations to ﬁ ll 
67 existing vacancies in the general cadre of Grade III of the 
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service based on the 
service experience and merit. Applicants should possess all 
required qualiﬁ cations mentioned in this notice by the closing 
date of applications. Applications prepared according to the 
specimen application form given at the end of this notice 
should be forwarded on or before the date given below to 
the Commissioner General of Examinations, Institutional 
Examinations Organization Branch, Department of 
Examinations, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo under registered 
cover. The top left hand corner of the envelope should bear 
“Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Grade 
III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on 
the basis of Service Experience and Merit – 2020/2021”. 
Further, the name of the examination in applications of 
Sinhala medium should also  be written in English, while in 
applications of Tamil medium, the name of the examination 
should also be written in English.
The closing date of applications : 30.07.2021.
No complaints shall be considered to the eﬀ  ect that an 
application or related documents connected therewith were 
lost or delayed in the post. Any loss that may cause due to 
the delay in submitting the application until the closing date 
will have to be borne by the applicants, themselves.
1. Method of Recruitment :
(a) From those applicants, who have passed both papers 
at the written examination, a number of applicants 
equal to the number of vacancies available shall 
be called for an interview based on the total marks 
scored for both written examination and service 
experience according to merit and having examined 
the qualiﬁ cations, selections for the appointments 
will be made. Education Service Committee of 
the Public Service Commission shall decide the 
date of commencement of the appointment and the 
number of appointments that will be made. The 
Education Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission has the right to ﬁ  ll all or a certain 
number of vacancies. 
 
(b) If any candidate who has been called for the 
interview to examine the qualiﬁ  cations has not 
fulﬁ lled the required qualiﬁ cations, the next eligible 
candidate in the list of merit shall be called for the 
interview.  
2. Conditions of employment in the service :
 (i) Subject to the conditions set out in the 
service minute of the Sri Lanka Education 
Administrative Service published in the Gazette 
Extra-ordinary of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No 1928/28 dated 
21.08.2015 and the amendments made thereafter 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1257
to the said service minute, and subject to the general conditio ns governing appointments to the public service, 
the selected candidates shall be appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service. The 
medium in which the candidates take the recruitment examination shall be the medium of recruitment.
 (ii) This post is permanent and selected applicants should con tribute to the Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ 
Pension Scheme (W&OP). However, oﬃ  cers recruited to this post are subject to the policy decisions on pension 
schemes that will be made by the government.
 (iii) Oﬃ  cers appointed to this post are subject to a probationary period of one (01) year.
 (iv)  Language Proﬁ  ciency
Language Expected Pro ﬁ ciency level
National Language Oﬃ  cers who joined the service in a language other than an oﬃ   cial language should 
obtain proﬁ ciency in one oﬃ  cial language prior to be made permanent in the post.
Other National 
Language
In accordance with the provisions of Public Administrative Circ ulars 18 /2020 and 
circulars thereof, the level of proﬁ  ciency in respect of the other language should be 
obtained.
Link Language Within three (03) years of the date of recruitment  the proﬁ ciency in the link language 
(English Language) should be obtained. Annexure No. 7 of the se rvice minute of Sri 
Lanka Education Administration Service, describes the relevant examination on link 
language.
 (v) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, Cir culars issued from time to time governing the 
Public Service and the conditions of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, 
amendments made to the said service minute thereafter, and amen dments that will be made from time to time 
are applicable to this post.
 (vi) The oﬃ  cers appointed to the posts of Grade III in the Sri Lanka Edu cation Administrative Service shall be 
placed as per existing service requirements to the posts of general cadre in the central government or provincial 
public service.   
3.  Salary Scale.- This post is entitled to the salary scale as per (SL-01-2016) R s. 47,615 – 10 x 1335 - 8 x 1630 - 17 x 
2170 -110,895/- (monthly) in terms of the Public Administrative Circular No 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016.
4. Eligibility .- An oﬃ  cer belonging to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service  who at present has fulﬁ  lled the 
following qualiﬁ cations shall be eligible to sit the examination, to be appoin ted on the basis of the service experience and 
merit.  
 I. Having completed a minimum period of 03 years of service in  Grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service 
to the closing date of applications.
 II. In case of an oﬃ   cer absorbed into the Grade 1 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Se rvice as per the section (b) 
in the para 17.4.3 of the service minute of the Sri Lanka Princ ipals’ Service, all relevant qualiﬁ cations be 
completed as per the said service minute.
 III. Be conﬁ  rmed in the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service.
 IV . Passed or released from eﬃ   ciency bar examinations relevant to the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service.
 V . Not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment as per th e provisions in circular No. 01/2020 of the Public 
Service Commission.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1258
5. Physical Suitability .– Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound enough to serve in any part of the 
island and perform duties of the post.
6. Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 I. No candidate is allowed to sit the competitive examination for recruitment on the basis of Service Experience 
and Merit for more than three (03) sittings and for both Limited Competitive Examination and the Competitive 
Examination for recruitment on the basis of Service Experience and Merits for more than ﬁ  ve (05) sittings 
altogether.
 II. Should have fulﬁ  lled all the necessary qualiﬁ cations required to sit the examination for recruitment to the  Sri 
Lanka Education Administrative service on the basis of service experience and merit in addition to the eligibility 
to face the interview as at the closing date of applications.
7. Age Limit.– Not more than ﬁ fty-eight years (58) of age on the closing date of application s. Accordingly, those who 
were born on or after 30.07.1963 can apply for this examination.  
8. Method of Recruitment .– Recruitments will be made based on the results of the written e xamination and service 
experience.
8.1. Written Examination
 This examination consists of two (02) papers as given in the t able no 01. 
 8.1.1. Syllabus
 Table 01 : Subjects related to the written examination
Subjects Time Maximum Marks Minimum
Mark required to pass
01. Comparative Education 1 hour 100 40
02. Education Administration and 
Case Studies 1 hour 100 40
 Table 02.  Syllabus 
Subject Syllabus
01 Comparative Education It is expected from this question paper to assess the 
candidate’s comparative evaluations on the education 
policies, rules and laws, functions of the educational 
institutes and current programs in the development of 
education in Sri Lanka and educational trends.
02 Case study on Education 
Management
Questions are presented with the objective of bringing 
out the candidate’s responsiveness to few likely 
cases that might crop up in the ﬁ eld of Education 
Administration / Management and his / her knowledge 
on problem solving in such cases. 
 8.1.2. The Commissioner General of Examinations will conduct t his examination.  

<!-- page 29 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1259
8.2. Method of awarding marks for service 
experience :
 (i) After deducting the prescribed 
three year period of service given 
as basic qualiﬁ  cations necessary for 
the recruitment, in addition to said 
compulsory period of service, for all 
active and satisfactory period of service 
in the Grade I of Sri Lanka Principals’ 
Service, 03 marks per each year will be 
awarded subject to a maximum of 60 
marks for service experience. 
 (ii)  In case the oﬃ   cers absorbed into the 
Grade 1 as per the section (b) in the 
para 17.4.3 of the service minute of 
the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service, the 
period of service taken to complete 
relevant qualiﬁ cations as per the said 
service minute, and supernumerary 
service period of the oﬃ  cers obtained 
appointments based on supernumerary 
period, shall not be considered as active 
and satisfactory period of service.  
 (iii) Marks will be awarded only for one 
complete year of active and satisfactory 
period of service.
8.3. General Interview :
8.3.1. No marks will be awarded for the 
general interview.
8.3.2. This interview intends to examine if 
the applicant has fulﬁ lled qualiﬁ cations 
required for recruitment and necessary 
qualiﬁ cations required for recruitment 
as per this notiﬁ cation of recruitment.
 (i) Only a number of candidates 
equal to the number of vacancies 
available shall be called for 
the interview, to ascertain 
qualiﬁ cations according to the 
order of merit obtained as per 
the total marks obtained for 
service experience and written 
examination.
 (ii) If any vacancy occurs / vacancies 
occur due to, an applicant / a 
number of applicants called 
for the interview has /have not 
fulﬁ lled required qualiﬁ  cations, 
the said number of vacancies 
shall be ﬁ  lled from the next 
candidates in the merit list as per 
order of merit. 
 (iii) If there is more than one candidate 
with equal marks at cut oﬀ  points, 
the Public Service Commission 
shall take a decision with regard 
to such situations.
 (iv) Eligibility of candidates shall be 
examined by a board of interview 
appointed by the Education 
Service Committee of the Public 
Service Commission.
 
8.4. Releasing Examination Results :
 According to 1.a and 1.b of this notice, the 
list of selected applicants prepared according 
to the merit as per the total marks obtained 
for both written examination and service 
experience shall be sent to the Secretary of the 
Education Service Committee of the Public 
Service Commission. Having completed 
the appointment process as directed by the 
Education Service Committee of the Public 
Service Commission, the results would 
either be sent personally to the candidates or 
published on the website of the  Department of 
Examinations, wwww.results.exams.gov.lk .  
9.   Examination Conditions :
 I. The examination will be conducted in the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. A 
candidate can appear for the examination 
in only one language of her/his choice. 
All question papers have to be answered 
in the same medium. Candidates will not 
be permitted to change the medium of 
examination in her/his application later.
 II. The examination fee, which is Rs.1200/- 
could be paid at any post oﬃ   ce or 
divisional secretariat in the island to the 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1260
credit of revenue head 20-03-02-13 of 
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
A margin of the original receipt obtained 
in the candidate’s own name should be 
ﬁ rmly pasted to the place speciﬁ  ed in the 
application form. It would be advisable to 
retain a photocopy of this receipt. 
 III. The paid examination fee shall not be 
refunded for any reason or cannot be 
exchanged for any other examination.
 IV . This examination will be held in Colombo. 
The date of the examination will be notiﬁ ed 
later.
 V . No applicant will be allowed to enter the 
examination hall without an admission 
card and it is mandatory to submit the duly 
completed and attested admission card to 
the supervisor of the examination hall on 
the ﬁ rst day of the examination. 
 VI. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
for the examination should not be taken as 
an acknowledgement that the candidate has 
satisﬁ ed the qualiﬁ  cations required to sit 
the examination.   
 
 VII. The application should be prepared on the 
A4 paper of 22x29 cm. Headings 01 to 05 
should appear on the ﬁ  rst page. From 06 
onwards should be on the second and third 
pages. The relevant particulars should be 
entered very clearly in candidate’s own 
handwriting. 
 VIII. It would be advisable to retain a copy of 
the application form with the applicant. 
Further, the applicant should satisfy herself 
/ himself that the perfected application 
conforms to the specimen application form 
before submitting.
 IX. All applications that do not conform to the 
format of the specimen application form 
provided at the end of this notiﬁ cation shall 
be rejected without notice. 
 X. Department of Examinations shall publish 
a newspaper notiﬁ  cation as soon as the 
admission cards are issued. If the admission 
card is not received by any of the applicants 
at least ﬁ ve (05) days prior to the date of 
examination, an inquiry should be made 
from the Department of Examinations 
as stated in the newspaper notice. When 
making such an inquiry, it is advisable to 
attach a photocopy of the application, a 
copy of the postal registration receipt and 
for the applicants living outside Colombo, 
it is advisable to send a request including a 
fax number of the applicant through fax to 
the fax number 011-2784232. 
 XI. With the approval of the Education 
Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission, the Commissioner General 
of Examinations has the power to either 
postpone or cancel the examination.
 XII. Candidates will have to abide by the 
rules and regulations enacted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
regarding conducting the examination. If 
those rules and regulations are violated, 
the candidates are bound to undergo any 
punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. Moreover, all 
candidates should adhere to the present 
quarantine regulations in the country.  
 XIII. All candidates should prove their identity 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall for each paper they sit. 
          
   Any of the following documents shall be 
accepted for this purpose. 
 (i) The National Identity Card 
 (ii) A valid Passport
 (iii) A valid Sri Lankan Driving License
  Moreover, all candidates should enter the 
examination hall without covering their 
face and both ears, so that the examination 
staﬀ  may easily verify their identity. Any 
candidate refusing to prove the identity is 
not allowed to enter the examination hall. 
Further, once entered the examination hall, 
all candidates should keep their face and 
both ears open until leaving the hall, so 
that the examination staﬀ  may verify their 
identity. 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1261
 XIV . If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess any of the required qualiﬁ cations, his / her the candidature 
may be annulled at any stage before, during or after the examin ation. After selecting to the post, if it is 
revealed that any of the facts presented is incorrect or any si gniﬁ cant fact has been willfully suppressed, 
action may be taken for the person in question to be discontinued from the service/ returned to the previous 
post / dismissed from service.
 XV . Applicants serving in public service / provincial public service / formally released as oﬃ  cers in the volunteer 
forces or volunteer subservice, should submit their applications through their institution / department heads. 
All candidates should have their signature attested by their head of the department prior to the examination. 
 XVI. The ﬁ  nal decision on any matter that does not include in this notic e rests with the Education Service 
Committee of the Public Service Commission.
10. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this  notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.    
 Professor K. Kൺඉංඅൺ C. K. Pൾඋൾඋൺ,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
28.05.2021
(For oﬃ  ce use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
                                      
fiajd m<mqreoao yd l=i,;d moku u; Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III fY%aKshg n`ojd .ekSfï 
;r. úNd.h - 2020$2021
Cඈආඉൾඍංඍංඏൾ Eඑൺආංඇൺඍංඈඇ ൿඈඋ Rൾർඋඎංඍආൾඇඍ ඍඈ Gඋൺൽൾ 111 ඈൿ ඍඁൾ Sඋං Lൺඇ඄ൺ Eൽඎർൺඍංඈඇ Aൽආංඇංඌඍඋൺඍංඏൾ Sൾඋඏංർൾ ඈඇ 
ඍඁൾ Bൺඌංඌ ඈൿ Sൾඋඏංർൾ Eඑඉൾඋංൾඇർൾ ൺඇൽ Mൾඋංඍ - 2020 / 2021
Medium of the Examination
 Sinhala - 2
 Tamil - 3                    (write relevant No. in the cage)
 English - 4
(The medium appearing for the examination shall be the medium of recruitment)
01.  1.1 Name in Full (In block letters): ..................... ............................................................................................................
    ........................................................... ........................................................................................................................
  1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of othe r names at the end    :
              (In block letters)  : ........................... ..........................................................................................................................
                        (ex: Silva, G.A.)
  1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/Tamil)  :  ..................... .......................................................................................................
    ........................................................... ........................................................................................................................
2.0  2.1 Permanent Address (in English block letters) : ....... ................................................................................................... 
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.2 Permanent Address in (Sinhala / Tamil   : ............... ..................................................................................................
    ........................................................... ........................................................................................................................

<!-- page 32 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1262
  2.3 Oﬃ   cial Address (In English block letters) : ..............................................................................................................
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.4 Oﬃ   cial Address (In Sinhala / Tamil) : ....................................................................................................................... 
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2.5 Address to which admissions should be posted (In block le tters) : ...........................................................................
 ...................................................................................................................................................................................
3.0  3.1  Personal Contact No. & Fax numbers (If any)    
   Telephone No.
   Fax No.
  3.2 Oﬃ   cial Telephone / Fax :
   Telephone No.
   Fax No.
  3.3 Email Address: .......................................... ....................................................................................................................
4.0  Gender : Male  0    
    Female  1             (write the relevant No. in the cage)  
5.0  National Identity Card No.:     
6.0  6.1 Civil Status:        Unmarried  – 01
                        Married  – 02       (write the relevant  No. in the cage)
  6.2  Date of birth       
Year  Month    Date  
  6.3  Age as at 30.07.2021 :
Years :  Months :    Days :
7.0 Number of previous sittings to the competitive examination on the basis of  Limited and Service Experience and Merit. 
Examination Years Number of times
Limited
Service Experience and Merit
8.0    Service details (Complete the following table) :
Serial 
No. Appointment / Post Date of Appointment / 
Promotion / Absorption
Date and the number of  
the Letter of Appointment / 
Promotion / Absorption
I First appointment to the Principals’ 
Service
II Date of absorption to the Principals’ 
Service (only if relevant)
III Absorption to the new service minute

<!-- page 33 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1263
Serial 
No. Appointment / Post Date of Appointment / 
Promotion / Absorption
Date and the number of  
the Letter of Appointment / 
Promotion / Absorption
IV Promotion to the Grade I of the Principals’ 
Service
V
If the appointment is on supernumerary 
basis, absorption to the Grade 1 of the 
Principals’ Service
 Complete following table (Complete the following table) :
VI
Present post 
and the date of 
appointment to 
the post
Details of present place of work
Name of the 
place of work Address
Zone for which 
the place of work 
belongs to
Province for 
which the place 
of work belongs 
to
9.0 Details of training programs followed :
      (Complete following table)
Serial No. Name of the training 
program /course
Institution Year of completion
i
ii
 
10.0 Eﬃ  ciency Bar examinations :
Eﬃ  ciency bar examination Date  completed / passed
First
Second
11.0 Details of disciplinary punishments subjected as per the circular No. 01/2020 of Public Service Commission.
       (Complete the following table)
Year Nature of Punishments
12.0 If there are any ongoing disciplinary action cases against the applicant, its present status.
       (Compete following table)
Year Present state of the disciplinary procedure / investigation  / audit procedure
 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1264
13.0 Particulars of salary increments after being promoted to t he Grade I of the Principals’ Service. (Complete following 
table) :
Year Whether the salary increment was earned or not. If not reasons
14.0 Details of no pay / half pay leave obtained after promotin g to the Grade I of the Principals’  service. (Complete 
following table) :
Year No Pay Leave Half Pay leave
From ………       to………….. From ………       to…………..
From ………       to………….. From ………       to…………..
From ………       to………….. From ………       to…………..
I, do hereby state that I am qualiﬁ ed and suitable to be appointed into Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service 
on service experience and merit based recruitment. I hereby cer tify that the information furnished by me herewith are true 
and accurate to my knowledge and belief. In addition, I herewith agree to act according to the examination regulations and 
adhere to the laws and regulations enforced by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 ................................................ ............. ................................. 
 Date Signature of the Applicant.  
 
15.   Commissioner General of Examinations,
The details furnished by him/her in the paragraphs from No. 1 to No. 14 are accurate as per his/her personal ﬁ le in 
this oﬃ  ce, and he has pasted the receipt after paying due examination fee of Rs. 1,200/-.
 ................................................... …......... ...........................................................
 Date Provincial Education Secretary / Provincial Director of 
  Education/ Zonal Director of Education
                                                                                                          (Signature & Stamp)
Paste the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,200/= as here (Keep a photocopy of the  receipt)
06–193/2

<!-- page 35 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1265
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk o f the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The oﬃ   ce hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be ac companied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Oﬃ  ce - Borella will be the paying oﬃ  ce for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and  Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Cou rts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  
... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to a lteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the ﬁ rst week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST  2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...   4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ...  860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ...  260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ...  5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ...  15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ...  ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'06'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2021
1266
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date speciﬁ ed for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest  time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times speciﬁ  ed below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sen der by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that suﬃ  cient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
Tඁൾ Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2021
 JUNE  04.06.2021 Firday — 21.05.2021 Friday 12 noon
  11.06.2021 Firday –– 28.05.2021 Friday 12 noon
  18.06.2021 Friday –– 04.06.2021 Friday 12 noon
  25.06.2021 Friday –– 11.06.2021 Firday 12 noon
 JULY  02.07.2021 Firday — 18.06.2021 Friday 12 noon
  09.07.2021 Firday –– 25.06.2021 Friday 12 noon
  16.07.2021 Friday –– 02.07.2021 Friday 12 noon
  22.07.2021 Thursday –– 09.07.2021 Firday 12 noon
  30.07.2021 Friday –– 16.07.2021 Firday 12 noon
 AUGUST  06.08.2021 Firday — 22.07.2021 Thursday 12 noon
  13.08.2021 Firday –– 30.07.2021 Firday 12 noon
  20.08.2021 Friday –– 06.08.2021 Friday 12 noon
  27.08.2021 Friday –– 13.08.2021 Firday 12 noon
 Gൺඇ඀ൺඇං  Lංඒൺඇൺ඀ൾ,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2021.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  L ANKA.