

<!-- page 1 -->

17Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL  AND  AGRARIAN  INSURANCE
ACT, N O . 20  OF 1999
[Certified on 16th  July, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 16, 1999.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED A T THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price: Rs. 11.50                  Postage: Rs.5.25
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
[Certified on 16th July, 1999]
L.D.-O. 24/98.
A N  A CT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  AN
A GRICULTURAL  AND  A GRARIAN  INSURANCE  BOARD  TO
PROVIDE  INSURANCE  OF  AGRICULTURAL  AND  HORTICULTURAL
CROPS  AND  MEDICINAL  PLANTS , LIVESTOCK , FISHERIES  AND
FORESTRY , AGRICULTURAL  EQUIPMENT  AND  IMPLEMENTS  AND
THE  STORAGE  AND  PRESERV ATION  OF  AGRICULTURAL  AND
HORTICULTURAL  PRODUCE  AND  THE  PRODUCTS  OF  MEDICINAL
PLANTS , FISHERIES  AND  FOREST  PRODUCE ; TO  PROVIDE
MEDICAL  BENEFITS   AND  SOCIAL  SECURITY  SCHEMES  FOR
AGRICULTURISTS ; TO  REPEAL  THE  AGRICULTURAL  INSURANCE
LAW , NO .27 OF  1973 ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  M ATTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Agricultural and
Agrarian Insurance Act, No.20 of 1999 and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as  “the
appointed date”)
PART I
T
HE  AGRICULTURAL  AND  AGRARIAN  INSURANCE  BOARD
2. (1) There shall be established a Board which shall be
called the Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance Board
 (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”)
(2) The Board shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. The Board shall consist of the following members -
(a) the Chairman appointed by the Minister;
Short Title and
date of operation.
Establishment of
the Agricultural
and Agrarian
Insurance Board.
Constitution
of the Board.
H - 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance, or an  officer of
the Ministry of Finance nominated by such
Minister;
(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Agriculture or his
nominee;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Fisheries or his nominee;
(e) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Livestock or his nominee;
(f)the Chief Executive of a licensed Commercial Bank
within the meaning of the Banking Act, No.30 of
1988 nominated by the Minister, or his nominee;
(g) the nominee of a National Farmers Association
recognized by the Government.
4. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall, subject to the
 provisions of subsections (4) and (5) hold office for a period
of three years from the date of his appointment,and shall be
eligible for re-appointment.
(2) If the Chairman of the Board is for any reason
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the
Minister may appoint a fit and proper person to act in his place.
(3) The Chairman of the Board shall be remunerated in
such manner and at such rates as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of
 the subject of Finance.
(4) The Chairman of the Board may resign from the
office of Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister.
(5) The Minister may at any time remove the Chairman
of the Board from the office of Chairman, without assigning
any reason therefor.
Chairman
of the Board.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
5. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be
three and, subject as aforesaid, the Board may regulate the
procedure in regard to its meetings and the transaction of
business at such meetings.
(2) The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy
among its members.
6. (1) The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of the
Board.
(2) The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the Presence of two
 members of the Board both of whom shall sign the instrument
in token of their presence.
(3) The seal of the Board may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Board.
7. The functions of the Board shall be-
(a) to establish and operate a comprehensive
insurance scheme for the benefit of
agriculturists, in respect of corps,
including plantation crops, medicinal plants,
fisheries, forestry and livestock, which will
indemnify them against losses, and with a view
to providing stability to agriculturists and to
promoting agricultural production;
(b) to establish and operate and insurance scheme
for the benefit of agriculturalists in respect of
agricultural equipment and implements and other
movable and immovable property of
agriculturists;
(c) to establish and operate an insurance scheme
for the benefit of agriculturists in respect of the
storage and preservation of agricultural and
horticultural produce and the products of
medicinal plants and fisheries and forest
produce;
(d) to establish and operate medical benefits and
social security schemes for the benefit of
agriculturists.
Quorum and
procedure at
Meetings.
Seal of the Board.
Functions of the
Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
8. (1) The Board may exercise all or any of the following
powers:-
(a) acquire, hold, take on lease or hire, mortgage, sell
or otherwise dispose of, any movable or
immovable property ;
(b) borrow money for the purposes of  the Board insuch
manner and upon such security as the Board may,
with the approval of the Minister given with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance, determine;
(c) conduct, assist and encourage research into all
aspects of the insurance activities of the Board;
(d) enter into and perform,either directly or throughany
officer or agent authorized in that behalf, all such
contracts as may be necessary for the discharge
of its functions ;
(e) do anything, for the purpose of advancing the skills
of officers and servants of the Board, and to
provide facilities for training persons required for
discharging the functions of the Board ;
(f)authorize any member or officer of the Board to
discharge such functions as the Board may
consider necessary for the efficient transaction of
its business ;
(g) make rules in relation to its officers and servants
including their appointment, promotion,
remuneration, disciplinary control, conduct and
grant of leave to them ;
(h) enter into joint schemes with any Public
Corporation, Company registered under the Com-
panies Act, No.17 of 1982, co-operative society
or any Agrarian Institution, for
discharging its functions under this Act ;
(i) to make rules in respect of the administration of
the Board ;
Powers of the
Board.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
(j)to delegate, subject to the general or special
direction of the Board, to the Chairman of the
Board and through him to any member or officer
of the Board, any such function of the Board as
the Board may consider necessary so to
delegate for the efficient discharge of
such functions;
(k) to do all other things which in the opinion of the
Board are necessary or incidental to the discharge
of its functions.
9. (1) The Board may appoint to the staff of the Board
such officers and servants as may be necessary for the
efficient discharge of its functions, on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the Board from time to
time.
(2) At the request of the Board, any public officer may
with the consent of that officer and the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Board for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent or be permanently appointed to such staff.
(3) Where any public officer is temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Board the provisions of subsection (2) of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.37
of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation, to
him.
(4) Where any public officer is permanently appointed
to the staff of the Board the provisions of subsection (3) of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37
of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation, to
him.
(5) Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Board by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.
Staff of the
Board.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
10. All officers and servants of the Board shall be deemed
to be public officers within the meaning of and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.
11. The Board shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
12. The Minister may give the Board such general or
special directions in writing as to the discharge of the
functions and the exercise of the powers of the Board and the
Board shall give effect to such directions.
PART II
I
NSURANCE
13. (1) The Board may from time to time , determine, the
rates of premium  payable on Insurance Policies issued under
Schemes established and operated by the Board, having
regard to the subject matter of the Insurance and the risks
insured against.
(2) The Board shall consider every application made to
it, for an insurance policy under any scheme established and
operated by it, and if satisfied in regard to the genuineness of
the application, issue a policy to the applicant which shall
indicate inter alia -
(a) the identity of the proposers;
(b) the subject matter of insurance;
(c)the Insured’s Name;
(d) the term of Cover;
(e)the sum insured;
Officers and
servants of the
Board deemed to
be public servants.
The  Board
deemed to be a
Scheduled
Institution under
the Bribery Act.
Powers of the
Minister in
relation to the
Board.
Determination
and payment
of premium.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
(f)the amount of premium;
(g) the perils and losses insured against;
(h) the terms, conditions and exceptions applicable
to the risk undertaken;
(i)other prescribed particulars.
14. Where, due to any specified cause, there is loss
whether total or partial of the subject matter insured by an
insurance policy issued by the Board the insured persons
shall, within  fourteen days of the occurrence of such loss,
prefer a written claim to the sum insured under such policy to
the agent appointed by the Board within whose area of
jurisdiction , the subject matter lies.
15. A contract of insurance by the Board may be
declared void, by Court and the premia paid in respect of such
contract may be forfeited to the Board if the insured
person -
(a) has concealed or misrepresented any material
fact or committed any fraud relating to the
insurance; or
(b) fails to comply with any term or condition of
such contract.
16. The holder or holders of an insurance policy issued
by the Board may assign such policy to an approved credit
agency as security for a loan given by such agency to such
holder or holders.
17. Where any person is entitled to any sum of money
payable under an insurance policy issued by the Board and
the Board is satisfied that any sum is due from that person to
an approved credit agency in repayment of the whole or any
part of a loan granted by such agency to that person or in
payment  of any interest on that loan, the Board may cause
the sum due to such approved credit agency to be deducted
from the amount payable under such insurance policy and to
be remitted to such agency.
Loss Claim.
V oidance of
Insurance.
Assignment of
insurance policy
by way of
security for loan.
Deductions from
money payable
under insurance
policy.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
18. The computation of the amount payable in respect
of the loss of the subject matter of insurance shall be made
according to such terms and conditions as are specified in the
contract of insurance entered into between the Board and the
insured person.
19. (1)  Where an officer authorized in that behalf by the
Board rejects a claim made by an insured person under a policy
issued by the Board or where an insured person is
dissatisfied  with the amount awarded to him by any such
officer, such insured person may, within thirty days of the
notification to him of the rejection of the claim or of the award,
as the case may be, make a written appeal to the Board,
stating the grounds of appeal.
(2) An appeal by an insured person under subsection
(1) shall not prejudice his right to institute action in court in
respect of the insurance policy to which the appeal relates,
and in computing the period of prescription for any such
action, the period commencing on the date of the making of
such appeal and ending on the date of determination of such
appeal shall be disregarded.
20. The Board may enter into reinsurance contracts with
the Government or any local or foreign institution
undertaking the business of reinsurance.
21. (1)  The Board or any officer authorized in that behalf
by the Board may enter and inspect any land on which there is
any specified crop or any insured livestock and any
documents relating thereto and it shall be the duty of every
person who is in occupation of such land to permit and assist
such inspection.
(2) Every person who fails to comply with the
provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred rupees.
Award.
Reinsurance.
Appeals against
rejection of
claims &c.
Power of
inspection of
Iands in which
specified crops
are raised.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
Power to direct
an insured person
to take measures
to prevent damage
to insured land.
22.The Board or any officer authorized in that behalf
by the Board may direct an insured person or the holder of an
insurance policy under this Law to take such measures in
respect of the crop or livestock as may be necessary to
 prevent or minimize damage to such crop or livestock.
PART III
F
INANCE
23. (1)  The initial capital of the Board shall be twenty
million  Rupees.
(2) The amount of the initial capital of the Board shall
be paid to the Board out of the Consolidated Fund of Sri
Lanka.
(3) The Capital of the Board may be increased from
time to time by such amount as may be determined by the
Board in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Agriculture.
24. (1) The Board shall have its own Fund to be called the
Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance Fund (hereinafter referred
to as “ the Fund”)
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund -
(a) all such sums of money as are paid to the Board
under section 23.
(b) all such sums of money as were lying to the
credit of the Agricultural Insurance Fund
established by the Agricultural Insurance Law,
No.27 of 1973 on the day preceding the
appointed date;
(c)all such sums of money as are received as
interest on investments made by the Board;
(d) all such sums of money as are received by the
Board as gifts and donations;
Capital of the
Board
Fund of the
Board

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
Borrowing
powers of the
Board
(e) all such sums of money as are received by the
Board in the exercise and discharge of its
powers and functions.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the Board in the exercise and discharge of its powers and
functions under this Act.
(4) At the close of each financial year, the Board shall
set apart an amount to create a Reserve Fund which shall be
used at the discretion of the Board to settle claims arising
from unforeseen occurrences.
25. (1) The Board may, with the concurrence of the
Minister, and the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
or in accordance with the terms of any general authority given
with like concurrence, borrow, by way of overdraft or
otherwise, or negotiate and obtain on credit, such sums as the
Board may require for meeting the obligations of the Board or
discharging its functions.
(2) The Board may, with  the consent of the Minister
given with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of  Finance, borrow money otherwise than by way of
loan under subsection (1) for all or any of the following
purposes:-
(a)the requisition or acquisition of any movable or
immovable property required for the business
of the Board;
(b)the repayment of any money borrowed under
subsection (1)
26. Any funds of the Board which are not immediately
required for the purpose of the business of the Board shall be
invested by the Board in high yielding securities at the
maximum obtainable rates of interest.
Investment of
the Funds of
the Board.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
Accounts and
Balance sheet.
27. The Board shall cause its books to be balanced on
the thirty - first day of December in each year and shall not
later than the thirtieth day of April next following prepare a
profit and loss account and a balance sheet containing a
summary of the assets and liabilities of the Board made up to
the date aforesaid, prepared and signed by the officer
responsible for the preparation of such accounts and balance
sheet.
28. Article 154 of the Constitution shall apply to the
audit of the accounts of the Board.
PART IV
G
ENERAL
29. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Control of
Insurance Act or any other written law, and accordingly, in
the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the
provisions of this Act and such other law, the provisions of
this Act shall prevail.
30. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie -
(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by the Board
under this Act ; or
(b) against any member , officer, servant or agent of
the Board for any act which in good faith is done
or purported to be done by him under this Act
or on the direction of the Board.
(2) Any expense incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any court in respect
of any act which is done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Board shall, if the court holds that the act was
done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund.
Audit of
Accounts.
This Act to
prevail over
other written
law.
Protection of
action

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
Property of the
Republic both
immovable and
movable to be
made available,
to the Board and
acquisition of
immovable
property under
the Land
Acquisition Act
for the Board.
31. (1) Where any immovable property of the Republic is
required for the purpose of the business of the Board, such
purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special
grant or lease of such property may be made under section 6
of the Crown Lands Ordinance, and accordingly, the
provisions of that Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or
lease of such property to the Board
(2) Where any movable property of the Republic is required
for the purpose of the business of the Board. the Minister
may by Order published in the Gazette transfer to and vest in
the Board the possession and use of such movable property.
(3) Where any immovable property is required to be
acquired for the purpose of the business of the Board , and
the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approves of
the proposed acquisition, that property shall be deemed to be
required for a public purpose and may accordingly be
acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and be transferred
to the Board.
( 4 ) Any sum payable as compensation for the
acquisition of any immovable property under the Land
Acquisition Act for the purposes of the Board shall be paid
by the Board out of the Fund.
32. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose
of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act or in respect of matters which are
required by this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
Regulations

<!-- page 14 -->

13Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
33. (1) The Agricultural Insurance Law, No.27 of 1973
is hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Agricultural
Insurance Law, No. 27 of 1973 -
(a) all contracts entered into by the Agricultural
Insurance Board established by that Law and
subsisting on the day preceding the appointed
date shall be deemed, with effect from the
appointed date to be contracts entered into with
the Board and may be enforced accordingly;
(b) all actions and proceedings instituted by or
against the Agricultural Insurance Board
established by that Law and pending on the day
preceding the appointed date shall be  deemed,
with effect from the appointed date, to be
actions and proceedings instituted by or against
the Board and may be continued accordingly;
(c)all decrees and orders entered in favour of,or
against, the Agricultural Insurance Board
established by that Law and remaining
unsatisfied on the day preceding the appointed
date shall be deemed, with effet from the
appointed date, to be decrees and orders
entered in favour of, or against, the Board, as
the case may be, and may be enforced accordingly;
(d) all powers and duties conferred or imposed on
the Agricultural Insurance Board established by
that Law, by the Farmers Pension and Social
Security Benefit Scheme Act, No.12 of 1987 the
Fisherman’s Pension and  Social Securities
Benefit Scheme Act, No.23 of 1990, shall be
deemed, with effect from the appointed date, to
be powers and duties conferred or imposed on
the Board, and accordingly, references in the
Farmers Pension and Social Security Benefit
Scheme Act, No.12 of 1987 and the Fisherman’s
Pension and Social Security Benefit Scheme Act,
No.23 of 1990 respectively, to the “Agricultural
Insurance Board” shall be deemed to be
references to “the Board”.
Repeal and
transitional
provisions

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
(e) all property movable or immovable owned by
the Agricultural Insurance Board establlished
by that Law and used for the purpose of the
Board on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date shall vest in the Board with
effect from the appointed date;
(f)all debts and liabilities of the Agricultural
Insurance Board established by that Law and
subsisting on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date shall be deemed to be debts and
liabilities of the Board with effect from the
appointed date;
(g) all officers and servants of the Agricultural
Insurance Board established by that Law on the
day immediately preceding the appointed date
who accept  employment with the Board shall be
employed by the Board on such terms and
conditions as are not less favourable than the
terms and conditions of employment that were
applicable to them on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date;
(h) all moneys lying to the credit of the Agricultural
Insurance Board established by that Law on the
day immediately preceding the appointed date
shall stand transferred with effect from that date
to the Fund of the Board established under this Act.
34. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail
35. In this Act -
“agriculturist” means a person, Agrarian Services
Committee or Farmer Organization established or
registered under the Agrarian Services Act, No.58 of 1979,
or a Company registered under the Companies Act,
   No. 17 of 1982 or co-operative  Society  registered  under
   the Co-operative Societies
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency
Interpretation

<!-- page 16 -->

15Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
Law, No. 5 of 1972 or any other society
registered under any law for the time being in
force or any Non Governmental Organization,
carrying on any activity relating to agriculture,
horticulture, medicinal plants, livestock ,
fisheries or forestry ;
“approved credit agency” means any co-operative society
or other institution for the time being duly
recognized by the Board for the purposes of this
Act;
“Notional Farmers’ Association” means a national
farmers’ association recognized by the Minister
having regard to the services provided by such
association;
“Prescribed” means prescribed by regulation made under
this Act;
“public corporation” means any corporation, Board or other
body which was or is established by or under
any written law, other  than  the Companies’ Act,
No.17 of 1982 with capital wholly or partly
provided by the Government by way of grant,
loan or other form.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance
Act, No.20 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , No. 32,
T RANSWORKS  H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect
                                                  of the year following.