

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
————————
Presented by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional Reforms on 29th of August, 2022
(Published in the Gazette on July 18, 2022)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 142]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
BILL
A
PREVENTION OF FRAUDS (AMENDMENT)
to amend the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance (Chapter 70)

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2  : This clause amends section 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance
(Chapter 70) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of
the section is to set out new requirements for signing a deed or instrument.
Clause 3  : This clause amends section 4 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section is to set out new requirements for signing a will, testament or codicil.
Clause 4  : This clause is consequential to the amendment made by Clause 3.
Clause 5  : This clause amends section 16 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section is to make provision for deeds to be executed in triplicate.

<!-- page 3 -->

1 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
Short title
5
10
15
20
25
L.D.—O. 71/2021
AN ACT TO AMEND THE PREVENTION OF FRAUDS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 70)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Frauds
(Amendment) Act, No……of 2022.
2. Section 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance
(Chapter 70) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:-
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1);
(2) by the repeal of all the words from “shall be of force”
to the end of renumbered subsection (1) of that section
and the substitution therefore of the following:-
“shall be in force or avail in law unless –
(a) the relevant deed or instrument shall be in
writing, signed by every executant or
authorized person of such executant and
attested by a notary public before two
witnesses present at the same time; and
(b) the left or right thumb impression of every
such executant or his authorized person or
where both thumbs of such executant or his
authorized person are missing, the
impression of any other finger or the toe
impression as the case may be, is affixed
above or besides the signature to the
original, duplicate and the protocol of the
relevant deed or instrument:
Amendment
of section 2
of
Chapter 70

<!-- page 4 -->

2  Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
Provided however, in the event the
signature or the thumb impression of any
such executant or his authorized person
cannot be obtained due to any reason, the
notary public shall state such reason in the
attestation, and such executant or his
authorized person shall affix any other
finger impression or toe impression, as the
case may be.”;
(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsection:-
“(2) In relation to a transfer deed –
(a) both the transferor and the transferee
shall affix their signatures and thumb
impressions as required by subsection
(1); and
(b) if the transferee is a minor, the legal
guardian or guardian or the person
authorized by the legal guardian or
guardian as the case may be, shall be
a competent person to act on behalf
of the transferee for the purpose of this
section.”.
3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1);
(2) by the repeal of all the words from “in the manner
hereinafter mentioned;” to the end of renumbered
subsection (1) of that section and the substitution
therefor of the words “subject to the provisions
specified in subsection (2) or (3) as the case may
be.”;
Amendment
of section 4
of the
principal
enactment
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

3 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, the following new subsections: -
“(2) The testator or his authorized person shall –
(a) sign; and
(b) affix his left or right thumb impression,
at the foot or end of the will, testament or codicil
referred to in subsection (1), before a notary public
and two witnesses who shall be present at the same
time:
 Provided however, in the event the thumb
impression of the testator or of his authorized
person cannot be obtained due to any reason, he
shall affix any other finger impression or the toe
impression, as the case may be.
(3) (a) If the testator is not in a position to comply
with the requirements specified in paragraph ( a)
of subsection (2), he may authorize any other
person to sign on behalf of him, and shall comply
with the requirements specified in paragraph ( b)
of subsection (2).
(b) If the testator is not in a position to comply
with the requirements specified in paragraphs ( a)
and ( b) of subsection (2), he may authorize any
other person to sign and affix the left or right thumb
impression or any other finger impression or the
toe impression as the case may be, of such person,
on behalf of him.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 6 -->

4  Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
(c) The signature and such impression referred
to in paragraphs (a) and (b), shall be acknowledged
by the testator in the presence of the notary public
and two witnesses:
Provided that, in the event the signature or
thumb impression of any such testator or his
authorized person cannot be obtained due to any
reason, the notary public shall state such reason
in the attestation, and such testator or his
authorized person shall affix any other finger
impression or toe impression as the case may be.”.
4. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows: –
(1) by the substitution for the word “signature” of the
words “signature and the left or right thumb
impression or any other finger impression or the toe
impression as the case may be, of the testator or in
the event it is executed on behalf of the testator by
his authorized person then the signature and the left
or right thumb impression or any other finger
impression or the toe impression as the case may be,
of such authorized person”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after that section of
the following proviso:-
“Provided however that, in the event the signature
or left or right thumb impression or any other finger
impression as the case may be of the testator or his
authorized person cannot be obtained due to any
reason, the testator or his authorized person shall
affix his toe impression and the notary public shall
state such reason in his attestation.”.
Amendment
to section 7
of the
principal
enactment
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

5 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
5. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the substitution for the word “duplicate.” of the
word “triplicate.”; and
(2) by the repeal of the marginal note thereof and the
substitution therefore of the following: -
“Deeds to be executed in Triplicate”
6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
Amendment
to section 16
of the
principal
enactment
Sinhala text
to prevail in
the case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 8 -->

6  Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING