

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
w;s úfYI
wxl 2364$32 - 2023 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'12'29
No. 2364/32 -  fridAy ,  december   29,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 6596 - 16 (12/2023)
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Proclamations made by the Hon. Governor
i, roshan Goonethileke, the Governor of Western Province, by virtue of powers vested in me under Section 32 of 
Provincial councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 do hereby notify that the Western Provincial council Public Service Procedural 
rules formulated to allocate provisions relating to appointments, promotions and transfers of the Western Provincial 
Council Public Service and matters consequential thereto, and described in the following Schedule shall come into effect
from 01st of January, 2024.
  
It is hereby further notified that the Western Provincial Council Public Service Procedural Rules formulated in terms 
of Section 32 of Provincial councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and published in Gazette No. 2055/13 of the democratic Socialist 
republic of Sri Lanka on  24th  January 2018 will be repealed from the date these rules come into effect.
It is further notified that these Procedural Rules shall be implemented without prejudice to any measures taken by 
the Western Provincial Public Service commission or by its delegated authorities under the Western Provincial council Public 
Service Procedural rules formulated   in terms of Section 32 of Provincial councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 and published 
in Gazette No. 2055/13 of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka on 24th   January  2018  or, any measure taken 

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
2A
under a circular provision issued to amend any provision or chapter of the establishments code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka by the date these rules come into effect.
 Roshan Goonetileke, 
 rWP and bAr VSV USP Phd (Hons), fim 
 (Sri Lanka) ndc psc, 
 marshal of the Sri Lanka Air force,
 Governor,
 Western Province.
At  Governors' Office - Western Province,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
battaramulla,
21st december, 2023.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
ScHedULe
Rules
 01. These rules shall be enforced to allocate provisions relating to appointments, transfers in the Western Provincial 
council Public Service and matters consequential thereto and to allocate provisions to repeal the Procedural rules of 
Western Provincial council Public Service included in the Extraordinary Gazette Paper No. 2055/13 dated 24.01.2018 
of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
 02. These rules shall be cited as Procedural rules of the Western Provincial council Public Service 
 03. A position in the Western Provincial Council Public Service approved as such shall consist of officers appointed 
by the relevant appointing authority on permanent, casual, temporary, substitute and contract basis and  officers in 
the All-Island Service released from the public Service for a position approved thus, and officers of the Provincial 
department of revenue, which are closed Services of the Western Provincial Public Service. 
 04. Where any difficulty encountered while implementing these Procedural Rules, the right to interpretation and the right 
to draw other conclusions in that regard shall be vested in the Governor. 
 05. The Western Provincial council Public Service commission shall be responsible to the Governor that the powers 
entrusted to it by the Governor under Section 32 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 will be executed 
properly. 
 06. in an occasion where the Provincial Public commission under Section 32 of Provincial councils Act No. 42 of 1987 
amended by the Provincial Councils (Amended) Act No. 28 of 1990 delegates power, the authority exercising such 
delegated power shall be responsible to the Western Provincial Public Service commission and the Governor with 
regard to proper exercising of such delegated powers. 
 07. Provincial Public Service commission has the power to alter, decrease or annul any decision taken by the authority 
delegating power under the powers assigned by the Provincial Public Service commission, or, terms or a decision 
taken under these Procedural rules. 
 08. The Governor has the power to alter, decrease or annul terms or decisions made by the Provincial Public Service 
Commission in relation to exercise of these Procedural Rules.
 09. Powers entrusted to the Provincial Public Service Commission shall be exercised by the Provincial Public Service 
itself and those powers should not be treated as if they have been delegated separately to the members of the Provincial 
Public Service commission. 
 10. Whatever decisions taken by the Provincial Public Service commission delegated with powers by the Governor or 
the authority authorized by the said Commission shall be in accordance with the existing law, sub-laws relevant to it 
and procedural rules and should be impartial, fair, with bona fide intent and transparent.
 11. Sub-committees may be appointed by the Provincial Public Service commission to perform tasks easily, and where 
such sub-committees have been appointed, decisions taken under such sub-committees shall be considered as decisions 
taken by the Provincial Public Service Commission itself and subjected to due responsibility. 
 12. decisions taken by whatever authority delegated with powers shall be taken within the limits of such delegated 
powers and subject field relevant to such delegated powers, whereas, decisions or actions taken exceeding such shall 
be treated as invalid actions or decisions. 
 13. Powers designated by the Provincial Public Service commission shall be implemented by the authority itself with 
which such powers were delegated and shall no way be delegated to other person. 

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
4A
 14.  Any damage or loss caused by an invalid decision taken by the authority with which such powers have been delegated, 
the same delegated authority shall be severally and jointly liable for such damage or loss.
 15. In the event that the authority delegating power has exercised powers contrary to these Procedural Rules or has acted 
under any influence or taken decisions, the said action should be treated as an offence taken under Schedule I of the 
disciplinary Procedures of the Western Provincial Public Service or chapter XLViii in Schedule i  of the e stablishments 
code of the Public Service.
 16. The Provincial Public Service commission shall prescribe the forms and related instructions to be introduced in the 
effective implementation of these procedural rules. 
 17. Every delegated officer should act with due zeal and enthusiasm to exercise the powers assigned to him under the 
Provincial Public Service.
 18. The Provincial Public Service commission should act to provide the related instructions promptly and speedily in 
any case any advice is sought in the implementation of the powers assigned to it.
 19. When implementing powers entrusted to him, if any authority delegated with power experiences a delay in 
implementation of such powers due to a matter external to his control or  converts to a situation where such powers 
become unimplementable, the relevant delegated authority shall take action to report to the Provincial Public Service 
commission in that regard. 
 20.  A delegated authority enjoys the right to inquire instructions from the Provincial Public Service Commission with 
regard to problems that arise in the implementation of delegated powers,
 21. Provincial Public Service commission, when functioning under the powers delegated by the Governor may inquire 
instructions from the Governor with regard to a problem that arise in the implementation of delegated powers.
CHAPTER  I
Appointments 
 22. Subjected to policy decisions taken by the Governor from time to time and powers assigned by the Governor as per 
provisions stated in Section 32 of the Provincial councils Act No. 42 of 1987, Western Provincial Public Service 
commission (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the Provincial Public Service commission) has the power to make 
the following mentioned appointments for the posts in the Public Service of Western Province.
 i. Appointment to any post in the nature of permanent, casual, substitute, contract, attend to the duties or acting 
in the post
 ii. Changing the service status of an officer holding a position in the Western Provincial Public Service
 iii. Appointment of an officer holding a position in the Western Provincial Public Service to some other position
 iV . Promotion of a certain service status of an officer in the Western Provincial Public Service
 23.  The appointments described in the above section can be made by a delegated officer in accordance with the powers 
delegated by the Western Provincial council Public Service commission in terms of Section 32 of the Provincial 
councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as amended by Provincial councils Amendment Act No. 28 of 1990.
 24.  The above provisions shall not prejudice any decision taken by the Appellate Officer in relation to the vacation of post 
or reinstatement of the concerned officer after consideration of an appeal in relation to a disciplinary order in respect 
of an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 25. regardless of what is mentioned under the above section, an appointment made to cover the duties of any position 
as an internal program to keep the administrative affairs of any institution up-to-date can be made by the Head of the 
concerned institution or the Head of the department.
Basic Matters Relating to Appointments
 26. When appointing an officer retired from service to a post in Western Provincial Public Service on contract basis, the 
appointing authority should function only on the approval of the Governor.
 27. An appointment on casual basis shall be made only if sufficient financial provision for the work in question is allocated 
in the annual estimates or in the sanctioned estimate for the work in question. With the completion of the relevant 
work, the employment of that person ends. A casual employee shall not be entitled to permanent or any other post 
on the basis of casual appointment. However, only those who meet the qualifications specified in the recruitment 
procedure for the post should be considered for casual appointment.
 28. in the case of non-attendance of the regular post holder of any post, if a substitute appointment has to be made to 
cover the work of that post as an emergency, only a person qualified as per the approved recruitment procedure shall 
be considered for that post and the appointment of those substitutes should be done only on the basis of payment of 
daily wages. The appointment of substitutes shall cease when the holder of the permanent regular post returns and 
reports for duty. 
 29.  Any appointment made on permanent or contract or temporary or acting in post or attend to the duties or cover work 
basis should be made only for a given position which is included in the approved staff of the relevant institution and 
which comprises a properly adopted service minute or recruitment procedure and have been provided with financial 
provisions under the budget document.
 30.  Except in an appointment made to acting in a post or to attend to the duties or cover work, when filling every vacancy, 
they shall be published by advertisements according to properly approved service minute or recruitment procedure. 
 31. The Appointing Authority shall satisfy itself that the following conditions are fulfilled before making the appointment.
 i.  That the post concerned is within the cadre approved by the appropriate authority;
 ii.  That money has been allocated for that purpose;
 iii.  That there is indeed a vacancy in the cadre;
 iV .  that the appointment is in fact in accordance with the properly approved service constitution or recruitment 
procedure;
 V .  That he has been authorized for the purpose of appointment;
 32. A post shall not be deemed to be vacant when the holder of that post is on leave with or without pay or temporarily 
released for other duties or under suspension or on pre-retirement leave. However, if the appointing authority deems 
it suitable according to the needs of the service, he can appoint any person to perform the duties of that post or to act 
in the post.
 33. Except on a substitute or casual basis, every appointment in the Western Provincial Council Public Service should be 
made only in accordance with the approved service minute or recruitment procedure.
 34. The effective date of an appointment is the date specified in the relevant letter of appointment or the date on which 
the officer formally assumes office, whichever is later. However, if an officer is prevented from taking up his new post 
after his appointment because he is temporarily released for some other duty or is abroad on duty or due to a matter 
beyond his control, the appointing authority shall determine the effective date of the appointment. 

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
6A
  However, in cases where applications are invited from internal applicants under limited and merit streams, the effective 
date of appointment shall be decided by the appointing authority subject to the provisions mentioned under Procedural 
rules 37 and 38.
 35. No person shall be appointed to a post in the Western Provincial Public Service on a non-salary basis or on a voluntary 
basis unless provided for by any written law.
Antedating the Appointment
 36. No appointing authority shall antedate an appointment except with the approval of the Provincial Public Service 
commission.
 37.  A request for antedating of any appointment should be submitted to the Provincial c ouncil Public Service c ommission 
with the recommendations of the Chief Secretary and it should be satisfied that the following conditions are fulfilled 
in respect of such a request.
 i. from which date is it proposed to antedate an appointment, from that date onwards, there shall be a regular 
vacancy in the relevant position.
 ii. From which date is it proposed to antedate an appointment, the appointed officer should have obtained the full 
qualifications required for the said appointment as per the recruitment procedure or service minute in force on 
that day.
 iii. The appointment proposed to be antedated must have been made in accordance with the approved service minute 
or recruitment procedure.
 38. in any occasion below mentioned, an appointment will not allowed to be antedated on whatever reason.
 i. If, by reason of such promotion, the officer concerned has a higher seniority for that post or grade than an officer 
appointed before him or with him, or if there is any difference in the seniority decided on selection for that post.
 ii. If the appointment is made wholly or partly on the basis of the result of a competitive examination or on the 
basis of the result of an interview for which marks are given and the antedating has been proposed to a date 
prior to the date on which the said examination or interview was held;
 iii. If the antedating has been proposed to a date prior to the date on which qualifications were checked as per the 
notice calling for applications for appointment;
 iV . If recruitment has been done by inviting applications from external applicants under the open stream;
CHAPTER  II
Service Minutes and Recruitment Procedures
Approving
 39. every approved position in the Provincial Public Service must have a service minute or recruitment procedure. 
Qualifications for recruitment, recruitment process, salary scales, service conditions, promotion procedures, professional 
ethics and all other relevant details should be included in the service minute or recruitment procedure.
 40. draft of the recruitment procedure should be prepared as per the standard format. drafts of the recruitment procedures 
and service minutes should be referred to the chief Secretary by the Secretary of the relevant provincial ministry and 

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
together with the chief Secretary’s recommendation; it should be referred to the Provincial Public Service commission. 
At the time of such reference of the draft, a schedule containing the proposed amendments should be attached to it. 
The Provincial Public Service commission shall consider the draft that includes chief Secretary’s recommendation 
and refer it to the Governor along with commission’s recommendations. The relevant minute or recruitment procedure 
shall come into to effect from the date it receives the assent of the Governor.  
 41. Whenever the service minute or the recruitment procedure needs to be amended, the reasons for such amendment, 
matters to be amended, paragraphs and lines relevant to such amendments should be included into the relevant service 
minute or recruitment procedure and in the amended service minute or amended recruitment procedure amended parts 
should be highlighted by underlining them.  
 42. The Governor has the power to approve or amend or re-direct or reject or revoke a recruitment procedure or service 
minute or proposed amendments thereto recommended by the Provincial Public Service c ommission. Also, the 
Governor has the power to instruct the Provincial council Public Service commission to prepare a service minute or 
recruitment procedure for any service or position in the Provincial council Public Service or to amend an approved 
service minute or recruitment procedure as directed by the Governor either by having consulted the relevant authorities 
or on its own initiative according to the existing national standards.
 43. When a new recruitment procedure or service minute is enforced by repealing or amending an approved recruitment 
procedure or service minute, the relevant procedure or service minute should be enforced by having included the 
suitable provisions to the new procedure in order to protect the legal expectations under that procedure for the officers 
recruited under the existing procedure.
CHAPTER   III
 Persons not suitable to be recruited to the  Provincial Public Service of Western Province 
 44.  The following persons are not eligible to be recruited to the Western Provincial Public Service.
  i.   A person who is not a Sri Lankan citizen or a person deprived of citizenship rights. 
 
 ii.  Any of the following persons who have been employed in Public Service or Provincial Public Service or in the 
service of a public corporation or statutory body 
 (a) A person who has been compulsorily sent on retirement on grounds of general incapacity;
 (b)  A person who has been sent on retirement as a compassionate alternative to dismissal;
 (c) A person who has been sent on retirement or dismissed for disciplinary reasons;
 (d) A person who vacated the position;
 iii. A person who has been convicted by a court of law of a criminal offense committed against the Democratic 
Socialist republic of Sri Lanka;
 iV . A person who has been convicted by a court of any criminal act or has been convicted by a Summary Procedure 
under section 449 of the code of criminal Procedure;
 V.  A person who is declared a bankrupt 

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
8A
CHAPTER IV
Terms and conditions affecting appointments
 45. All the officers of Provincial Public Service shall hold their positions as a trust held on behalf of the public. Every 
person who is appointed to a position in the Western Provincial Public Service must fulfill the duties and responsibilities 
related to that position without failure for the betterment of the republic and its people.
 46. It is the duty of every public official to act as shown below.
 i. To uphold and follow the constitution and all written laws;
 ii. Promote national prosperity and foster national unity;
 iii. To work conscientiously in one's chosen occupation;
 iV . Safeguarding and protecting public property, acting against misuse and waste of public property;
 V.  respect the rights and freedom of speech of others and;
 Vi. conservation of nature and natural resources.
 47. Every Officer in Provincial Public Service shall comply with the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka, the law, the statutes related to the Western Province, the policy decisions taken by the Government and the 
Governor, the procedural rules related to the Western Provincial Public Service, the financial rules and other orders 
and Regulations. Further, they should act in compliance and with sufficient knowledge relating to service minutes, 
recruitment procedures, establishments code of the Government, circular instructions and amendments made to them 
from time to time.  
 48.   every person appointed to a permanent and pensionable position shall contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension 
Scheme or the Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension scheme or any other pension scheme introduced by the Government 
as applicable. The amount of contribution payable thereto shall be as prescribed by the Government from time to 
time.
 49. A person appointed to a casual, temporary or contract basis position devoid of permanent and pensionable status shall 
contribute to the Public Service Provident fund. The amount of contribution payable thereto shall be as prescribed 
by the Government from time to time.
 50. In cases where the Government Officers' Bail Ordinance is required, a bond shall be placed by an officer of the Western 
Provincial Public Service in the manner and in the amount determined by the Head of the department.
 51. An officer in the Western Provincial Public Service is bound to serve in any area of the Western Province. 
 52. Every officer appointed to a position on a permanent basis or on a contract basis must be certified by a medical 
examination to be physically and mentally fit to work in any part of Sri Lanka. The medical examination shall be 
conducted by the Secretary of the ministry of Health or by the director General of Health Services or at a Government 
hospital in accordance with the procedure determined as follows.
 i. When a person who does not hold a permanent position in the Western Provincial Public Service has been 
selected for permanent appointment or appointment with a probationary period with the intention of being 
appointed to permanent service, the Head of the institution where the vacancy has arisen should order the 
candidate who has been so selected to complete the Health form 169 and submit it to the Government 
Medical Officer in charge of the nearest hospital and undergo a medical examination. There should be no 
charge for this test.
 ii. The Medical Officer should conduct an examination and fill in the health form No. 169 and submit it to 
the director of regional Health Services of his division through the Head of his institution. The director 
of regional Health Services shall complete the report and submit it to the Head of department if it is 

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
found that the applicant is in a suitable physical condition to be appointed, and to the director General 
of Health Services if it is found that the applicant is in an unsuitable physical condition to be appointed. 
if it is submitted to the director General of Health Services,  the director General of Health Services  
shall inform the Head of the Department whether the candidate is fit to be appointed or whether further 
medical examination should be conducted on him.
 iii. The head of the department should ensure that no salary is paid to any newly appointed officer until the 
medical report written in the Health form No.  169A is received. However, if the delay is not due to the 
fault of the officer concerned, the Head of the institution can pay the salary according to his discretion.
 iV . If it is confirmed according to the medical report that the person is not physically or mentally fit to be 
appointed, the appointment given to him should be cancelled. but he should be entitled to wages for the 
period he has worked. 
 53. Every person who is appointed to a position in the Western Provincial Public Service must take the affirmation or 
oaths shown in the fourth, fifth and Seventh Schedules of the constitution.
 54. Every official of the Western Provincial Public Service must acquire proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil and English, as 
applicable, as prescribed in accordance with the Government's Language policies.
 55. If an officer who is drawing a monthly salary in the Western Provincial Public Service intends to resign from his 
post, he should inform his appointing authority in writing one calendar month prior to such date of resignation about 
such decision unless otherwise mentioned in his appointment letter. He may resign from his post after paying to the 
government an amount equal to one months’ salary, only if the appointing authority agrees. However, a resignation 
of an officer in the Provincial Public Service will be effective only from that date on which the appointing authority 
has decided and notified a certain date as the date of acceptance of said resignation.
 56. When the appointing authority intends to terminate the appointment of an official who receives a monthly salary 
but not been affirmed in the Western Provincial Public Service, the appointing authority must grant a one-month 
postponement to that official according to the conditions mentioned in the letter of appointment.
 57. The appointing authority may terminate the service of persons appointed on substitute or casual basis without prior 
notice.
 58. Whenever it was revealed that any person who has been appointed to any post in the Western Provincial Public Service 
has been appointed on the basis of false information or false documents furnished by that person to the appointing 
authority or any other relevant authority; at any time after the person has assumed duties and before getting confirmed 
in the service in the relevant post, having formally notified the said officer regarding the relevant charge, he should be 
given an opportunity to present his facts about it. In the event that the explanation of the relevant facts is not acceptable, 
the appointment should be immediately cancelled and considered as null and void. And even then, action should be 
taken to recover all the money paid to him by the government or the provincial council as salaries and allowances.
 59. A person who has been appointed to a position in the service of the Western Provincial Public Service should be 
referred to the appointing authority for a decision on the appointment as soon as it is discovered that he does not have 
the basic qualifications for the position.
CHAPTER  V
Procedure to be followed at Recruitments
 60. The appointing authority should fill the vacancies in the approved carder as per the approved service minute and 
recruitment procedure without undue delay.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
10A
 61. The appointing authority shall take measures to conduct examinations, trade tests, interviews or all of them as prescribed 
in the recruitment procedure or service minute as appropriate. 
Conducting Examinations and Tests
 62.  I.  Recruitment examinations including other examinations related to Provincial Public Service shall be conducted 
by the Provincial Public Service commission or relevant appointing authority and the rules Pertaining to 
Examination Affairs declared by the Governor in that regard shall apply therein. 
  ii. Where provisions have been allocated by the service minute or recruitment procedure that a competitive 
examination should be held, the applicants should directly send their applications to the authority that holds the 
examination. It shall be the responsibility of the appointing authority to prepare and publish the advertisement 
for application calling accordingly. 
  iii. An advertisement published regarding the above recruitment should also include the following points.
 i. The date on which the number of officers expected to be recruited or the vacancies will be counted.
 ii. Date by which applicants should have completed the qualifications
  iV . In the event that the date of application is extended due to any reason, the date mentioned in the initial notification 
regarding the date applicants should have completed qualifications, should not be changed. 
 63. In addition to a written competitive examination for recruitment, if the service minute or the recruitment procedure 
provides that it should include a trade test or a practical test or a physical fitness test or any other test, then the written 
competitive examination should be conducted first.
 64. Where the service minute or recruitment procedure provides for recruitment with a scored interview and/or other 
scored test, the authority who conducted the examination should arrange the name list of candidates in alphabetical 
order of merit obtained in the examination without marks, to be sent to the appointing authority for interview-related 
matters.
 65. The interview panels shall be appointed by the appointing authority in accordance with the approved service minute 
or recruitment procedure, as the case may be.
 66. Unless otherwise specified in the approved service minute or recruitment procedures, as appropriate, an interviewing 
panel shall consist of not more than five members and at least three members, including its chairman, who is an official 
of the government or Provincial Public Service subject to the following conditions. 
 i. Among the members of the interview panel, at least one of the subordinate members should be from the ministry 
or department in which the vacancy exists. 
 ii. Whenever possible, the interview panel should be appointed to consist of both male and female representation. 
 iii. in order to facilitate the use of the three languages, the interview panel may be provided with the services of 
an official interpreter.
 67.  Unless otherwise prescribed in the approved service constitution or recruitment procedure or notice inviting applications 
for recruitment or otherwise, as may be appropriate; the number of applicants to be called for interview shall be 
decided by the appointing authority according to the number of vacancies concerned and the order of merit of the 
total marks obtained by them in the written examination and/or in the trade test or in any other such test in which the 
marks referred to in section 63 are awarded to all of them. 

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 68. in case selection is made by means of an interview along with awarding of marks without written examination or 
an interview and another test giving marks referred to in section 64, the interview shall be a structured interview or 
an interview to assess merit, and in the advertisement calling applications for the posts shall mention about all those 
tests. Also, the manner of giving marks for those tests should be included in the said notification.
 69. The following information and documents should be supplied to the interview board. 
 (a)   Approved service minute or recruitment procedure as appropriate;
 (b) Advertisements inviting applications; 
 (c)  A summary of the number of applicants and qualifications;
 (d)  interview schedule 
 70. Each applicant must be interviewed by a full interview panel. No person other than an Interpreter Officer who is not 
a member of the interview panel should attend the interview. A pencil should not be used for marking during the 
interview and a carbon pen or an indelible ink pen should be used.
 71. The interview panel shall ensure that the copies of all the documents submitted by the applicants at the interview 
are duly certified by them and handed over to the interview panel. Then the said documents should be submitted to 
the concerned appointing authority or administrative authority along with the supporting documents of the interview 
panel.
 72. in the event of awarding marks for the performance shown in the interview, a merit list shall be prepared by the board 
of interview immediately after the interview is over, according to the order of marks obtained by the applicants and 
it shall be attached to the schedule of interview notes and every member of the board of interview shall sign each 
page of those documents. 
 73. in the event that an interview has to be held to allocate marks, as the case may be, after a written examination and/
or a trade test, marks obtained by the applicants at the written examination and/or the trade test shall not be made 
available to the board of interview. The results of a written examination and/or the trade test shall not be publicized for 
whatever reason until the Appointing Authority takes a final decision regarding the appointments. Its confidentiality 
shall be preserved to the utmost. 
 74. After duly verifying the accuracy of the registers prepared by the board of interview based on the merit obtained in 
the interview for which marks are given and the register prepared according to the merit obtained in the other test for 
which marks are given, it  should be sent to the authority who conducted the examination. 
 75. In the event of not conducting a written examination, the appointing authority shall take actions to prepare a list of 
final merits after calculating the marks obtained in the interview and the marks obtained in the other test. 
 76. in the event that the Provincial Public Service commission is the appointing authority, the secretary of the Provincial 
Public Services shall submit a register of the applicants prepared in order of merits obtained, examination results, 
schedules of the interview and the recommendations of the board of interview along with their recommendation on 
the number of posts to be made to the commission. 
 77. The results of a written examination and/or any other test, for which marks are allocated, shall not be publicized for 
whatever reason until the consent of the appointing authority is given. After the selection process is over, the list of 
the appointees shall be publicized by the appointing authority. 

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
12A
 78. in the event that a structured interview or a test to evaluate the eligibility is not included, as the case may be, in the 
service minutes or the scheme of recruitment approved, the interviews should be held only for the purpose of verifying 
the certificates of the applicants and confirming their qualifications. 
 79. in the event that a structured interview or a test to evaluate the eligibility is included, as the case may be, in the 
approved service minutes or the scheme of recruitment, no marks shall be allocated for anything submitted to the 
board of interview at any time other than the time of the interview. 
 80. The appointing authority shall take actions to draw the attention of the members of the boards of interview on these 
rules before holding an interview or a trade test. 
Selection for Appointment and Appointment Letter 
 81. If the recruitment is made only on the results of a written examination or an interview for which marks are allocated, or 
other test for which marks are allocated, the appointment shall be made strictly in order of the merit of the aggregation 
of the marks obtained in such written examination and interview for which marks are allocated, or other tests for 
which marks are allocated. 
 82. After all the documents to be submitted have been submitted correctly, the Appointing Authority shall deem sufficient 
that the relevant examination or interview or all of them have been conducted according to the, as the case may be, 
approved service minutes or scheme of recruitment and the approved marking system. Thereafter, the Appointing 
Authority may approve the relevant selection in the order of merit obtained in the examination or in the Board of 
interview or in any other test for which marks are allocated or in all of them, taking the recommendations of the board 
of interview into consideration. 
 83. The Appointing Authority shall take actions as soon as possible to issue a formal letter of appointment as described 
under the Appendix to these Procedural Rules after making the selection as mentioned in Section 82 above. 
 84.  When the Provincial Public Service commission is the Appointing Authority, formal letter of appointment in accordance 
with the format under this appendix should be issued by the Provincial Public Service Commission as soon as possible, 
informing the administrative authority about the selection including any changes that are necessary. 
 85. No appointments shall be made exceeding the number of vacancies existed as at the date on which the qualifications 
mentioned in the notice calling for applications were to be fulfilled. 
 86.  in the event that there are more applicants who have obtained equal marks for the last vacancy or several last vacancies 
when making appointments based on the priority list prepared in order of the merit, the delegated Appointing Authority 
shall not function to fill such vacancy or vacancies on the results of the examination, trade test, interview held, unless 
the Provincial Public Service commission has provided instructions to function otherwise, it shall be reported to the 
Provincial Public Service commission without delay and seek instructions therefrom. 
Procedure to be followed after the appointment 
 87. A person who had appointed to a position of the Public Service on any basis, be it casual, temporary or permanent, 
shall immediately acknowledge the Appointing Authority by letters as per the format under the appendix whether he 
accepts the position subject to the terms and conditions set out in the letter of appointment. 
 88.  it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the Head of the department 
or the Head of the institution to ascertain the identity of the person who accepts the appointment in accordance with 
the letter of appointment.
 89. The appointee, on the first day of reporting to work, shall make the affirmation or take the oath in terms of the 
fourth Schedule of the constitution of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka and within one month of 

<!-- page 13 -->

13A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
the appointment in terms of the Seventh Schedule to the constitution respectively before, as the case may be, the 
Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the Head of the department or the Head of the institution. 
it shall be the responsibility of such authority to make arrangements for the appointee to make and subscribe the 
affirmation or take the oath. Failure of an appointee to make the affirmation or take the oath and subscribe them within 
the stipulated time will cause the appointment to cease spontaneously. 
 90. An appointee, on assuming duties shall hand over the following documents to, as the case may be, the Appointing 
Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of the department or Head of the institution.
 (a) certified copy of the National Identity Card;  
 (b) Birth Certificate; 
 (c) Originals and a set of photocopies of the basic educational qualifications, any other academic and professional 
qualifications provided at the interview to prove the basic educational qualifications required for the position; 
(After verifying the photocopies with the originals the relevant authority shall certify and Sign that the photocopies 
are those of the originals and the officer shall certify and sign that those photocopies are copies of genuine 
certificates. The photocopies shall then be retained by the authority and the originals returned to the officer) 
 (d) Marriage Certificate, if married, Birth Certificate of the Spouse and Birth Certificates of the children,
 (e) Service Agreement in terms of the General 160 format;
 (f) declaration of Assets in terms of General 261 format;
 (g) declaration of Assets and Liabilities statement if relevant;
 (h) Permanent address and electronic mail address, telephone numbers and e-mail address.
  The Appointing Authority and the Administrative Authority or the Head of the department or the Head of the 
Institution shall function to get the certificates mentioned in (b) and (c) above verified to be true certificates 
from the relevant authorities within a period of one year from the date of appointment. 
 91. The appointment of a person who fails to report for duty on the due date specified in the letter of appointment, without 
giving reasonable cause in writing, shall be annulled. 
 92. After an appointee to the Provincial Public Service reports for duty, as the case may be, the Appointing Authority or 
Administrative Authority or Head of the department or Head of the institution shall take actions to open up a personal 
file for the officer containing the documents referred to in section 90 above together with documents stated below and 
maintain it up to date. 
 
 (a) Copy of the Appointment Letter issued for the functions of the personal file;
 (b) History Sheet;  
 (c) copy of declaration under the Widows’ & Orphans’ Pension Scheme or the Widowers’ & Orphans’ Pension 
Scheme, as applicable or copy of the declaration on contribution for the Government employees Provident 
fund; 
 (d) Certified copy of the certificate of furnishing security, if required on the nature of the appointment;  
 (e) Medical Examination Report issued in terms of Health 169 Format; 
 (f) Original of the affirmation or oath stated in the Section 89 of this Chapter. 

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
14A
 93. Once an Appointee has reported for duty, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of department 
or Head of Institution shall attach the officer to a unit or branch in his office, or another office or station under him. 
Similarly, the Head of the particular office shall without delay hand over the duty list to the officer in writing. 
 94. Once an appointee has reported for duty, as the case may be, the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority 
shall inform the Auditor General that the officer has assumed duties.
 95. Where the publication of the appointment of an officer to a particular service or post in the Provincial Public Service in 
the Government Gazette is a legal requirement, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority/ Administrative 
Authority to take prompt action to publish such appointment in the Government Gazette. 
Attachment to the Post 
 96.  Persons appointed to a service or position in the Provincial Public Service shall be deployed with relevant attachments 
by the proper authority subjected to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. 
Concessions to Ex-servicemen 
 97. Ex-servicemen of the Army, Navy and Air Force, who are not over 50 years of age, seeking appointment in the 
Provincial Public Service shall be given the following concessions .  
 
 I.  Age Limit 
  If an ex-serviceman falls within the maximum age limit of a post to which he seeks appointment after the period 
of his service in an armed service is subtracted from his age he shall be treated as falling within the prescribed 
age limit.
 II.  Educational Qualifications 
  If an ex-serviceman has obtained the next lower educational level of the minimum educational qualifications 
prescribed in the relevant Scheme of recruitment for the post, other than a post for which a degree recognized 
by the University Grants Commission has been prescribed as educational qualifications, he shall be treated as 
having the prescribed educational qualifications. 
 iii. Technical and Professional Qualifications 
  An ex-serviceman who has gained skills and experience working in relevant technical units of armed services 
shall be treated as having the required technical and professional qualifications.
CHAPTER VI 
Period of Probation and Confirmation of Appointment 
Three Year Probation Period 
 98. The Appointing Authority shall subject every officer appointed to a permanent post in the public service to a 
probation period of three years.  .  
 99. An officer of the public service appointed subject to a period of probation shall prove his suitability for the relevant 
post by diligently fulfilling, during such period, the obligations and responsibilities imposed on him by his letter of 
appointment, good conduct, attendance and efficient service. 

<!-- page 15 -->

15A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 100. It should be taken into consideration that the cause for appointing an officer subject to a probation period is to enable 
him to learn the work related to him and to see whether he is suitable to be retained in permanent service. He should 
not only be provided with every facility to gain experience of the duties and responsibilities of his post, but should 
also be kept under close supervision, sympathetic observation and guidance. 
 101. In the event that the officer, during his period of probation, shows any tendencies which raise doubts about his 
suitability for permanent retention, he should at once be warned and given such assistances as may be possible to 
correct his failings by the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority. Any admonition administered for any 
serious act or omission or any fault of conduct of character which, if persisted in, which may prevent his confirmation, 
should be communicated to him in writing and acknowledgement on such should be obtained by the officer. Such 
acknowledgement shall be conclusive proof of the fact that the officer was warned of his failings and given an 
opportunity for improvement. 
 102. It shall be the duty of the Appointing Authority to terminate the services of an officer on probation when it seems 
that specific instances of misconduct cannot be urged against the officer but whose temperament, behavioral pattern 
and other defects render him unsuitable for further retention in the Western Provincial Public Service. in such an 
instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to such a decision are recorded in detail in 
the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured. The letter of termination shall be prepared 
as per Appendix under these Rules with changes where necessary. 
 103. The Head of the Department shall prepare at the end of first and second year of probation a Review Report relating 
to an appointee of a Provincial Public Service as per the format under the Appendix. On receipt of each of the report 
it should be carefully considered and where necessary he should be warned of any shortcomings. The final Review 
Report together with first and second year reports should be submitted to the Appointing Authority at least 3 months 
prior to the expiry of the probationary period. Before the expiry of the period of probation all three reports should be 
taken into consideration by the Appointing Authority and an order be made either confirming or extending the period 
of probation. The officer concerned should be informed in writing of the decision in each case.
 104. If the Appointing Authority decides that the officer is not fit and suitable to be confirmed in the service, the officer's 
probationary period shall be extended by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of three years and his salary 
increment shall be deferred. The officer should work diligently to improve his performance during the extended period. 
 105. In the event that an inquiry into an irregularity committed by an officer on probation cannot be completed before the 
expiry of the period of probation, his appointment should be terminated or the period of probation extended taking 
into consideration the circumstances of the case. 
 106. At the end of each extended period of probation the Head of the Department or Head of the Institution shall prepare 
a Review Report as per the format prescribed under these Rules. Where such report reveals deficiencies that may 
prevent his suitability for confirmation in his post, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to extend 
the period of probation or terminate the appointment of the officer subject to Section 104 and 105 above. In such an 
instance, the relevant Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to such a decision are recorded in detail in the 
relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured. 
One year Probation Period 
 107. In the event that an officer holding a permanent position in the public service is appointed to another position in the 
public service, he shall be subjected to a probationary period of one year. However, when the period of previous service 
and experience of an officer confirmed in the government service are not criteria in relation to the qualification of a 
new post, such an officer can be subjected to the probationary period of three years. 
 108. If there are any conditions that may be prescribed for the confirmation of the new position, if it is deemed that a 
probationary period of one year is not sufficient considering the average time required for the officer to fulfill them, 
the Appointing Authority may prescribe a probationary period of not more than three years.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
16A
 109. In the event that a public officer whose appointment has been confirmed is appointed to another permanent position in 
the public service subject to a one year probationary period, the Head of the Department or the Head of the Institution 
shall prepare a review report as described under the appendix. 
 110. If any deficiencies that hinder the confirmation of the appointment of the officer is revealed by the review report, the 
Head of the department or the Head of the institution should immediately inform him about it in writing and give 
appropriate guidance, and the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority should defer the salary increment 
of the officer and extend his period of probation by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of three years. 
 111. In the event that an inquiry into any irregularity committed by an officer who is on one year probation period cannot 
be completed before the expiry of that probationary period, the Appointing Authority shall function to extend the 
probationary period of that officer taking into consideration the relevant circumstances of the case.
Confirmation of Appointment or Revert to Former Post or Termination of Appointment 
 112. An officer who has been appointed to a position in the Western Provincial Public Service subjected to a probationary 
period shall, during this period, prove his suitability for the Provincial Public Service by diligently fulfilling the 
responsibilities and duties assigned to him in his letter of appointment, and by serving efficiently through good conduct 
and attendance. if, at the end of the probationary period, it is concluded that the work, conduct and attendance of 
the officer has been satisfactory, and if he has fulfilled all the qualifications for confirmation in the appointment, the 
Appointing Authority shall function to confirm his service with effect from the relevant date of appointment. 
 113. It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to revert an officer appointed under a probationary period of 
one year to his former post if his appointment is terminated at the end of the probationary period. in the event such 
former post of the officer is no longer vacant, he should be reverted to that post on supernumerary basis. However, 
when there is a vacancy in the regular post, arrangements should be made to appoint him to that regular post. in such 
event, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority shall ensure to record all the reasons which led to 
such decision are recorded in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured. When 
an officer is appointed to his former post without any interruption to his former service and reverted to that post, the 
conditions related to that former post shall come into effect once again. 
 114. The Appointing Authority shall function to, as the case may be, confirm the  appointment of an officer in Provincial 
Public Service serving under a period of probation or extend his period of probation or terminate the appointment 
immediately on completion of the such period. If his period of probation has been extended on grounds that were 
within his control, his salary increment shall invariably be deferred until he is confirmed in his post. Whatever all 
such decisions may be, they shall be communicated to the officer in writing by the Appointing Authority. The officer 
shall not be entitled to whatsoever salary increment deferred owing to his lapses. 
 115. Where all requirements have been fulfilled on the due date, the confirmation of an officer of the Western Provincial 
Public Service in a permanent post will become effective only after the Appointing Authority issues a formal letter 
according to the format prescribed thereto conveying such fact. Until such a letter has been issued the officer of the 
Provincial Public Service shall be deemed as not having been confirmed in his appointment. In order to avoid any 
hardship that may be caused to the officer by the delay in issuing a letter even after the fulfillment of all requirements, 
the relevant Appointing Authority shall be mindful of the fact that such letters should be issued duly and without 
delay. 
 116. Where an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service had been unable to obtain qualifications during the 
prescribed period for confirmation in his appointment owing to reasons beyond his control, the Appointing Authority 
may extend his probation by a reasonable period of time. It shall be the duty of the officer to obtain the required 
qualifications for confirmation in his appointment during the extended length of time. In such an instance, the officer 
shall be confirmed in his appointment in such manner that it will have no adverse effect on his seniority and salary 
increments. Provided, however, that the Appointing Authority shall terminate his appointment if the officer fails to 
obtain the required qualifications during the extended period of probation owing to his negligence or inattention.

<!-- page 17 -->

17A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 117. Where an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service fails to qualify for confirmation at the proper time, that is 
within the initial period of probation, for reasons within his control, but qualifies for confirmation during an extension 
of the period of probation granted to him, the salary increment falling due after the expiry of the initial period of 
probation will be deferred by the length of time taken in excess of the initial period allowed to qualify, and he shall 
be confirmed in his appointment with effect from the date of his appointment and seniority in his grade or service 
will be determined by the date on which he qualified for confirmation. 
 118. However, the Governor has the power to pass a decision regarding the confirmation of the appointment of the officer, 
in the event, the probationary period specified in the letter of appointment cannot be completed due to the fact that 
he has reached the age of compulsory retirement or due to a reason beyond his control. 
CHAPTER VII 
Appointment to Act in a Post or Attend to the Duties of a Post 
Appointment to Act in a Post
 119. The authority for making an appointment to act in any post or to attend to the duties of a post lies solely with the 
Appointing Authority. 
 120. An officer of the Western Provincial Public Service may be appointed to act in a particular post only under the following 
circumstances.
 i. To bear the responsibilities and perform the work in the event a substantive holder of a particular post in an 
approved cadre of a provincial ministry, department or institution is away from work for a particular length of 
time with due approval or; 
 ii. To bear the responsibilities and perform the work of a particular vacant post in an approved cadre of a provincial 
ministry, department or institution, until such time the Appointing Authority makes a permanent appointment 
to fill the vacancy. 
 121. Only an officer who is confirmed in his substantive post serving in a comparable post or a post immediately below it 
and has fulfilled all the qualifications stipulated in the approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment of the 
relevant post can be appointed to act.
 122. An acting appointment is made for the performance of, as the case may be, the work of a post on full-time basis or 
in addition to the work of a post the relevant officer already holds.
 123. An officer holding an acting appointment shall not be entitled to the salary of the post to which he has been appointed 
on any basis whether temporary or permanent. 
Appointment to Attend to the Duties of a Post 
 124. Where no officer of the Provincial Public Service qualified for appointment in terms of Section 120 above to act in a 
vacant post, the most suitable officer of the Provincial Public Service may be appointed to attend to the duties of the 
post by the Appointing Authority. 
 125. Any allowance and privilege attached to a particular post may be enjoyed by an officer of the Provincial Public Service 
acting or attending to the duties in such post during the period of acting or the period of attending to the duties of the 
post. He shall have no claim for such allowance or privilege when the acting appointment or period of attending to 
the duties is terminated. 

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
18A
 126. An officer in the public service can be appointed to attend to the duties of a particular post only if that post is either 
a superior post or comparable post to the post presently held by that officer. 
General Conditions Affecting Appointment to Act in a Post or Attend to the Duties of a Post 
 127. Only an officer of a service specified in the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment relevant for the said position 
can be appointed to act or attend to the duties of a particular post and an officer of another service should not be 
appointed for the same. 
 128. Any appointment to act or attend to the duties of a post shall be limited to a maximum period of one year. The 
Appointing Authority shall take actions to permanently appoint a suitable officer for that position prior to end of that 
period.
  Nevertheless, the Provincial Council Public Service Commission has the power to extend an appointment to act or 
attend to the duties  beyond one year. 
 129. it is the responsibility of the Head of the institution or Head of the department or the Administrative Authority to 
provide him with the necessary space to perform the duties of that position, in the event that a permanent officer has 
been appointed by the Appointing Authority for a position that an appointment to act or attend to the duties had been 
made . When a permanent appointment is made by the Appointing Authority, the appointment made to act or attend 
to the duties of the said position will inevitably be cancelled. 
 130. When a selection is made for appointment to a post no Provincial Public Service Officer shall be awarded special 
entitlement, special advantage under Service minute or Scheme of recruitment or additional marks solely on the 
basis of his having acted or attended duties in that particular post. 
CHAPTER VIII  
Efficiency Bar 
General 
 131. An officer of the Western Provincial Public Service shall fulfill the requirements of the Efficiency Bars prescribed by 
the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment for confirmation of the appointment or promotion to a higher post 
or grade in the respective service or to pass over a specific salary step. 
 132. The Efficiency Bar Examination shall be conducted by the competent authority as prescribed in the recruitment 
procedure in the Service minute.
 133. In cases where the authority to conduct the Efficiency Bar Examinations is not specified in the Service Minute or the 
recruitment procedure, the said Efficiency Bar Examinations  shall be conducted by the Appointing Authority or by 
an officer or institution nominated by the Appointing Authority.
 134. An official of the Western Province Public Service, after meeting the qualifications required to pass the Efficiency 
Bar, a letter stating that he must pass the Efficiency Bar must be issued by the Appointing Authority to that officer 
without delay in the form mentioned in the appendix under these rules. The Competent Authority should act to attach 
a photocopy of the said letter to the relevant form to approve the next pay increment of that officer.

<!-- page 19 -->

19A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 135. The date on which an official has passed the prescribed examination for the functions of being confirmed or promoted 
in the service of a permanent post or passing an Efficiency Bar Examination . However, if the exam is not held on the 
scheduled date for any reason, the Provincial Council Public Service Commission must decide the effective date of 
passing the exam taking into account the reasons for the delay in conducting the exam.
 136. The effective date on which an officer passes the Efficiency Bar Examination shall be the date of commencement of 
the test on which he fulfills the Efficiency Bar Examination requirement.
 137. If any officer is required to possess a post-graduate degree or diploma or similar qualification as a requirement for 
completing the Efficiency Bar Examination, the date of declaration of validity of said certificates shall be deemed 
to be the date on which the officer completed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination requirement. However, if the 
date of declaration of validity of said certificates is a date before the appointment of the official, then the said official 
can be exempted from the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination. 
Delay in Passing Efficiency Bar Examination 
 138. Where a Public Service Official has failed to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination on the prescribed date, the Appointing 
Authority or the Administrative Authority or the Head of the department or the Head of the institution, as the case may 
be, shall act to suspend his increment with effect from that date, and shall take measures to formally inform the said 
officer. A copy of the letter notifying the officer should also be sent to the Appointing Authority and the Administrative 
Authority when the salary increment is delayed by the concerned head of department or head of the institution.
 139. An officer of Public Service who could not complete the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date due to any special 
reason beyond his control can only be granted an extension of time to pass the examination only with the approval 
of the Provincial council Public Service commission or an Authority delegated with such powers. After passing the 
prescribed Efficiency Bar Examination, before one year has passed, the officer shall submit a request for extension 
of the said periods in writing to the Provincial council Public Service commission or the delegated authority in the 
prescribed form.
 140. An officer of Public Service in the Western Provincial Public Service can be allowed to get his salary increments 
during such an extended period of time. Such extended period shall not affect the seniority or any promotion of the 
officer.
 141. If an officer fails to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination  prescribed for him during the extended period referred to 
in section 139, the increment due to him at the end of the said extended period shall be deferred by a period equal to 
the time elapsed in excess of the extended period for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination. 
Departmental Examinations
 142. In order that the departmental examination is applicable to a particular post, it should be mentioned in the relevant 
Service minute or recruitment procedure relating to that post.
 143. A method or system of methods should be prepared for each Departmental Examination prescribed for confirmation 
and promotion. it is the responsibility of the Western Provincial Public Service commission to ensure that the method 
or system of methods is prepared and that the examinations are held on the scheduled dates.
 144. The Appointing Authority must arrange to formally inform the relevant officers of the date of the Departmental 
Examination at least three weeks before the last date of accepting applications.
 

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
20A
CHAPTER IX
Seniority
Seniority Register
 145. it is the responsibility of the appointing authority of the respective position to prepare and update the seniority register 
for each position in the Western Provincial Public Service.
 146. The Appointing Authority should act to publish the updated seniority list on 01st January and 01st July every year.
Determination of Seniority
 147. The seniority of officials working in a class or grade belonging to a certain service or position in the Western Provincial 
Public Service should be determined on the basis of the date on which each official was appointed to that class or 
grade in that service or position, and those employed in similar positions in a department or institution, the seniority 
of the officers should be determined on the basis of the date on which the respective officers assumed duty in that 
department or institution.
 148. When more than one provincial public service officer has assumed duties on one day, the cumulative marks obtained 
in all the tests conducted in accordance with the recruitment procedure of the relevant Service minute for the selection 
of those officers shall be aligned in order of merit and the seniority shall be concluded accordingly. In the event that 
there are a number of officials holding the same number of marks, all of them should be treated as officials of the 
Western Province Public Service having equal seniority.
 149. The seniority of an officer in the grade or class to which he belongs can be changed only in the following cases.
 i. Failure to pass an Efficiency Bar Examination   on the due date;
 ii. When his period of probation is extended as mentioned under these Rules of Procedure;
 iii. When an order has been made to downgrade seniority as a disciplinary penalty;
 150. When an officer is transferred to the post he held earlier, his seniority in that post or grade should be determined 
according to the following terms.
 i. As a disciplinary measure, when an official is demoted from seniority or official status and transferred to the 
lower rank or position, he previously held, his seniority in that lower rank or position to which he is transferred 
should be deduced according to the order of the disciplinary authority.
 ii. When an officer is reverted to the post or grade previously held by reason of cancellation or overstaffing  in 
such post or with the approval of the appointing authority concerned, the Provincial Public Service commission 
in that post or grade or his seniority on the basis of his total period of service in that post or grade. it should 
also be concluded with the approval of the council. Accordingly, he will be junior to all the officers who have 
a length of service equal to or greater than his length of service in that post or grade. if he has not passed an 
Efficiency Bar Examination, he should not get seniority higher than that of an officer who has passed the said 
examination and been promoted.
 iii. When an officer is transferred to his previous position on his request and with the approval of the concerned 
appointing authority, it shall be considered as a fresh appointment and his seniority shall be concluded according 
to the date of his transfer to the previous position. if, however, he is placed in a step higher than the initial step 
of the salary scale, having considered the time he has served in that post at the time of vacating the said post 
and the time taken by an officer appointed to the initial step of that salary scale to reach the above-mentioned 
higher step and he shall be paid according to the lesser of the time between those time periods and his seniority 
shall be determined with the approval of the Provincial Public Service commission.

<!-- page 21 -->

21A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 iV . If an official temporarily released on leave without pay for a position outside the Western Provincial Public 
Service has passed the prescribed Efficiency Bar Examinations, and if the leave without pay given to him is 
considered to have been given on the basis of government policy for the purposes of the minutes on Pensions, 
he will remain in his position or grade without prejudice to his seniority.
 V.  for the purposes of Section 10(1) of the minutes on Pensions, leave without pay is not granted or is deemed not 
to have been granted on matters of Government policy, the period during which the officer was on temporary 
release shall not be counted  for seniority and shall be temporarily released. On the date of reverting to his 
previous post, he shall be junior to the officers who have served in that post or grade a period longer than the 
total period he has served in his post or grade by the time he was temporarily released. 
 Vi. Whenever an officer is appointed to a new position in the Western Provincial Public Service and is formally 
transferred or transferred to his previous position by the appointing authority during the relevant training period 
or probationary period or on any other non-disciplinary reason or in determining the seniority of his previous 
position, the period during which the said officer in the public service served in the post subsequently held shall 
be considered as part of his service.
 151. An official who has been permanently released from the Western Provincial Public Service will not be entitled to 
return to his previous position or service.
 i.  However, within one year from the date of release, the Western Provincial council Public Service commission 
can act to consider a request made by an official to return to his previous position or grade or vice versa only 
on the following points.  
 i.  Health reasons about himself
 ii.  Legal matters
 iii.  Policy decisions taken by the government
 II.  Notwithstanding any other provision contained in these procedural rules, the reverting of an officer to that post 
shall be treated for all functions as a fresh appointment outside the recruitment procedure and his seniority shall 
be determined from the date of his reverting to that post. However, this officer should have more seniority than 
any other officer appointed on the same date as that of his return to the post.
 152. The seniority of an officer on redeployment shall be determined in accordance with the following terms.
 I.  When a retired officer is re-employed to the same post or grade he held at the time of retirement, his seniority 
shall be determined by the length of time he has served in that post or grade up to the date of his retirement.
 II.  When an officer is re-employed in a post or grade other than the post or grade he held at the time of retirement, 
his seniority shall be determined from the date of his re-appointment.
 III.  When an officer who has been terminated in previous service for reasons such as resignation or vacation of 
post or unsatisfactory work and conduct is reinstated, he is not in a position to claim any right to seniority on 
the basis of his previous service. it shall be decided bases on the date of his reinstatement in service. 

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
22A
CHAPTER X
Releasing of an Officer in Public Service
Releasing for Appointment to another Post in the Provincial Public Service
 153. Any officer holding a position in the Western Province Public Service intends to get an appointment for another 
position in the Public Service should be formally released from the position he holds.
 154. The request for such releasing shall be submitted through the Head of department or Head of institution to the 
Appointing Authority.
 155. The appointing authority shall not refuse the request made by an officer for releasement except in the following cases.
 i. When the officer is under a bond to serve in that post or department;
 ii. When he is not under a bond but has been specially trained for the performance of the duties of his position;
 iii. When the work of that department is harmed due to his release to the extent that it cannot be satisfied that his 
service will be received by another position under the government;
 156. When an officer holding a position in the Provincial Council Public Service has received his special training to perform 
the duties of the position held by that officer, he should be released for service in a new position only if the training 
is directly beneficial to the new position being defended.
 157. If an officer holding a position in the Western Provincial Public Service is selected for any other position in the 
Provincial Public Service for which training is required; He should be released for that training.
 158. When an officer so released for training is unable to obtain the relevant appointment after completing the training, 
the said officer shall be reverted to his regular post.
 
 159. If the work of the department is significantly hindered by the release of an officer, the head of the department must 
obtain the approval of the concerned provincial secretary before releasing him or before recommending his release 
to the Appointing Authority.
Releasing to a post outside the Western Provinces Government Service
 160. At the request of a government official or with the consent of such official, on the basis of the need of the government 
or on the need of a provincial council, an official may be temporarily or permanently released from the Provincial 
Public Service by the appointing authority as follows. However, for temporary or permanent release from i to Xii 
below, the officer must be permanently employed.
 i. To another Provincial Public Service; or to public service
 ii. To a position in the Presidential Secretariat/ to a position in the Prime Minister’s Office;
 iii. A position in the staff of the Parliament of Sri Lanka;
 iV . To an approved post in staff of the Parliament of Sri Lanka or a Provincial Council or a People's Representative 
or a Provincial Governor;
 V.  To serve in a volunteer force;
 Vi. To serve in a commission appointed by the President under the commission of inquiry Act or a commission 
established by the constitution or any other law;
 Vii. To a position in a public university recognized by the University Grants commission;
 Viii. To a position in public corporation or statutory board or position;
 iX. To a position in a government project implemented with local or foreign funding;
 X. To a position in a company (having owned by the Government) established under a statute enacted by the 
Western Provincial council, owned by the Government;

<!-- page 23 -->

23A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 Xi. To a position in a company in which the Government owns or controls more than 50% of the shares;
 Xii. To take up employment with an intergovernmental agency such as the United Nations, the World bank and the 
international monetary fund;
 161. Unless otherwise decided as a matter of policy by the Government or the Governor, the appointing authority shall 
not refuse the release of an officer who seeks his future welfare except in the following cases.
 i. When the officer is under a bond to serve in the post or department concerned;
 ii. When he has been specially trained for the duties of his post;
 iii. When his release adversely affects the work of his department;
 iV . When the officer is not confirmed in his post or service;
 V.  When he has not passed the efficiency bar examinations and departmental tests that the officer should have 
passed on the date of his request to be released from the public service of the Western Provincial council public 
service;
 Vi. When disciplinary action has been initiated or is about to be initiated against the officer concerned; (Disciplinary 
action is about to be initiated here means that a preliminary inquiry into the incident has been initiated or an 
excuse has been sought from the officer.)
 Vii. When there is a court action against that officer related to a matter related to the government or the Western 
Provincial council;
 Viii. When the period specified in a legal agreement binding the officer to serve in the Western Provincial Council 
public service or the government for any period has not ended;
 iX. When it is clear that if the officer is released, there will be a problematic situation or difficulty or damage to the 
department or institution in which he is currently employed or to perform or maintain duties;
 X. When the officer has not made the necessary arrangements to pay off the balance of a loan obtained from the 
government, the Western Provincial council, or a Local Authority of Western Province in accordance with the 
relevant regulations and circular instructions or to pay in installments;
 Xi. When the Western Provincial council has not paid any money other than a debt balance due to the government 
from that officer;
 Xii. When working as an officer of the Western Provincial Council public service, he has not been released from the 
future responsibilities related to the concessions or privileges given by another party on a guarantee on behalf 
of the government or the Western Provincial council;
 Xiii. In the event that the relevant official has entered into a guarantee agreement or other such obligation with the 
government or the Western Provincial council, a new guarantor is presented and the government or the Western 
Provincial council has not entered into a guarantee agreement with the new guarantor;
 XiV . When the consent of the Secretary of the Provincial Ministry, to which the department in which the official is 
working, has not been received.
162.  The provisions of the above clause are subject to the following exceptions.
 i. As long as the officer has received special training to perform the duties of the class, grade or position he holds, 
he can be released to serve in a new position only if that training is directly useful for the new position he seeks.
 ii. When the Provincial Council proposed to which an officer is to be released to has given written agreement to 
remit the money to the head of the concerned department on behalf of settling the debt balance due from the 
officer by charging from the officer in installments, the said debt balance will not be an obstacle for releasing 
of the officer. 
 163. Unless otherwise determined as a matter of policy by the Government or the Governor, the periods during which 
an officer of the Western Provincial Council Public Service may be temporarily released from the Provincial Public 
Service by an appointing authority are as follows.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
24A
 i. To a position in a volunteer force or to a position in the staff of the Parliament of Sri Lanka or to a position in 
the Presidential Secretariat or to a position in any other provincial public service, for a period agreed upon by 
both parties;
 ii. To a commission appointed by the President under the commissions of inquiry Act, for a term requested;
 iii. A position in a University of Sri Lanka recognized by the University Grants commission or a position in a 
public corporation or a statutory body of the Provincial Council or a position in a government project or a 
position in a government-owned company or a position in a company in which the government has more than 
50% shareholding and/or control, for a period not exceeding five years;
 iV . For service in a welfare association of State, Provincial Public Service, for a period not exceeding two years;
 V.  for service in a public sector trade union with a registered, active and approved membership of the department 
of Labor, for a period during which an officer holds office in such trade union;
 Vi. Acceptance of employment in an intergovernmental agency such as the United Nations development Program 
and the World Health Organization, with the consent of the Government, as a permanent official for a period 
not exceeding five years;
 164. An officer may be released for a position outside the Western Provincial Council Public Service only with the consent 
of the appointing authority and the consent of any other authority, if any, whose concurrence must be obtained as 
required by law under which the institution was established.
 165. To ensure the pension rights of an officer during the period of temporary release to a post outside the Western Provincial 
Council Public Service, and in the case of total release, to grant the benefits due under the Minutes of Pensions for 
service rendered under the Provincial council Public Service, and for all such releases, the appointing authority’s 
consent is required.
 166. When an official of the Provincial Public Service applies for release on his own desire and on the requirement of the 
government, the request related to such release shall be submitted through the secretary of the provincial ministry 
through the chief Secretary to the Appointing Authority.
 167. An officer with less than three years of service remaining before attaining the age of compulsory retirement shall not 
be temporarily or permanently released for service in a post outside the Provincial Public Service at the request of 
such officer, except in the following cases.
 i. When there is no other suitable official who can be appointed to that position in the service of the concerned 
institution;
 ii. When it is found after posting the recruitment announcement related to the position that there is no suitable 
person who can be recruited for the post in the concerned institution.
 168. If an officer is released on a temporary basis, such release can be made initially for a period of 2 years and thereafter 
for a maximum period of 5 years with extensions of one year each thereafter.
 169. If an officer is temporarily released to a position outside the Provincial Public Service on government requirement or 
for reasons of Government policy, he shall be treated as if he had taken leave without pay for reasons of Government 
policy for the purposes of Section 10(1) of the minute of Pensions. A period so released shall be treated as a period 
of active service for any work.
 170. The pension contribution in respect of a public service official on temporary release to a post outside the Provincial 
Public Service shall be 25% of his consolidated pay. This fact shall apply to all cases of temporary release, irrespective 
of the work for which they are intended, where pension contributions are stipulated.

<!-- page 25 -->

25A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 171. Unless otherwise decided by the Government or the Governor as a matter of policy, when an officer is released at his 
request, he shall be granted leave without pay and shall not be entitled to the benefits mentioned under section 10(1) 
of the minutes on Pension. Any promotion related to any vacancy or promotion from grade to grade that may arise 
during the period of his release shall not be considered for him.
 172. The terms and conditions of permanent release of an official to serve in a position outside the Provincial Public Service 
shall be governed by the constitution under which the institution was established and the relevant provisions of the 
minutes on Pension.
 173. An officer intending to be a member of the V olunteer Force or V olunteer Sub-Service, or such person who is a member 
of such force or Sub-Service, shall be discharged on a written document of the commander-in-chief concerned or 
of any officer duly authorized in his place to issue such and all proper facilities shall be provided in order to be able 
to receive and perform the military training and military service prescribed to be received and performed by the said 
officer.
 174. The release of an officer who has been temporarily released to a position outside the Western Provincial Public Service 
shall terminate in any of the following cases. in such a case it is the responsibility of the appointing authority to recall 
the officer to his previous service or post.
 i. Expiration of Release Period;
 ii. Reporting by the head of the concerned institution that the institution to which the officer was released no longer 
requires his services;
 iii. Closure of the institution to which the officer was released.
 175. However, the Governor has the power to act irrespective of the conditions and restrictions mentioned under these 
rules in respect of an officer who is released to a post in the manner mentioned under these rules.
 176. reinstatement to previously held position
 i. An officer who has resigned his post to accept another post in or outside the Provincial Public Service or who 
has been permanently discharged shall not be entitled to return to his previous post subject to the following 
exceptions.
 ii. However, if such an officer is permitted to return to the post he previously held, such appointment to that post 
shall be treated as a fresh appointment outside the recruitment procedure for all functions and in all such cases 
the appointing authority shall obtain the approval of the Governor.
 177. When the officer is allowed to return to the same post held earlier, his seniority shall be determined in the manner 
mentioned in section 150 under these rules.
CHAPTER XI
Re-employment or Re-appointment of a Person Retired from Public Service or Provincial Public Service in a Post 
of Provincial Public Service on Contract Basis
 178.  The power to re-employ a person who has retired from the Provincial Public Service to a position in the Provincial 
Public Service is vested only in the Governor.
 179. A retired person from the Provincial Government service can be re-employed only on contract basis. Such appointment 
shall be limited to a period of one year. However, this should be implemented subject to the policy decisions taken 
by the Government and the Governor from time to time.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
26A
 180. The following persons are not eligible to be re-employed on contract in a post in the Provincial Public Service.
 i. A person retired on his voluntary consent to retire in accordance with a policy decision of the Government;
 ii. A person against whom a disciplinary action has been initiated within the period of three years immediately 
preceding retirement, for an offence specified under Procedural Rules of Western Provincial Public Service or 
First Schedule of volume II in the Establishments Code, and has been subjected to a disciplinary punishment;
 iii. A person who has been sent on retirement under section 12 of the minutes on Pension;
 iV . A person ineligible for appointment to the Provincial Public Service referred to in chapter V;
 V.  A person who is sent on compulsory retirement as an alternative to dismissal from service
 181. The letter of appointment in the case of reinstatement of a person retired from public service shall be issued in the 
manner mentioned in the Appendix under these rules.
Re-employment of a Person Retired on Medical Grounds
 182. The Provincial council Public Service commission may re-employ a person retired from public service on medical 
grounds to fill a vacancy in the class or grade or post from which he retired only if he fulfills all the following 
requirements.
 i. Not becoming disqualified under II or IV of Article 180;
 ii. Having been certified by a duly constituted Government Medical Board that his physical and mental health is 
fit to satisfactorily perform the duties of the post concerned;
 iii. Not having reached the optional age of retirement by the date of re-enlistment; At least one year has passed 
from the date of retirement.
 183. When a person retired on medical grounds is re-employed, his pension shall be restored and he shall be placed in 
the pay step to which he was entitled at the time of retirement or, if there has been a revision of pay, in the relevant 
corresponding pay step.
 184.  An appointment letter specifying the terms and conditions under which the re-employment or appointment will be 
made should be issued to the person to be re-employed or appointed.
CHAPTER   XII
Termination of Appointment and Resignation from Provincial Council Public Service
Termination of Appointment
 185. The Appointing Authority has the power to terminate the appointment of a substitute employee or a casual officer or 
a temporary officer without prior notice or assigning reasons. However, the reasons on which the decision was taken 
must be recorded in the relevant file by the Appointing Authority.
 186.  The Appointing Authority may, in accordance with the provisions in Chapter VI, terminate the service of an officer 
of Public Service on probation during his probationary period.

<!-- page 27 -->

27A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 Resignation 
 187.  Under no circumstances can a Provincial Public Service Officer resign from service with retrospective effect.
 188.  Where a letter of resignation is received from an officer Public Service in terms of Chapter IV by a Head of the 
Department he shall forthwith get the following matters clarified immediately.
 i. That there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against the officer nor is there a prima facie case indicating 
immediate initiation of such proceedings nor any action is intended to be taken against the said officer,
 ii. That there is no agreement or bond binding the officer for a specified period of service to the government,
 iii. That there is no sum of money whatsoever due to the government, the Western Provincial council from the 
officer,
 iV . That he has absolved the government or the Western Provincial council of any pending responsibilities as 
regards relief and privileges provided to him by a third party on surety furnished by the government when he 
was working as an officer of Provincial Council,
 V.  That the officer has duly returned all property belonging to the Western Provincial Council in his charge,
 Vi. That there are no judicial proceedings pending against the officer, either civil or criminal in nature, regarding 
any matter connected with the government or Western Provincial Public Service,
 Vii. That he has provided another surety for any surety agreement he has entered into with the government or the 
Western Provincial council and that the other surety has entered into a new surety agreement with the government 
or the Western Provincial council.
 Viii. That the said resignation has been submitted one calendar month in advance or one month's salary has been 
paid back
 189.   Where it appears to the Head of Department that the resignation of the Provincial Public Service Officer cannot be 
accepted due to any of the reasons mentioned in Section 188 above, a full report together with certified copies of 
supporting documents shall be sent forthwith by the Head of department to the Appointing Authority with the letter 
of resignation of the officer.
 190.  Where the Head of Department is satisfied that no impediment is caused by any matter mentioned in sections above 
for the acceptance of the resignation, he shall forward his report and recommendations together with the resignation 
letter to the Appointing Authority without delay.
 191.  Where a Public Officer intends to resign from his post according to the provisions of section 194 below, he shall be 
informed in writing within 7 working days by the Head of department or the Head of institution that he will forfeit 
all claims to a pension, gratuity and all the benefits arising from his service prior to resignation .
 192.  Head of Department or Head of Institution shall obtain a written statement from the officer stating that he has been 
informed of the matters mentioned in section 191 above.
 193.  It shall be informed in writing to the officer that if the resignation is accepted any application to withdraw it later will 
not be considered.
 194.  Where after consideration of the report and recommendation of the Head of department, the Appointing Authority is 
satisfied that the resignation could be accepted he shall inform the relevant Officer through the Head of the Department 
in writing that the resignation has been accepted from the date of application for resignation.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
28A
 195.  As per Section 194 above, the letter notified by the Appointing Authority that the resignation has been accepted should 
be communicated to the concerned officer as soon as the Head of the Institution receives it and if he has reported to 
work beyond the date of application for resignation, the resignation shall take effect from the day following the date 
on which the officer last reported for duty. In such cases, it is the responsibility of the Head of the Institution to obtain 
the approval of the Appointing Authority for the revised date.
 196.  Where the Appointing Authority decides that the resignation cannot be accepted, he shall communicate such fact to 
the officer through the Head of Department together with reasons that led to such a decision.
 197.  An officer who received a notification stating that his resignation will not be accepted according to above Section 
196 shall serve further in the Public Service where such officer fails to report for duty, the officer shall be deemed to 
have vacated his post on his own accord and further action shall be taken in terms of chapter Xiii.
CHAPTER XIII
Vacation of Post
 198.  Every officer of the Western Provincial Public Service shall compulsorily report for duty on each working day unless 
his leave has been formally approved.
 199.  Where at any time an officer in Provincial Public Service finds it difficult to report for duty, it is his responsibility to 
inform the relevant authority of such absence and get his leave duly approved so that the latter may take alternative 
measures to get the respective work done.
 200.  However, if any officer of the Provincial Public Service is unable to report for duty owing to unavoidable circumstances 
without getting his leave approved, it shall be the responsibility of the officer to inform the Head of Institution of his 
absence within 24 hours of the time of commencement of his duty on that particular day.
 201.  An officer who absents himself from duty without informing his Head of Institution as mentioned above shall be 
deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord. Accordingly, it is the responsibility of the officer's Appointing 
Authority or the Head of the Department or the Head of the Provincial/District/Regional office of the department 
or the Head of the Institution, as the case may be, to send the notice of vacation of post to the officer concerned in 
the form mentioned in the appendix under these rules immediately by registered post. If the vacation of post notice 
is issued by an authority other than the Appointing Authority, he shall send copies of the notice to the Appointing 
Authority and to other relevant authorities.
 202.  No explanation as to not reporting to duty without obtaining leave shall be called from, or charges framed, against 
an officer who is deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord.
 203.  Where the person who vacated post volunteers an explanation in writing to the officer who was the Disciplinary 
Authority during his time in the Provincial Public Service within three months of the date the vacation of post notice 
the Disciplinary Authority shall consider his explanation in terms of the respective disciplinary rules.
 204.  Where it is clear to the Disciplinary Authority from the facts mentioned in the appeal that the officer has not reported 
for duty for acceptable reasons, he may order the reinstatement or re-appointment of the officer in any of the following 
ways.
 i.  With appropriate disciplinary punishments;
 II. Subject to suitable conditions;
 III.  With appropriate disciplinary punishments and subject to appropriate conditions,
 iV .  Without punishments and conditions;

<!-- page 29 -->

29A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 205.  The entire period during which a reinstated or reappointed officer as per Section 204 above was out of service shall 
be considered as a period of no pay and shall not be considered as a period of entitlement for or any promotion or 
calculation of pensionary benefits or for granting of increments or any other benefit. 
 206.  Having considered officer’s explanation, where the Disciplinary Authority is dissatisfied with the matters mentioned 
in the appeal he may refuse such reinstatement.
 207.  The Disciplinary Authority shall record the reasons for his decision in the respective file clearly and accurately in 
detail. Further, he shall formally communicate his decision to the said officer. 
 208.  In respect of an officer aggrieved by the decision of the Disciplinary Authority, he shall appeal as per the Western 
Provincial disciplinary Procedure.
CHAPTER XIV
Retirement
 209.   The retirement of an officer of Western Provincial Public Service is governed by the Public and Judicial Officers 
(retirement) Ordinance, rules made under that Ordinance, Provincial council Act, minutes on Pensions, and by the 
policy decisions taken by the Government.
 210.  Subject to the provisions of the Public and Judicial Officers (Retirement) Ordinance and provisions of the Government, 
the optional age of retirement of an officer of the Provincial Public Service shall be 55 years.
 211.  Subject to Sections 212, 213 and 214 hereof, the officer shall be given the right to retire after a grace period of 03 
months at the discretion of the officer during the period from the age of 55 to the age of compulsory retirement; 
However, if the relevant Appointing Authority decides that the efficiency and service condition of the officer is not 
satisfactory after the age of 57 years or after such age limit as may be approved by the council of ministers, the 
Appointing Authority shall have the power to send the relevant officer on retirement after an adjournment of 06 months 
to enable the officer to file an appeal against the same.
 212.  Where disciplinary proceedings are pending against the officer or such disciplinary proceedings are contemplated the 
retirement of the officer shall be made subject to Section 12 of the Minutes on Pensions. It shall be the duty of the 
Head of the department or Head of institution to bring such matters to the notice of the Appointing Authority, when 
requesting for officers’ retirements.
 213.  Subsequent to approving the retirement of an officer of Provincial Public Service by the Appointing Authority, where 
the officer had committed an offence requiring disciplinary action, and if such matters were brought into the attention 
of the Appointing Authority prior to enforcement of retirement, the Appointing Authority should take action to convert 
such retirement on normal grounds into a retirement subjected to Section 12 of the Minutes of Pension and to issue 
or made to issue a copy of the relevant order to the relevant officer. 
 214.  Where the Appointing Authority has decided to send an officer of Provincial Public Service on retirement from 
Public Service on normal grounds on the basis that there are no disciplinary actions against the officer or there is no 
intention to take disciplinary action against him, subsequent to which however, it was brought into the attention of the 
Appointing Authority after the date of approval of such retirement on normal grounds and before the effective date of 
retirement on normal grounds, that disciplinary action is being taken or is contemplating to be taken against the said 
officer, the Appointing Authority should take action to convert such retirement on normal grounds into a retirement 
subjected to Section 12 of Minutes on Pensions and to issue or made to issue a copy of the relevant order to the said 
officer. 
 215.  In order to pay the pension without difficulty, delay or causing any hardship to an officer of the Western Provincial 
Public Service who had retired, the Administrative Authority or the Head of department or Head of the institution 

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
30A
shall, at least nine months before the optional date of retirement, ensure that the personal file and history sheet of the 
officer is complete, accurate and updated and maintain it in such manner until the officer reaches his date of retirement.
 216.  In the case of an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service retiring from the said Service, the respective 
Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or Head of department or Head of the institution shall forward to 
the director General of Pensions all documents required to pay his pension at least three months before the date of 
the retirement of the officer.
CHAPTER XV
Procedure relating to Promotions
General Procedure
 217.  every promotion in the Western Provincial Public Service shall be made only in accordance with the approved Service 
Minute or Scheme of Recruitment. It shall be the responsibility of Appointing Authority to promote the officers of the 
Provincial Public Service on due time as provided for in the Service minutes or Schemes of recruitment approved 
by the Governor.
 218.  Where an officer has acquired the necessary qualifications, before making a promotion, it shall be the responsibility 
of the Appointing Authority to satisfy himself that a vacancy in the approved cadre exists for the promotion of an 
officer except in the case of grade-to-grade promotions, not requiring vacancies.
 219.  An officer of the Provincial Public Service must earn his promotion by a satisfactory service and fulfillment of all the 
required qualifications prescribed in the Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment.
 I.   Where an officer has not been granted his due annual salary increments for legitimate reason the period during 
which the increment had stand suspended, reduced, stopped or deferred and where an officer had committed a 
punishable offence falling under Schedule I of the Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public Service 
and a period of three years from the date of commitment of the offences and where an officer had committed 
a punishable offence falling under the Schedule II of the Disciplinary Code of the Western Provincial Public 
Service and a period of one year from the date of commitment of the offence, shall be excluded in computing 
his period of satisfactory service.
 II.  Five (05) years from the date of committing the offence for an officer who has been punished for an offense 
specified in the Rules on Disciplinary Procedure of the Western Province Public Service or the First Schedule 
on Offences in Chapter XLVIII of the Establishments Code, Two (02) years from the date of committing the 
offence for an officer who has been punished for an offense specified in the Rules on Disciplinary Procedure of 
the Western Province Public Service or the Second Schedule on Offences in Chapter XLVIII of the Establishments 
Code, one year for an officer who has received disciplinary punishment under Rules of Disciplinary Procedure of 
the Western Provincial Public Service or the Summary disciplinary Procedure mentioned under chapter XLViii  
of the Establishments Code should have elapsed from the date of commission of the said offence until he/she 
shall be considered as an eligible officer to be recruited under the limited and merit (service experience) streams 
or grade-promotions given on the basis of the number of vacancies according to the recruitment procedures and 
service minutes.
 220.  Only the period of active service of the officer in the relevant service, class or grade shall be considered in computing 
the length of service for promotion in public service.
 221.  It shall be the duty of Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority to conduct the required examinations, 
professional  tests, interviews etc. on the due dates in order to provide officers with an opportunity to acquire the 
qualification for promotion.

<!-- page 31 -->

31A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 222.  Notwithstanding the provision mentioned under above rules, in the case of the grade to grade promotion in service 
is made belatedly owing to some unavoidable circumstances and where it appears to the Appointing Authority that 
the officer of the Provincial Public Service is in no way responsible for such delay and on perusal of eligibility it is 
proved that the officer has qualified himself for promotion in all respects, the Appointing Authority shall promote the 
officer with effect from the due date even though the officer may no longer in Provincial Public Service or is retired 
or dead.
 223.   Where an officer has not received a promotion due under any promotion procedure or service minute without his 
control, the fact that the relevant promotion procedure or the service minute has been changed or amended is not a 
reason for the officer to lose the relevant promotion, while in such a case, the Appointing Authority should act to give 
the relevant promotion on the approval of the Governor on the due date after explaining the detailed facts about it.
 224.  Where marks are to be allocated for examinations, professional tests and eligibility- evaluation interviews for promotion 
held in accordance with the approved Service minute or the Scheme of recruitment such marking scheme shall be 
included in the advertisement calling for applications for promotions or informed prior to holding interviews.
 225.  Where an internal promotion to a particular post on the basis of seniority and merit is being made, the date of promotion 
to that post shall be clearly mentioned in the notice inviting applications for the relevant promotion. Unless otherwise 
provided for in the relevant service minute or the promotion or recruitment procedure, the relevant date of promotion 
shall be determined by taking the following factors into consideration.
 I.  Having financial resources to fill the vacancy;
 II.  Need to fill the vacancy;
 iii.  Need to minimize arrears.
  When the date of promotion mentioned in the relevant advertisement and the final date of acceptance of applications 
are two different dates, the applicants should have fulfilled the prescribed qualifications by the date of promotion and 
the criteria on their seniority and merit should be evaluated in the relevant eligibility evaluation interviews based 
on the date of promotions.
 226.  The provisions stated in chapter Vii of these Procedural rules, i.e., “Procedure to be followed in recruitments and 
Appointments” shall apply, mutatis mutandis, with regard to promotions.
CHAPTER  XVI
Transfers
General
 227.  Every officer of the Provincial Public Service is subject to transfer.
 228.  Transfers should not be done as a matter of routine. A transfer shall be implemented only on any matter mentioned 
in Section 229 under these rules.
 229.  Transfers are fourfold as indicated below:
 (i)  Transfers done annually;
 (ii)  Transfers done on exigencies of service;
 (iii)  Transfers done on disciplinary grounds;
 (iv)  Non-annual transfers on requests made by officers.
 230.  An officer of the Provincial Public Service is transferred to achieve, as the case may be, all or several or any one of 
the following objectives:

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
32A
 i.  fill a vacancy in an institution
 ii.  meet the administrative needs of an institution
 iii.  Promote the efficiency and productivity of the institution
 iv.  meet the needs of a disciplinary process
 v.  implement a disciplinary order
 vi.  Provide the officer with an opportunity to gain experience in a wider field
 vii.  Provide the officer with an opportunity for professional development and improvement of his skills
 viii.  Provide relief from personal difficulties experienced by the officer.
 231.  It is the duty of the Head of Institution, Head of Department/Secretary of the Ministry to formally release an officer 
who has received a transfer order at the present place of work to enable him to report for duty at his new place of 
work with effect from the effective date.
Annual Transfers
 232.  An internal attachment within a ministry or department or an institution of the Provincial council, which is not a 
change in the place of work, does not fall within the meaning of annual transfer.
 233.  Annual Transfer Committees
 i.  The Authority with delegated Power shall before 01
st  of June constitute Annual Transfer committees within 
departments and ministries to seek proposals on annual transfers.
 ii .  The Authority with delegated power shall set up separate annual transfer committees for each service or category 
of officers of the Provincial Public Service, in a department or ministry when the number of such officers in 
each service or category exceeds 50 in number. However, an Authority with Delegated power may under special 
circumstances and at his discretion appoint an annual transfer committee in a ministry or department even where 
the number of officers is less than 50 in number.
 iii.  The composition of an Annual Transfer committee of a ministry or department shall be as follows.
 i. A Deputy Head or in the absence of such a post, the officer next in seniority of the relevant ministry or 
department
 ii. A senior officer of the Provincial Public Service in charge of establishment matters of the relevant ministry 
or department
 iii. A representative from:
 a)  each trade union relating to the said department or service having a membership of 15% or more 
of the total number of officers employed in the department or service or,
 b)  each trade union from which an officer has been released for full-time trade union work 
 IV .  A Transfer Committee should be established under the Chief Secretary for the transfer of officers so as to be 
given opportunities to serve in preferred positions between provincial ministries and offices.
 V .  The following instances shall not come within the scope of an Annual Transfer committee:–
 i.  internal attachment in a government institution not involving change in station
 ii.  Transfers on a disciplinary order or as required by a disciplinary process
 iii.  Transfers on exigencies of service
 iv.  Non-annual transfers on requests made by officers of the Provincial Public Service
 234.  Procedures on Annual Transfers
 i .   The Authority with delegated Power shall prepare annual transfer policies and procedures of the said ministry or 
department in accordance with the relevant policies and special requirements of the relevant provincial ministry 
or department and considering the conditions mentioned in the service minutes or recruitment procedures 

<!-- page 33 -->

33A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
belonging to the relevant services and posts and submit to the Governor for approval with the recommendation 
of the Provincial Public Service commission.
 ii.   Annual transfers should be done as per the approved Transfer Procedure. 
 iii.  When preparing the Annual Transfer Procedure, the Authority with delegated power shall take the following 
matters into consideration. 
 a) categorizing workplaces into unfavorable, favorable, and highly favorable categories based on geographic 
location, approved financial benefits, other benefits and privileges, and number of transfer requests received;
 b) The minimum service period allowed for  an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service in any post 
to be eligible to apply for annual transfer;
 c) The maximum period allowed to an officer of the Western Province Civil Service to serve in any post;
 d) Matters that caused an officer of the Western Provincial Public Service for submitting an application for 
annual transfers;
 e) Providing the opportunity to the Provincial Public Service officer to develop his knowledge and skills in 
a wider field;
 f) Preventing attempts taken by officers to remain in the same area for a long period of time by transferring 
between workplaces located in the same geographical area;
 IV .  All relevant officers shall be notified of the Transfer Procedure approved by the Provincial Public Service 
commission and the amendments made by the commission later to the said Transfer Procedure.
 235.  Calling of Applications for Annual Transfers
 i.  The Authority with delegated power may before 30th of June shall issue the notice calling for applications 
for annual transfers from officers of the Western Provincial Public Service. He should in the notice state that 
applications for annual transfers should be submitted to him on or before 31st of July.
 ii.  The Authority with delegated Power should take steps to hand over the annual transfer applications received 
by him to the relevant annual transfer committee before 10th of August.
 iii.  The Annual Transfer committee shall consider only the applications submitted in accordance with the relevant 
transfer procedure.
 236.  Issuing the Notice on Proposed Annual Transfers
 i .  in making its recommendations The Annual Transfer committee shall take into consideration the Annual Transfer 
Procedure approved by the Governor,  provisions in this chapter  and government policy on transfers .
 ii.  An Annual Transfer committee may submit its recommendations in writing to the Authority with delegated 
Power before the 31st of August of every year. it shall be the duty of each Annual Transfer committee to record 
properly the reasons for its recommendations.
 iii.  The Authority with delegated Power may take action to approve and issue the notice on the proposed annual 
transfers prior to 15th of September.
 iV .  The notice shall contain the last date on or before which any representation should be made to the Authority 
with Delegated Power by any officer of the Provincial Public Service who is aggrieved by the proposed transfer. 
Provided however, the maximum period for such representation shall not exceed 14 days inclusive of non-
working days.
 V .  A Public Officer who wishes to make representations regarding the proposed annual transfer relating to him 
should make such representations to the Authority with delegated Power through Head of the department or 
Head of the institution as the case may be, to reach him on or before the date given in the said notice as per 
Appendix 15.
 VI.  The officer is permitted to submit a copy of his representations directly to the Authority with Delegated Power, 
if he so desires. it shall be the responsibility of the relevant Head of department or the Head of institution, as 
the case may be, to refer such written representations submitted to him by the officers concerned to the Authority 
with delegated Power to reach him on or before the prescribed date.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
34A
 237.  Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee
 i .  The Authority with delegated Power shall appoint an Annual Transfer Proposals r eview c ommittee before 15th 
of September to review the annual transfer proposals based on representations made in terms of sub section V 
of section 236 above.
 II.  The Annual Transfer Proposal Review Committee shall consist of an officer who has served in an Annual 
Transfer Committee, an executive level officer nominated by the Head of Department and executive level 
officers nominated by the Authority with Delegated Power. However, the maximum number of members shall 
not exceed five.
 iii.  The Annual Transfer Proposals review committee may take steps to submit its written recommendations on 
the proposed annual transfers to the Authority with delegated Power on or before 15th of October. it shall be 
the responsibility of the Annual Transfer Proposals review committee to indicate in their report the reasons 
for its recommendations.
 iV .  They shall take into account the Annual Transfer Procedure approved by the Governor, the provisions of this 
chapter and the policies of the Government in making their recommendations in accordance with sub-section 
iii above.
 V .  A representation made under sub-section V of section 236 above shall only be considered to the effect that the 
proposed transfer is contrary to the Transfer Procedure of the Transfer board or that the relevant circumstances 
have changed in such a way as to justify modification of the original transfer order or only if facts are presented 
that personal difficulties arise due to the transfer of the concerned places, whether of a special nature or very 
serious nature.
 238.  Issuing Annual Transfer Orders
 i.  Authority with delegated Power shall issue annual transfer orders taking into consideration the proposals of the 
Annual Transfer committee and the recommendations of the Annual Transfer Proposals review committee.
 II.  All annual transfers may be made effective from 01st of January. It shall be the responsibility of the Authority 
with Delegated Power to issue the annual transfer orders at least two months before the effective date of annual 
transfers, i.e. before 01st of November.
 239.  Procedure on Appeals to the Provincial Council Public Service Commission against Annual Transfers
 i. Where an appeal is made to the Provincial Public Service Commission by any officer aggrieved by an order 
passed by the delegating Authority in respect of an annual transfer, the appeal shall be submitted along with 
certified copies of all relevant supporting documents. 
 ii. An officer shall submit an appeal to the Provincial Council Public Service Commission only through the Head of 
institution, the Head of the department, the Secretary of the Provincial ministry and Authority with delegated 
Power.
 iii. However, the officer, if he so desires, may submit an advance copy of the appeal directly to the Provincial Public 
Service commission.
 iV . An appeal against an order relating to an annual transfer shall be made within 14 days of the receipt of the transfer 
order. Appeals which are not received within the stipulated time shall be rejected by the Western Provincial 
Public Service commission.
 V.  The Head of institution, Head of department, the Secretary to the ministry and Authority with delegated 
Power shall ensure that an appeal handed over by an officer for transmission to the Provincial Public Service 
Commission is delivered to the Commission on or before 15th of November together with all relevant files, 
documents and reports and respective observations and recommendations regarding the said appeal. 
 Vi. Provincial Public Service commission shall take action to make a decision within 15 days of the receipt of such 
appeal. 

<!-- page 35 -->

35A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 240.  Implementation of Annual Transfer Orders. 
 i. The relevant Secretary to the Provincial ministry or the Head of the department or the Head of the institution 
shall release an officer of the Provincial Public Service, who is on transfer  well in time from his present 
service station so that he may assume duties at his new service station on the due date. Likewise, it shall be the 
responsibility of the officer who is on transfer to report to the duty at the new service station on the due date as 
prescribed.
 ii. it shall be the responsibility of the relevant disciplinary Authority to take disciplinary actions against the 
authorities who do not take actions to formally release the officers, who are on annual transfers, from the current 
service staition to assume duties in the new service station on the due date. 
 iii. Secretary to the Provincial ministry or Head of the department or Head of the institution shall take actions to 
make temporary arrangements internally to cover the duties of an officer who is on transfer, without waiting 
for the arrival of his successor to release him.  
 iV . Secretary to the Provincial ministry or Head of the department or Head of the institution shall, make arrangements 
to take charge of office files,documents, other properties  of the provincial council, keys, passwords and official 
identity card etc. well in time from the custody of the officer on transfer. Likewise, it shall be the responsibility 
of the officer on transfer to make arrangements, in consultation with his superiors, to duly hand over such 
materials that are in his custody.  
 V.  An officer who does not report for duty at his new station duly despite the fact that he had been released from 
his former staton shall be deemed as having vacated his post on his own accord and it shall be the responsibility 
of the Secretary to the Provincial ministry or the Head of the department or the Head of the institution of his 
new station to take actions in terms of chapter Xiii of the Procedural rules. 
 Vi. The Secretary to the Provincial ministry or the Head of the department or the Head of the institution shall take 
actions to issue a letter of release from the current service station including all the necessary information about 
the officer on transfer, enabling the Head of the new station to take actions in terms of sub-section (V) above 
mentioned. A copy should be forwarded to the Head of the new station. 
Transfers on Requirement on Service 
 241.  An officer of Provincial Public Service may be transferred on requirements on service by the Appointing Authority 
or Authority with delegated power for anyone of the following reasons. 
 i. Where the service of an officer is no longer needed at his present station; 
 ii. Where an officer is needed for service in another station or that particular officer is needed; 
 iii. Where it is found, due to administrative reasons that the retention of an officer in the current station is not 
condusive. 
 242. Before an officer of the Provincial Public Service is transferred on requirements of service, the Appointing Authority 
or Authority with delegated power shall personally satisfy himself that a need mentioned in the above Section 241 
has actually arisen and aforementioned transfer can not be delayed till the next annual transfers. 
 243. Depending on requirements of service, an officer of Provincial Public Service may be transferred by an Authority 
with delegated power at short notice. 
 244. The Authority with the delegated power shall take actions to record in the relevant file clearly all the factors based to 
the transfer of an officer of Provincial Public Service depending on requirements of service. 

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
36A
 245. further, the Authority with delegated power shall clearly mention the aforementioned reasons in the letter of transfer 
issued to the relevant officer of Provincial Public Service. 
Transfers on Disciplinary Grounds 
 246. Disciplinary Authority or the Authority with delegated power may transfer an officer of Provincial Public Service on 
disciplinary grounds, in the following instances, even without prior notice.  
 i. Where a disciplinary order has been made with a transfer as punishment resulting from a formal disciplinary 
inquiry against the relevant officer of the Provincial Public Service. 
 ii. Eventhough the findings of the preliminary investigation do not warrant the interdiction of an officer and where 
the said officer should not be allowed to serve in the aforementioned station any longer;  
 iii. Where it is found on the matters revealed either before the beginning or in the course of the preliminary 
investigation or based on the circumstances arisen that retention of an officer in his post or service station may 
obstruct the conduct of the preliminary investigation. 
 247. Disciplinary Authority or the Authority with delegated power shall state in the transfer letter issued to the officer 
of Provincial Public Service who is transferred as per Section 246, under which sub- section of aforementioned 
Section 246 he is subjected to transfer.   The reasons on which the transfer is based should be given in writing to the 
aforementioned officer if so requested.  
 248. in an event where it is established at the end of a preliminary investigation that there is no basis as to framing a 
charge sheet against the relevant officer or where he is acquitted from all the charges following a formal disciplinary 
investigation the relevant officer may submit a request to his Disciplinary Authority or Authority delegated with 
powers regarding a transfer made under ii and iii of Section 246 above. 
 249. A disciplinaty Authority or Authority with delegated power upon receiving a request as per Section 248 above, shall 
inform the relevant officer within 02 months of receipt of the decision made regarding the aforementioned request 
after having considered the facts mentioned in iii of Section 241 above and the facts mentioned in the aforementioned 
request.  
Procedure to be Followed Regarding the Appeals Made to the Appellate Authority Against Transfer Orders Made on 
Requirements of Services and Disciplinary Grounds. 
 250. An officer who is aggrieved by a transfer order made by an Authority with delegated power on the requirements of 
services or disciplinary grounds may appeal to the Public Service commission against aforementioned decision in 
terms of chapter XVi of these rules.  
Non-annual Transfers on Requests Made by the Officers of the Provincial Council Public Service 
 251. Authority with delegated power may consider a special request for transfer made by an officer on the following 
grounds which were not taken into consideration under annual transfers.  
 i. On medical grounds 
 ii. On personal problems faced with in consequence of unforeseen circumstances 
 iii. Requests made to meet the requirements mentioned in the Officer’s Service Minutes and Schemes of Recruitment.  
 252. Authority with delegated powers on transfers shall make every possible effort to fulfill the requests, made under the 
reasons mentioned in Section 251 above, under annual transfers. Authority with delegated power shall, after having 
obtained and confirmed the information that it is not possible to delay the requests made by an officer until the time 
of next annual transfer, consider only such requests under this. 

<!-- page 37 -->

37A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 253. Any transfer made on the requests under Section 251 above shall not adversely affect the annual transfers and it shall 
not prejudice the privileges or entitlements of any officer subject to transfer under annual transfers. 
 254. Any transfer made under Section 251 above shall not affect a transfer granted on an officer on disciplinary grounds. 
Transfers of Trade Union Officers 
 255. Key office bearers of a mother organization of a trade union should be appointed to the service stations where their 
service is required for the work of the union and they are not subjected to the transfers under general Minutes of 
Transfers. 
 256. The Appropriate Authority should determine in consultation with the relevant union regarding to which union and to 
which designations of the union should be given the sponsorship and to which stations they should be assigned. 
 257. An officer who is appointed to a service station under Section 255 above lapses from the rank sponsored or promoted 
to a higher post, class or grade is subjected to transfer under general Minutes. 
 258. At all the times, this sponsorship should be given subject to the requirements of the service and the rules of discipline.  
 259. A union which is entitled to this sponsorship and desiring to enjoy it should submit an application form including the 
below mentioned facts to the appropriate authority. 
 i. Names of the Officers to whom this sponsorship is to be given 
 ii. Service station to which each of the officers should be appointed and the number of members of the union. 
 260. Appropriate Authority in respect of: 
   A respective Head of the Department in which the membership of a union is limited to its officers. 
  Secretary to the Ministry in charge of provincial affairs; in relation to  a union in which the membership is not limited 
to the officers of a department. 
Steps to be taken Following the Implementation of Transfers 
 261. it shall be the responsibility of the Secretary to the Provincial ministry or Head of the department or Head of the 
Institution of the officer on transfer, as the case may be, to duly transmit the following documents to the Head of the 
new station of the officer within two weeks of the transfer of the officer. 
 i. Updated personal file with the updated History Sheet. 
 ii. Written recommendation in respect of the payment of next salary increment for the period from the date of his 
last increment up to the date of the implementation of his transfer; 
 iii. Performance Appraisal Report of the officer 
 iV . Leave particulars of the officer
 V.  Statement of Holiday Railway Warrants obtained by the officer 
 Vi. Salary particulars of the officer 
 Vii. Credit Balance Statement of the officer 
 Viii. Certificate which shows that Widows’ / Widowers’ and Orphans contributions have been continuously recovered 
from the salary of the relevant offier for the period which he served in his office. 

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
38A
CHAPTER  XVII
Procedure Related to the Appleals against the Decisions on Promotions and Transfers 
 262. (a)  in terms of Section 32(2) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 and    subjected to the provisisons of 
any other written law, powers related to promotion and transfer of the officers of the Western Provincial Public 
Service may be, from time to time, delegated to the Provincial Public Service commission of this province.
  (b) An officer aggrieved by a orderof transferor promotion made under the powers of an authority with delegated 
power under the powers delegated to the Provincial Public Service commission in terms of Section 4 of the 
Provincial councils (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1990 may appeal against the aforementioned order to the 
Provincial Public Service Commssion. Any officer aggrieved by an order of promotion or transfer made by the 
Provincial Public Service commission may appeal to the Governor against such order.
   
 263.   An appeal made against an order of a promotion or a transfer by an officer to the Appellate Authority shall be made in 
accordance with Appendix No. 22. Further, he should submit the certified copies of the relevant documents in support 
of the facts presented by him along with the appeal. 
 264.  A Provincial Public Service Officer shall submit an appeal to the Provincial Public Service Commission thorugh the 
Authority with delegated powers and a copy of such appeal shall be forwarded to the Head of the institution, Head of 
the department and Secretaty to the respective ministry as appropriate.  it is the responsibility of the Authority with 
delegated powers to forward an appeal submitted to him without delay to the Provincial Public Service commission 
with his observations. The officer, if he desires, may submit an advance copy of the appeal   directly to the Provincial 
Public Service commission. 
 265. A retired officer making an appeal relating to a promotion due during the period when he was in the Provincial Public 
Service on which the decision has been made after his retirement by the relevant Authority with delegated power 
shall submit such appeal directly to the Provincial Public commission. However, a copy of such appeal shall be sent 
to his former Head of the department or former Head of the institution.  
 266. An appeal against an order of promotion made by an Authority with delegated power shall be made by the relevant 
officer within 30 days of making the decision in question and an appeal against an order of transfer made by an 
Authority with delegated power shall be submitted within 14 days of receipt of such order of transfer to the relevant 
officer. Appeals which are not received within the stipulated time shall be rejected by the Appeal Commission or the 
relevant Appellate Authority. 
 267. Head of the relevant institution, Head of the department, Appointing Authority and the Secretary to the ministry shall 
ensure that an appeal handed over by an officer for transmission to Provincial Council Public Service Commission 
is delivered to the Secretary of the said Commission along with all the relevant files, documents and reports and 
respective obsevations and recommendations. However, appeals on annual transfers mentioned in chapter XVi shall 
be forwarded to the Provincial chief Secretary before 01
st  of December along with the relevant files, documents, 
reports observations and recommendations. 
 268. It is the responsibility of every officer to submit the appeals in accordance with the requirements mentioned in this 
chapter and any appeal that does not conform to these requirements shall not be considered by the Western Provincial 
Public Service commission or the relevant Appellete Authority and by the Provincial chief Secretary.  
 269. Commission or the relevant Appellate Authority may take a decision with regard to an appeal submitted by an officer 
against an order of promotion within 45 days of the receipt of the documents mentioned in Section 223 above. The 
Provincial Chief Secretary may take a decision regarding an appeal submitted by an officer against an order of transfer 
within 15 days of receipt of the documents mentioned in Section 223 above. 

<!-- page 39 -->

39A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 270. The commission shall sent its decision on an appeal made as aforementioned directly to the Appellete Authority 
under registered post with copies  to the Authority with delegated powers, Head of the department and Head of the 
institution. 
 271. An officer aggrieved by a decision or an order of the Provincial Public Service Commission may appeal to the Provincial 
Governor within two weeks of receipt of such decision to an officer. 
CHAPTER  XVIII 
Preparation of Documents and Reports on Public Officers 
 272. every Authority with delegated power, every Administrative Authority, every Head of the department and every 
Head of the institution shall maintain the below mentioned  documents containing the information relevant to all 
the public officers under their purview in accordance with the formats prescribed by the Provincial Public Service 
commission. 
Documents to be Maintained 
 i. register of appointment and the promotion of the public officers to be maintained by the Authority with delegated 
power. 
 II. Regsiter of the public officers dismissed from the service to be maintained by the Authority with delegated power. 
 III. Register of the resigned public officers to be maintained by the Authority with delegated power. 
 IV . Register to be maintained by the Authority with delegated power of public officers who have vacated the post. 
 V . Register to be maintained by the Authority with delegated power of public officers under suspension and on compul-
sory leave.  
 VI. Register of retired public officers to be maintained by the Authority with delegated power. 
 VII. Register to the maintained by the Authority with delegated power of public officers sent on retirement on general 
inefficiency. 
 VIII. Register to be maintained by the Authority with delegated power of public officers sent on retirement as compassionate 
alternative to dismissal from service.
 IX. Semiannual report on the changes of the staff which is provided to the Commission by the Authority with delegated 
power (Submission of statistical data relevant to the public officers semiannually to the Commission).
 X. Register to be maintained in relation to the entire staff of every Government Office/ Institution. 
  
 273. The Authority with delegated power, the Head of the department or the Head of the institution shall forward a statistical 
summary of the data included in the registers mainained as per Section 272 above semiannually to the Secretary to 
the ministry. Thereafter, the Secretary to the ministry shall send the data due on 31
st of June and 31st of december of 
every year before 31st of July and 31st of January to the Secretary to the Provincial Public Service commission.  
 274. every Head of the Provincial ministry/ department/ institution shall maintain a continuous and updated register on 
the entitre staff serving in each of the office of the Provincial Council.  
CHAPTER XIX 
Channels of Commiunication 
 275.  every Authority with delegated power may correspond with the commission through his Secretary to the Provincial 
ministry, Western Provincial chief Secretary with regard to the matters related to his powers. 

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
40A
 276. Except as otherwise stated in these Procedural Rules, in all the cases an officer of Provincial Public Service shall 
correspond with the Provincial Public Service commission only through the relevant Head of the institution, Head 
of the department, the Secretary to the Provincial ministry and the chief Secretary of the Western Province. 
 277. every letter submitted to the Western Provincial Public Service commission shall only be referred to the Secretary 
to the commission. 
CHAPTER XX 
Applicability of the Establishment Code 
 i . chapter iV , chapter Vi to chapter XVii, chapter XiX to chapter XXXVi of the establishment code of the democratic 
Socialist republic of Sri Lanka shall apply with minor alterations together with their alterations to the requirements 
of the Western Provincial Public Service and amendments thereto. 
 ii . Governor shall have the right to interpret any matter mentioned under any chapter under the above mentioned Section 
of the establishment code of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, in relation to Western Provincial Public 
Service.  
 iii . every reference made as director General in the establishment code of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri 
Lanka as should be considered as a reference made for the Governor of the Western Province. 
CHAPTER XXI 
Interim Provisions 
  The rules enacted under Section 32 of the Provincial councils Act, No. 47 of 1987 inserted in the Extraordinary 
Gazette of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka No. 2055/13 and dated 24
th  January 2018 shall be repealed 
from the effective date of these rules. 
CHAPTER XXII 
General Matters 
 278. interpretations 
  Unless the context otherwise requires, in these Procedural Rules: 
 i. “Governor”  means the Governor of the Western Province, 
 ii. “Provincial Council”  means the Provincial council of the Western Province, 
 iii. “Provincial Public  Service Commission” means the Western Provincial Public Service commission appointed 
under Section 33 of the Provincial councils Act No. 42 of 1987,
 iV . “Chief Secretary” means the chief Secretary of the Western Province,
 V.  “Disciplinary Procedure” means the disciplinary Procedure of the Western Provincial Public Service, 
 Vi. “Disciplinary Authority” means the officer on whom the powers of disciplinary control of the provincial public 
service have been delegated by the commission, 

<!-- page 41 -->

41A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
 Vii. “Permanent Officer” means a public officer appointed by the relevant Appointing Authority on permanent 
basis to a post in an approved cadre in accordance with the approved Service minute or the approved Scheme 
of Recruitment subject to a probation period or inspection period or conditions thereon with or without pension 
rights. 
 Viii. “Substitute Employee” means an officer appointed to perform the duties of a post temporarily until the the 
substantive holder who is absent returns for duty.
 iX. “Casual Employee” means an officer appointed on casual basis to a post approved as a casual post on daily 
paid basis for a limited period. 
 X. “Temporary Employee”  means an officer appointed to a post approved as temporary post.  
 Xi. “Ex- Serviceman”  means an officer or a person of another rank who has honourably left an armed force by 
retirement or on being completed his period of service other than on disciplinary grounds. 
 Xii. “All Island Services” means a service already identified as All Island Services as Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects Service,   Sri Lanka 
Accountants Service, Sri Lanka Planning Service, Sri Lanka education Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Agriculture Service, Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service, Sri Lanka medical Service, Sri Lanka 
Indigenous Medical Service, Sri Lanka Surveyors Service, and any other service identified time to time as an 
island Service.  
  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these Procedural Rules, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
42A


<!-- page 43 -->

43A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
44A


<!-- page 45 -->

45A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
46A


<!-- page 47 -->

47A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
48A


<!-- page 49 -->

49A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
50A


<!-- page 51 -->

51A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
52A


<!-- page 53 -->

53A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
54A


<!-- page 55 -->

55A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 56 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
56A


<!-- page 57 -->

57A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 58 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
58A


<!-- page 59 -->

59A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023


<!-- page 60 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
60A


<!-- page 61 -->

61A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'29
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.12.2023
PriNTed AT THe dePArTmeNT Of GOVerNmeNT PriNTiNG,  Sri LANKA.
eOG 12 - 0391 
4. redress prayed for :-