

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl  1795$37  - 2013 ckjdß ui 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'01'31
No. 1795/37  -  THURSDAY ,  JANUARY 31,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
L.D.B. 6/2006.
FINANCE  ACT  No.  11  OF  1963
National  Lotteries  Board  Rules
RULES made by the National Lotteries Board in terms of the provisions of subsection (1) of section 14, section 16 and
section 20 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 and approved by the Minister of Finance and Planning under subsection (3) of
section 20 of the said Act.
The Chairman,
National Lotteries Board.
Colombo,
05th  December  2011.
RULES
1. These rules may be cited as the National Lotteries Board Rules No. 1 of 2011.
2. The National Lotteries Board (hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘Board’’) shall in terms of subsection (1) of section
14 of the Finance Act conduct the following National Lotteries :–
(a) Mahajana Sampatha ;
(b) Vasana Sampatha ;
(c) Colombo Airport Super Draw ;
(d) Govisetha ;
(e) Supiri Vasana Sampatha ;
(f) Jathika Sampatha ;
(g) Sevana Scratch Lottery and
(h) Samurdhi Scratch Lottery.
3. The Board shall conduct the Mahajana Sampatha National Lottery referred to in rule 2( a) above, subject to the
conditions set out hereunder :–
(1) There shall be conducted three draws per week on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday of the week.
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of twenty rupees (Rs.20)
(3) Each ticket shall have only one prize.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
2A
(4) The numbering of tickets shall be from 000000 to 999999 and be printed with a letter of the English alphabet
from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ excetp the letter ‘I’.
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, a letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’
except the letter ‘I’ of the English alphabet shall be drawn. In addition, six numbers shall be drawn one number
each from six barrels containing the numbers naught to nine (0 to 9). Every printed ticket shall also contain a
serial number. A modern technological method may be used for the draw.
(6) The prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions :–
(a) a sum of forty nine percent (49%) out of the proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the
award of prizes;
(b) where the English letter and the six numbers in a ticket agree with the English letter and six numbers
drawn consecutively from left to right, the super prize of not less than ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000)
shall be awarded to that ticket ;
(c) where the six numbers in one or more tickets agree with the six numbers drawn, consecutively from left
to right, each such ticket shall be awarded two million rupees (Rs. 2,000,000);
(d) where last five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last five numbers drawn, consecutively
from to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 100,000);
Where last four numbers in one or more trickets agree with the last four numbers drawn, consecutiuely
from left to reght, each such ticket shall be awarded Ten Thousand Rupees (Rs. 10,000) ;
(f) where last three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last three numbers drawn, consecutively
from left  to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one thousand rupees  (Rs.1000);
(g) where last two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last two numbers drawn, consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one hundred rupees (Rs. 100) ;
(h) where the last number (right side) in one or more tickets agrees with the last number drawn, each such
ticket shall be awarded twenty rupees (Rs. 20) ;
(i) where first five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first five numbers drawn, consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of ten thousand rupees (Rs. 10,000) ;
(j) where first four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first four numbers drawn, consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one thousand rupees (Rs. 1,000) ;
(k) where first three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first three numbers drawn, consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred rupees (Rs. 100) ;
(I) where first two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first two numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of fifty rupees (Rs. 50) ;
(m) where the English letter in one or more tickets agree with the English letter drawn, each ticket shall be
awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20) ;
(n) in the event of any money remaining from the total sum of forty nine percent (49%) allocated for the
award of prizes won, fifty percent (50%) of the said excess shall be credited to the next super prize draw
and the balance fifty percent (50%) shall be credited to a Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance Act ;
(o) where in any lottery draw, the monies alloctated for the payment of the prizes are insufficient to award
the total number of prizes won, the monies in the Prize Reserve Account shall be utilized  for the
balance sum ; and
(p) the Board shall be entitled to utilize the monies in the Prize Reserve Account in respect of any other
National Lottery conducted by the Board if it is deemed necessary.
4. The Board shall conduct the Vasana Sampatha National Lottery referred to in Rule 2( b) above, subject to the
conditions set out hereunder :–
(1) There shall be conducted one draw per week on every Thursday of the week.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
3A
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of twenty rupees (Rs. 20).
(3) Each ticket shall have only one prize.
(4) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers out of numbers from one to sixty nine
(1 to 69) shall be drawn, For the purpose of determining the Super Prize, a letter from a barrel containing
letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English Alphabet shall be drawn. An additional numbers shall be drawn from
the remaining sixty five (65) numbers in the draw machine which shall be the bonus number. Every printed
ticket shall also contain a serial number.
(5) Prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions :–
(a) forty seven percent (47%) out of the gross proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the
award of prizes ;
(b) where the English letter and the four numbers in a ticket agree with the English Letter and four
numbers drawn such ticket shall be awarded a sum of not less than ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000)
as the Super Prize ;
(c) where the four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the four numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of one million rupees (Rs. 1,000,000) ;
(d) where any three numbers and the bonus numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three
numbers and the bonus number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred
thousand rupees (Rs. 100,000) ;
(e) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each Such
ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000) ;
(f) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of one hundred rupees (Rs. 100) ;
(g) where any one number in one or more tickets agree with any one number drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20) ;
(h) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20) ;
(i) in the event of any money remaining after the award of the prizes, out of the total sum of  forty seven
percent (47%) allocated for the award of prizes, twenty five percent (25%) of the said money shall be
credited to the next super prize and the balance seventy five percent (75%) shall be credited to a Prize
Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance
Act ;
(j) where in any lottery draw, if the monies allocated to award the prizes are insufficient to award the
total number of prizes won, the monies in the Prize Reserve Account shall be allocated for that
purpose ; and
(k) the Board shall be entitled to utilize the monies in the Prize Reserve Account to award prizes in
respect of any other National Lottery conducted by the Board if it is deemed necessary.
5. The Board shall conduct the Colombo Airport Super Draw national lottery referred to in rule 2(c) above on behalf of
the Colombo Airport and Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) Limited, Katunayake, subject to the conditions set out hereunder :–
(1) Every lottery ticket shall be sold at the price of U.S. Dollars fifty ($50) or to the convertible sum equivalent
thereto. Every ticket shall be in duplicate. The original thereof shall be with the Board and the duplicate
thereof shall be with the purchaser. The purchaser of the ticket shall write legibly on the ticket his name and
address in the space provided for in the ticket ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
4A
(2) There shall be a draw in respect of every six thousand tickets sold.
(3) A luxury motor car shall be awarded as the prize of the lottery. The Cost Insurance and Freight value shall
not exceed forty seven percent (47%) out of the proceeds of the sale of tickets.
(4) The numbering of the tickets shall be from ‘1000’ to ‘6999’. The prize shall be awarded to the ticket which
contains the four winning numbers from left to right. The first of the winning numbers shall be drawn from
a barrel which contains numbers one to six (1 to 6). The other numbers shall be drawn from three barrels
which contain numbers from naught to nine (0 to 9). A modern technological method may be used for the
draw.
(5) The Board shall decide on the make of the motor car which shall be awarded as the prize of the lottery.
(6) The person who wins the prize shall forthwith be informed by the Board.
(7) In the event the winner not being resident of Sri Lanka the manufacturer of the said motor car or the agent
of the manufacturer shall send the motor car to the port closest to the address given in the winning ticket.
Thereafter the winner shall remove the said motor car according to the relevant written laws of that country.
(8) The winning ticket is transferable.
(9) The Ticket shall be sold in any country which permits the sale thereof.
6. The Board shall conduct Govi Setha National Lottery referred to in Rule 2(d) above on behalf of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Lands, for the purpose of collecting money for the Farmers’ Fund established by such Ministry subject to
the conditions set out hereunder :–
(1) There shall be conducted one draw per week on every Monday of the week.
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of twenty rupees (Rs. 20).
(3) Each ticket shall have only one prize.
(4) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers out of the numbers from one to seventy
(1 to 70) shall be drawn. For the purpose of determining the super prize, a letter from a barrel containing letters
from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English Alphabet shall be drawn. Four numbers within the range of one to seventy (1 to
70) shall be printed on every ticket together with an English Alphabetical letter from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ . Every printed
ticket shall also contain a serial number.
(5) The prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions :–
(a) forty seven percent (47%) out of the gross proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the
award of prizes ;
(b) where the four numbers and the English letter in any ticket agree with the four numbers and the English
letter drawn, such ticket shall be awarded a minimum sum of ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000) ;
(c) where the four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the four numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of  one million rupees (Rs. 1,000,000);
(d) where any three numbers and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers and the
English letter drawn, each such tiket shall be awarded a sum of twenty thousand rupees (Rs. 20,000) ;
(e) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000);
(f) where any two numbers and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers and the
English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one thousand rupees    (Rs. 1,000);
(g) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of one hundred rupees (Rs. 100);

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
5A
(h) where any one number and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any one number and
the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40);
(i) where any one Number  in one or  more  tickets agrees with any one number drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20);
(j) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20);
(k) in the event of any money remaining after the award of the prizes, out of the total sum of forty seven
percent (47%) allocated for the award of prizes, forty percent (40%) of the balance sum of money
shall be credited to the next super prize and the balance sixty percent (60%) shall be credited to the
Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the
Finance Act ;
(I) where in any lottery draw the monies allocated to award the prizes are insufficient to award total
number of prizes won, the monies in the Prize Reserve Account shall be allocated for that purpose ;
and
(m) the Board shall be entitled to utilize the monies in the Prize Reserve Account to award prizes in
respect of any other National Lottery conducted by the Board if it is deemed necessary.
7. The Board shall conduct the Supiri Vasana Sampatha National Lottery referred to in Rule 2(e) above on behalf of
the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Social Services and the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of collecting money for
the Sports’ Fund established by the Ministry of Sports and for the Social Services Fund established by the Ministry of Social
Services and for the Ranaviru Fund established by the Ministry of Defence subject to the conditions set out hereunder :
(1) There shall be conducted two draws per week on every Wednesday and Saturday of the week.
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-).
(3) Each ticket shall have only one prize.
(4) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers out of the numbers from one to seventy
one (1 to 71) and a super number out of the numbers from one to twenty six (1 to 26) shall be drawn. In every
ticket four numbers within the range of one to seventy one (1 to 71) shall be printed together with a super
number within the range of one to twenty six (1 to 26). Every printed ticket shall also contain a serial
number.
(5) Prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions :–
(a) forty seven percent (47%) of the gross proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award
of prizes;
(b) where the four numbers and the super numbers  in a ticket agree with the four numbers and the super
number drawn, such ticket shall be awarded a minimum sum of ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000) as
the super prize;
(c) where the four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the four numbers drawn such ticket shall be
awarded a sum of one million rupees (Rs. 1,000,000);
(d) where any three numbers and the super number in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers
and the super number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of fifty thousand  rupees
(Rs. 50,000);
(e) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000);
5 – G 17221

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
6A
(f) where any two numbers and the super number in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers and the
super number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one thousand rupees (Rs.1,000/-);
(g) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of one hundred rupees (Rs. 100/-);
(h) where any one number and the super number in one or more tickets agree with any one number and
the super number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);
(i) where any one number in one or more tickets agrees with any one number drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-);
(j) where the super number in one or more tickets agrees with the super number drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-);
(k) in the event of any monies remaining after the award of prizes, out of the total sum of forty seven
percent (47%) allocated for the award of prizes, forty percent (40%) of the said money shall be
credited to the next super prize and the balance sixty percent (60%) shall be credited to the Prize
Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance
Act;
(l) where in any lottery draw if the monies allocated to award the prizes are insufficient to award the total
number of prizes won, the monies in the Prize Reserve Account shall be allocated for that purpose ;
and
(m) the Board shall be entitled to utilize the monies in the Prize Reserve Account to award prizes in
respect of any other national lottery conducted by the Board if it is deemed necessary.
8. The Board shall conduct the Jathika Sampatha national lottery referred to in rule 2(f) above on behalf of the
Ministry of Health and Ministry of Labour for the purpose of collecting money for the Health Fund established by the
Ministry of Health and for the Labour Fund established by the Ministry of Labour respectively subject to the conditions set
out hereunder :–
(1) There shall be conducted two draws per week on every Wednesday and Saturday of the week.
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-).
(3) Each ticket shall have only one prize.
(4) The numbering of tickets shall be from ‘‘00000 to 99999’’ and each ticket shall be printed with a letter of the
English alphabet A to Z except the letter ‘‘I’’. Every ticket shall be printed with a Fortune number from one
to ten (1 to 10).
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, a letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘‘A ’’ to
‘‘Z’’ except the letter ‘I’’ of the English alphabet and a Fortune number from a barrel containing the numbers
one to ten (1 to 10) shall be drawn. In addition, Five numbers shall be drawn, one number from each barrel
out of five barrels containing the numbers naught to nine (0 to 9). Every printed ticket shall also contain a
serial number. A modern technological method may be used for the draw.
(6) The prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions :–
(a) a sum of forty seven percent (47%) out of the proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the
award of prizes;
(b) where the English letter, the Fortune number and the five numbers in a ticket agree with the English
letter, the Fortune number and the five numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, the super
prize of not less than five million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket ;
(c) where the Fortune number and the five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the Fortune number
and the five numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, such ticket shall be awarded two million
rupees (Rs. 2,000,000/-) ;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
7A
(d) where the five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the five numbers drawn consecutively from
left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 100,000/-) ;
(e) where Last four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last four  numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded ten thousand rupees (Rs. 10,000/-) ;
(f) where last three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last three numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one thousand rupees (Rs. 1,000/-) ;
(g) where last two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last two numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded fifty rupees  (Rs. 50/-) ;
(h) where the last number (right side) in one or more tickets agrees with the last number drawn, each
such ticket shall be awarded twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-) ;
(i) where first four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first four numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one thousand rupees (Rs. 1,000/-) ;
(j) where first three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first three numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred rupees (Rs. 100/-) ;
(k) where the Fortune number and the English letter in a ticket agree with the Fortune number and the
English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded one hundred rupees (Rs. 100/-) ;
(l) where first two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first two numbers drawn consecutively
from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of fifty rupees (Rs. 50/-);
(m) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket
shall be awarded a sum of twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-);
(n) in the event of any money remaining from the total sum of forty seven percent (47%) allocated for the
award of prizes won, fifty percent (50%) of the said excess money shall be credited to the next super
prize draw and the balance fifty percent (50%) shall be credited to a Prize Reserve Account in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance Act;
(o) where in any lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of the prizes are insufficient to award
the total number or prizes won, the monies in the Prize Reserve Account shall be utilized for the
balance sum ; and
(p) the Board shall be entitled to utilize the monies in the Prize Reserve Account in respect of any other
national lottery conducted by the Board if it is deemed necessary.
9. The Board shall conduct the Sevena Scratch national lottery referred to in rule 2(g) above on behalf of the
Ministry of Housing and Construction for the purpose of collecting money for the National Housing Development Authority
established by such Ministry subject to the conditions set hereunder :–
(1) The internationally recognized scratch and match technology shall be adopted for identifying the prizes of
each groups of tickets.
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of ten rupees (Rs. 10/-) or twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-) in accordance with
the range of prizes awarded to that ticket. There shall be printed such number of tickets per each groups of
tickets as may be determined by the Board. All tickets printed shall be offered for sale.
(3) Forty nine percent (49%) of the gross proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of
prizes. The prizes shall be determined by the Board within the range of ten rupees (Rs. 10/-) to one million
five hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 1,500,000/-).
(4) The ticket shall be printed in such manner that the instant prize cannot be seen by the purchaser of the
ticket until the latex covering a panel on the ticket is being removed.
(5) Each ticket shall clearly state the manner in determining whether a purchaser of a ticket has won a prize and
the procedure for claiming such prizes.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
8A
10. The Board shall conduct the Samurdhi Scratch national lottery referred to in rule 2(h) above, on behalf of the
Ministry of Youth Affairs, Sports and Samurdhi for the purpose of collecting monies for the Samurdhi Fund and subject to the
conditions set out hereunder :–
(1) The internationally recognized scratch and match technology shall be adopted for identifying the prizes of
each groups of tickets.
(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of ten rupees (Rs. 10/-) or twenty rupees (Rs. 20/-) in accordance with
the range of prizes awarded to that ticket. There shall be printed such number of tickets per each groups of
tickets as may be determined by the Board. All tickets printed shall be offered for sale.
(3) Forty nine percent (49%) of the gross proceeds of the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of
prizes. The prizes shall be determined by the Board within the range of Ten rupees (Rs. 10/-) to One Million
Five Hundred Thousand Rupees (Rs. 1,500,000/-).
(4) The ticket shall be printed in such manner that the instant prize cannot be seen by the purchaser of the
ticket until the latex covering a panel on the ticket is being removed.
(5) Each ticket shall clearly state the manner in determining whether a purchaser of a ticket has won a prize and
the procedure for claiming such prizes.
11. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of these rules, following provisions shall apply in general, for the
draw of any national lottery :–
(1) Where a specific method for determining the winning tickets has not been introduced by these rules, the
draw of any national lottery shall be conducted either by utilizing one or more barrels or a draw machine.
(2) Following particulars shall be stated on every ticket of any national lottery conducted by the Board which
does not bear instant prizes :–
(a) the name of the lottery;
(b) the price of each ticket;
(c) the number of the draw;
(d) the date of the draw;
(e) the venue of the draw;
(f) the manner to determine whether the ticket has won a prize and the manner for applying for the prize;
(g) the lottery is conducted by the Board subject to the provisions of the Finance Act.
(3) Following particulars shall be stated on every ticket of any national lottery conducted by the Board which
bears instant prizes :–
(a) the name of the lottery;
(b) the price of each ticket;
(c) the manner to determine whether the ticket has won a prize and the manner for applying for the prize;
(d) the lottery is conducted by the Board subject to the provisions of the Finance Act.
(4) The Board shall publish in news papers published in Sinhala, Tamil and English in Sri Lanka the winning
number or numbers of the national lotteries, the value of the prizes thereof and the name and address of the
winner or winners, as the case may be, if known and such other information as may be deemed necessary.
(5) Tickets that are torn or disfigured shall not be qualified to be presented to obtain a prize of a lottery.
However holders of such tickets shall, by paying the expenses to the Board cause such tickets to be
certified as genuine by an Examiner of Questioned Documents or any other person and present the same
for the award of the prize.
(6) All tickets printed in respect of each  lottery shall be presented for sale. The tickets shall be sold only at the
prices stated in the ticket. Prior to each draw, all tickets printed and not sold in that particular draw shall be
documented and certified by the auditors for cancellation.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
9A
(7) The Board may award from time to time additional prizes for the serial number or any other number of the
tickets of any national lottery with a view to increase the sale of tickets of such national lottery by a special
draw.
(8) The draw shall be conducted in the presence of a supervisory board comprising of one representative from
the Auditor General’s Department and one member from the Board of Directors or General Manager or the
Additional General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer of the Board and a Police Officer holding a post
not below the rank of an Assistant Superintendent of Police (hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘Supervisory
Board’’).
(9) The draw shall be made by a person or several persons not being members, officers or servants of the
Board.
(10) The Chairman of the Board shall determine the time at which the winning number or letter shall be drawn
according to the operation of the equipment used in the draw. When such determination is made, the
winning number or letter selected shall be deemed to be the legally drawn number or letter.
(11) The items in which the numbers or letters marked for the purpose of the draw shall after the draw be placed
in a safety box and padlocked in the presence of two members of the Supervisory Board. The box containing
the said items shall be opened in the presence of two members of the Supervisory Board. The keys of the
said box shall be in the custody of a Senior Executive nominated by the Chairman of the Board.
(12) There shall be an arrangement for the safe custody of the recordings of the draw, until they are transmitted
over the television. The Chairman of the Board shall decide on practical arrangements to be adopted.
(13) All the numbers or letters used in respect of the draw of the lottery and all other recording material shall be
duly examined by a recognized Standards Institute to the effect that all such material comprise of the
uniformity reasonably necessary for their durability.
(14) Any person below the age of eighteen years shall not be eligible to purchase national lotteries and the
Board shall not make any payment if any such claim is received.
(15) Any person having a winning ticket shall be entitled to receive the prize stated therein. Prizes shall be valid
for a period of six (6) monts from the day of the draw. Unclaimed prizes after this period shall be forfeited.
12. The following rules shall apply for the sale of national lotteries referred to in rule 2 :–
(1) The Board shall also use the telecommunication facilities such as Short Message Service (SMS) and
Interactive V oice Recognition (IVR) for the purpose of selling the national lottery tickets in addition to the
sales generated through the dealer network.
(2) The Board shall select a mobile service provider following the normal tender procedure and shall enter into
an agreement for this purpose.
(3) The Board shall pay a commission to the mobile service provider for the services so obtained as determined
by the Board and specified in the agreement entered under paragraph (2).
(4) The Board may appoint a third party to coordinate the operation among the Board, the mobile service
provider and the mobile users. The third party shall ensure an error free operation as the third party is held
responsible for errors and omissions.
(5) The third party shall be paid a commission as determined by the Board.
(6) Both commissions payable to the mobile service provider and the third party shall be within the normal
range of dealers’ or agents’ commissions payable to other dealers or agents.
(7) The users of any other mobile service network may use this facility in order to purchase lottery tickets
through the network of the mobile service provider with whom the Board has entered into an agreement to
obtain the service.
(8) The mobile service provider may fix a maximum amount up to which a user would use the facility. This may
be done with a view to avoiding any malprctices.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 13'01'31
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.01.2013
10A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
(9) Prizes for the winners shall be awarded in accordance with the prevailing prize structures of the national
lotteries.
(10) For the purpose of the operation, a number range as determined by the Board shall be allocated to the
mobile service provider from each national lottery draw from the master data base of a lottery.
(11) The mobile service provider shall settle the Board the proceeds of the tickets sold in the number range
allocated to such service provider deducting the commissions entitled by such service provider and the
third party in accordance with the agreements.
(12) Consolation prizes may be awarded as may be determined by the Board from time to time as a marketing
promotional strategy.
(13) The prize shall be paid to the registered owenr of a mobile phone.
(14) Where there is a prize for a lottery purchased through a mobile phone, the service provider shall set off up
to Rs. 1,000/- from the bill value in the mobile phone bill of registered owner. Where the payable amount in
the bill is less than Rs. 1,000/- the amount shall be entered as a credit in the mobile phone bill of registered
owner. Prior to making such payments, the mobile service provider shall obtain a certified list of the prize
winners from the Board and the third party.
(15) It is the responsibility of the mobile service provider and the third party with whom the Board has agreed
to run this operation to coordinate with the other service providers with regard to prize payments for the
lotteries generated through them.
(16) The Board shall pay the mobile service provider the sum of the total value of prizes up to Rs. 1,000/- so paid
or given credit by the mobile service provider to the prize winners based on a verified detailed list of the
prizes submitted.
(17) Prizes above Rs. 1,000/- shall be paid by the Board to user of a mobile phone only after producing the last
bill paid to ensure the payment is made to the correct party. Prior to making the payment, the Board shall
obtain a certification from the mobile service provider to verify the identity and to ensure correctness of the
record.
(18) The winners shall be subject to any Government taxes imposed from time to time.
(19) Where there is an unforeseen operational problem such as failure in downloading, unexpected power
failure or any other of such nature with regard to the number range allocated for the SMS lottery sales, the
Board reserves the right to cancel the said number range allocated for the SMS lottery sales for any
particular lottery draw to enable the Board to conduct the daily draws. However, all the purchasers who
were affected by the said cancellation shall be allowed to purchase tickets free of charge up to the total
value of the cancelled purchases.
(20) The purchasers of national lotteries shall be subject to all the rules of the Board and the mobile service
provider.
13. The National Lotteries Board (No. 2) Rule, 1981, published in Gazette No. 143 of May 29, 1981, is hereby
rescinded.
14. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires –
‘‘National Lotteries Board’’ means the National Lotteries Board established under the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 ;
‘‘National Lottery’’ means a lottery conducted by the National Lotteries Board under Section 14(1) of the Finance Act.
02–466
 This Gazette could be downloaded on www.documents.gov.lk