

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 4.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12,  2010
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 09th February, 2010]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
PULATHISI  DARUWO  FOUNDATION
TRUST  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 6 OF 2010

<!-- page 2 -->

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
1
Short title.
[Certified on 09th February, 2010]
L. D.—O. (Inc.) 5/2008
A N  ACT  TO  iNCORPORATE  THE  PULATHISI  DARUWO  FOUNDATION  TRUST
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Pulathisi
Daruwo Foundation Trust” has been established in
Polonnaruwa for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Fundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Pulathisi Daruwo
Foundation Trust  (Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
“Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hererby constituted, shall be  a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”),
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust” and by that name may
sue, and be sued, with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to organize, conduct and develop the educational
activities and pre-training activities for the poor
children and youth ;
Incorporation
of Pulathisi
Daruwo
Foundation
Trust.
Preamble.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
(b) to promote skills of youths ;
(c) to encourage the farmers and to establish young
Farmers Organizations ;
(d) to grant opportunities for training for youth in pre-
vocational education, sports activities, leadership,
computer, media and Tamil, English and other
languages ;
(e) to train persons engaged in activities  in furtherance
of national unity by conducting seminars,
discussions and workshops ;
(f) to commemorate and honour outstanding persons
who have contributed towards national unity, by
grant of awards, prizes, scholarships and
fellowships ;
(g) to establish libraries, archives and centres to preserve
and to protect the cultural heritage of  all
communities in Sri Lanka ;
(h) to promote welfare activities for the benefit of
children, women and orphans;
(i) to provide assistance by way of scholarships, loans
advances and grants to deserving students to pursue
studies and research in Sri Lanka and abroad;
(j) to establish and maintain Institutions for the welfare
and rehabilitation of the destitute, the disable, the
aged, the sick and displaced Persons ;
(k) to promote mutual understanding and co-operation
among people irrespective of race and religion ; and
(l) to establish and maintain projects for the  protection,
management and conservation of  the environment ;

<!-- page 4 -->

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
3
4.  Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to —
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of, any immovable property
for the purpose of the Corporation ;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation ;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind ;
(d) invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and to
maintain current deposits and savings accounts in
any bank ;
(e) publish or cause to be published books, journals,
magazines and other literature and establish and
maintain libraries, bookshops and printing presses;
(f) advance or lend and to borrow money for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner and
upon such security as the Corporation may think
fit; and
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation and to  prescribe their terms and
conditions of services.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
5.  (1)  The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules of the Corporation, made under section 6 be
administered by a Board of Management (hereinafter referred
to as “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairman,
Hon. Secretary, Hon. Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer and
nine other members elected in accordance with such rules of
the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Control of the Corporation shall be
the Board of Control of the Foundation, holding office on
the day immediately proceeding the date of commencement
of this Act.
(3) Mr. Maithripala Sirisena shall, until a Chairman is
elected in terms of this Act, be the Chairman of the first Board
of Management of the Corporation.
6. (1)  It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at an Annual General Meeting or at any Special General
Meeting of the Corporation convened for that purpose within
two weeks notice and by a majority of not less than two
thirds of the members present and voting to make rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other written
law, for the admission, withdrawal and expulsion of members
of the Corporation, the powers, conduct and duties of the
office bearers, the procedure to be observed in the transaction
of business at the meeting of the Corporation, the conduct,
duties and functions of the officers and employees of the
Corporation and otherwise generally for the management of
the  affairs of the Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects. Such rules when made may, at a like meeting and in
like manner be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(2)  The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7.  All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
5
to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundation
on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act.
8. (1)  The Corporation shall have its own fund
(hereinafter called and referred to as the “Fund”).
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—
(a) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Corporation in the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, functions and duties
under this Act; and
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Corporation, by way of loans, donations, gifts or
grants from any source, whether in Sri Lanka or
abroad.
9. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year ;
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and all other transactions of the
Corporation;
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor ,
(d) in this section, “Qualified Auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka, or of any other Institute established
by law, possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute ; or
Audit and
Accounts.
Funds of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of
President and the Secretary or such other person duly
authorized by the Board of Management who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
11. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
proceeding for any act done, or purporting to be done in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Associaiton or
Associaitons having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules made under
section 6 prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its or their members of the Corporation at, or
mmediately before, the time of the dissolution of the
Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody or politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Indemnity for
acts done in
good faith.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on the
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

Pulathisi Daruwo Foundation Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2010
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.