

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
1A
L.D. B 24/51.
THE  MOTOR  TRAFFIC  ACT (CHAPTER  203)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Transport under section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) read with section
164 of the aforesaid Act.
 NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILV A,
Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation.
Colombo,
12th of  November, 2015
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Motor Traffic (Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings) Regulations,
No. 02 of 2015.
2. (1)  These regulations shall specify in accordance with the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) the
Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings which shall be applicable to Roads, Highways, Provincial Roads, Expressways
and Restricted Access Highways which have been declared as such in terms of any law applicable to the same and in force
at the time of the making of these regulations and any such road which may be so declared at any time after these regulations
have come into operation.
(2)  The Motor Traffic (Signs) Regulations published in Gazette Extraordinary No.444/18 of March 13, 1987, are
hereby rescinded.Notwithstanding the aforesaid regulations being rescinded, the Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings
displayed under the provisions thereof, shall remain valid and effectual as if they are so displayed in terms of these
regulations.
3. (1) All Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings which form part of these regulations and which are depicted
in Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III, Schedule IV , Schedule V , Schedule VI and Schedule VII of these regulations are signs
which are accepted in terms of the Vienna Convention entered into on November 8, 1968 and November 30, 1995, to which
Sri Lanka is a signatory.
w;s úfYI
wxl 1940$21 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'11'12
No. 1940/21 - THURSDAY ,  NOVEMBER 12,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
2A
(2)  In terms of the aforesaid Convention the following instructions shall also be in operation in connection with the
use of the Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings as are specified in these regulations :-
(a) road users shall promptly obey all instructions given by authorized officials directing traffic;
(b) the instructions given by authorized officials directing traffic shall take precedence over those conveyed by
Traffic Light Signals, Road Signs and Road Markings and other traffic regulations;
(c) instructions given by  Traffic Light Signals shall take precedence over those conveyed by Road Signs
regulating priority; and
(d) road users shall comply with the instructions conveyed by Traffic Light Signals, Road Signs and Road
Markings.
4. (1) Traffic Signs that may be or that are required to be placed, erected, exhibited or displayed on any category of
roads in any part of Sri Lanka, shall comprise the following signs:-
(a) "Danger Warning Signs" which are specified in Schedule I to these regulations;
(b) "Regulatory Signs" which are specified in Schedule II to these regulations; and
(c) "Informative Signs" which are specified in Schedule III to these regulations.
(2)   The Danger Warning Signs, Regulatory Signs and Informative Signs specified in Schedule I, Schedule II and
Schedule III shall include signs that are required to be placed, erected, exhibited or displayed on all roads.
(3)  Each Traffic Sign referred to in Schedule I, Schedule II and Schedule III hereto shall be identified by the
distinctive number assigned to such sign in the respective Schedules. Any reference hereinafter to such number preceded by
the word "sign" or "diagram" shall be construed as being a reference to a particular sign or the diagram illustrating the sign
identified by such number.
5. (1) Any Danger Warning Sign illustrated in Schedule I hereto shall convey to road users, a warning of the danger
ahead, of the description specified inregulations 6 and 7 of these regulations,which corresponds to the number of the sign.
(2)  Any Regulatory Sign illustrated in Schedule II hereto shall convey to road users a prohibition, restriction,
mandatory requirement or priority requirement specified in regulations 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of these regulations, which
corresponds to the number of the sign.
(3)  Any Informative Sign specified in Schedule III hereto shall convey to road users, information of the description
specified in regulations 14 and 15 of these regulations, which corresponds to the number of the sign.
DANGER  W ARNING  SIGNS – (SCHEDULE I)
6. Any warning denoted by a Danger Warning Sign depicted in Column I of Part I of Schedule I to these regulations,
shall convey the meaning specified in the corresponding entry to each sign as specified in Column II thereof.
7. (1)  At places where the Competent Authority considers it advisable to indicate to drivers of vehicles approaching
a Danger Warning Sign, the distance between the sign and the beginning of a section of road having a potential hazard, a
dangerous section of a road, or a place where a priority requirement applies along with the Danger Warning Sign, such
indication shall be displayed on an Additional Panel which shall be of the size, colour and type shown and specified in the
diagram APD-1 of the Part II of Schedule I hereto affixed below the sign.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
3A
(2)  Where a Danger Warning Sign is used to give warning of a potential hazard or a danger on a section of a road
and the Competent Authority considers it necessary to indicate to the drivers of vehicles, the length of that section of the
road, such indication shall be done on an Additional Panel of the size, colour and type shown and specified in the diagram
APD-2 of the Part II of Schedule I hereto affixed below the sign.
(3)  A Danger Warning Sign may be repeated to warn the drivers of vehicles progressively, where the Competent
Authority in exceptional circumstances, considers it necessary to do so. Where a Danger Warning Sign is repeated, the
distance between the sign and the beginning of the section of road having the potential hazard or the dangerous section of
a road shall be displayed on an Additional Panel in accordance with provisions of paragraph (1).
(4)  In exceptional circumstances, where an intersection of roads has a geometrical layout different from any of the
typical geometrical layouts portrayed in symbols in Signs DWS-12 to 20 of the Part I of Schedule I thereto, the Competent
Authority may vary any such symbol or adopt a symbol to conform to the geometrical layout of such particular intersection
in a Danger Warning Sign required to be placed ahead of the intersection.
(5)  The details of the Danger Warning Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size
of the letters of figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of schedule I to these
regulations.
REGULATORY  SIGNS – (SCHEDULE II)
8. (1)  Regulatory Signs shall comprise the following categories of signs:-
(a) Prohibitory Signs;
(b) Restrictive Signs;
(c) Mandatory Signs; and
(d) Priority Signs.
(2) (a)  A Prohibitory Sign shall convey to drivers of vehicles an order of prohibition prevailing on a road or a
section of a road. Where the prohibition to which a sign relates is removed or the period of prohibition has ended, the
respective sign shall be removed.
The details of the Prohibitory Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of the
letters or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.
(b)  A Restrictive Sign shall convey to drivers of vehicles a restriction applicable to the use of a road or a section of
a road or removal or cancellation of such restriction.
The details of the Restrictive Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of the
letters or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.
(c)  A Mandatory Sign shall convey to drivers of vehicles a compulsory order to be followed.
The details of the Mandatory Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of the
letters or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.
(d)  A Priority Sign shall convey to road users the priority that shall be given to other road users, applicable to
certain situations or to latter road users the priority that shall be given to them by the former road users applicable to such
situation or that such priority ends.
The details of the Priority Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of the letters
or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
4A
9. Prohibitions, Restrictions, Mandatory and Priority requirements notified by Regulatory Signs shall be as specified
hereunder, according to categories of Regulatory Signs set out in paragraph (2) of regulation 8 and corresponding to the
numbers of the signs set out in regulations 10, 11, 12 and 13.
10. (1)  A Regulatory Sign, other than one which signifies cancellation of a prohibition or restriction, shall be placed
at the commencement or at a point close to the commencement, of a road or section of a road to which such Regulatory Sign
applies. When such a sign is placed, the relevant Regulatory Sign shall apply to the road or section of road beyond the point
where the sign is placed.
(2)  Sign PHS-9 shall be placed along the road near a hospital, school, Court House or any other place where the
Competent Authority considers it necessary to prohibit the drivers of vehicles to use the horn of the vehicles within the
particular location or section of road.
11. (1)  Where the Competent Authority is of opinion that it is necessary to do so, an Additional Panel of the size,
colour and type shown and specified in diagrams APR-01 APR-02 may be affixed below a Prohibitory or Restrictive Sign to
show the distance in relation to which the prohibition or restriction applies.
(2)  Additional Panels APR-08, APR-09, APR-10, APR-11, and APR-12, affixed below the Signs RSS-05, RSS-06,
RSS-07, RSS-08 and RSS-09 respectively, display the categories of vehicles to which the speed restriction applies.
(3)  Where the Competent Authority is of opinion that it is necessary to indicate the time period and the direction,
during which the restriction applies, an appropriate Additional Panel APR-06 may be affixed below the Signs PHS-23, PHS-24,
PHS-25 and PHS-26.
12. For the purpose of these regulations:-
(a) The following requirements shall be conveyed by Sign PRS-01 and Road Marking RM – 1 :-
(i) that every vehicle shall, before entering the intersection, stop at the transverse line shown in Road
Marking RM-01 of the Schedule V hereto or where such line is not visible, at the Sign PRS-01; and
(ii) that no vehicle shall pass such transverse line and where such line is not visible, pass the Sign PRS-
01 and enter the intersection, in such a manner or at such a time as is likely to cause danger to such
vehicle or to the driver or any occupant of any other vehicle on the adjacent road ahead, or as to
necessitate the driver of such other vehicle to change its speed or course.
(b) The requirements which are conveyed by Sign PRS-02 and Road Marking RM-02 is that no road user shall
proceed past the transverse broken line shown in Road Marking RM-02 of the Schedule V hereto, or where
such line is not visible shall enter the adjacent road ahead in such a manner or at such a time as is likely to
cause danger to such vehicle or to the driver or any occupant of any other vehicle on the adjacent road
ahead or as to necessitate the drivers of such other vehicle to change its speed or course.
13. (1)  Prohibition of parking of vehicles on any side of a road or a section of a road shall be indicated by Sign PHS-
23. Road Marking RM-16 may be placed along the edge of carriageway over a length of road to which such prohibition
applies. Sign PHS-24 and Road Marking RM-17 or RM-18 shall indicate the places where parking and standing of vehicles are
prohibited, and such signs shall be placed along the edge of carriageway over the length of road to which such prohibition
applies.
(2)  Where parking is prohibited on a road or section of a road on opposite sides on alternative days of the month,
Signs PHS-25 and PHS-26 shall be used instead of Sign PHS-23. The prohibition on parking shall apply to the side of the road
where the Sign PHS-25 is placed on the odd number days of the month and to the side where the Sign PHS-26 is erected on
the even number days of the month, where such days are reckoned from the dates in the calendar:

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
5A
Provided that where the Competent Authority so decides, any special day may be exempted from the days on which
such prohibition applies, provided that such exemption is indicated in accordance with paragraph (3) of this Regulation.
(3)  The scope of the prohibition on parking and standing shall be indicated by inscriptions on an Additional Panel
of the size, colour and type shown in diagram APR-06 affixed below the signs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) specifying
the time period or time periods over which such prohibition applies, or the time in excess of which parking or parking and
standing are prohibited and exemptions granted to certain classes and types of vehicles from the application of such
prohibition.
(4)  Where the Competent Authority considers it necessary, an Additional Panel of the size, colour and type shown
and specified in the diagram APR-03 of the Schedule II hereto, may be affixed below the sign at a point where prohibition or
restriction begins. An Additional Panel of the size, colour and type shown and specified in diagram APR-04 of Schedule II
hereto may be affixed below any sign repeating the prohibition or restriction and a further sign with an Additional Panel of the
size, colour and type shown and specified in the diagram APR-05 of Schedule II hereto affixed below it may be placed at the
point where the prohibition or restriction ceases to apply. Such signs shall be placed on the side of the road where parking
is prohibited or restricted.
(5) The sign placed at the point where the prohibition or restriction on parking begins, shall paralled to the road.
Other signs may be placed facing in the same direction as the first sign or one or more of such other signs may be placed with
the plane of the face of the sign parallel to the general direction of movement of traffic and facing the carriageway. Any
aforesaid Additional Panel illustrated in diagrams APR-03, APR-04 and APR-05 affixed below any aforesaid sign, shall have
the plane of its face parallel to the general direction of movement of traffic and facing the carriageway. Where a sign notifying
a prohibition or restriction on parking has been placed on any side of a road, the prohibition or restriction on parking shall
apply to all vehicles moving along or using that road subject to any requirement or condition specified in accordance with
paragraph (3).
(6)  The Competent Authority may restrict or prohibit parking of vehicles within 25 metres on major roads and 10
metres on minor roads of an intersection where he is of opinion that such restriction or prohibition facilitates the flow of
traffic and improves the safety of the road users. The distance from an intersection for this purpose shall be measured as
shown in sketches in Schedule VII hereto.
(7)  Any prohibition or restriction on parking indicated by any Signs PHS-23 to PHS-26 shall apply from the place
where such a sign is situated to the next intersection unless the length of section of road over which such a prohibition
applies is not displayed or shown in accordance with paragraph (4) of regulation 13.
(8)  Where Sign OSD-06 indicating a halting place for an omnibus has been placed on any road, no vehicle shall be
halted or parked within a distance of thirty (30) metres from such sign, except those vehicles which are required to stop in
conformity with paragraph (10) of regulation 19 and paragraph (3) of regulation 32,  provided the aforesaid distance of thirty
(30) metres shall be reckoned from the closest point of Road Markings RM-27 to RM-32 where this Road Marking is visible
for the time being.
INFORMATIVE  SIGNS – (SCHEDULE III)
14. Informative Signs shall comprise signs categorized as Advanced Direction Signs, Direction Signs, Place
Identification Signs and Confirmatory Signs for all roads and Other Signs useful for drivers.
15. Information conveyed to road users by Informative Signs specified in paragraph (3) of regulation 5 shall be of
the descriptions specified hereunder, corresponding to the numbers of the signs and according to categories of Informative
Signs specified in regulation 14.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
6A
MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS (ROAD WORK SIGNS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES) – (SCHEDULE IV)
16. Notwithstanding the other provisions in these regulations and subject to the provisions in regulations 17 to 19,
signs may be provided temporarily on or near a road (hereinafter referred to as "Temporary Signs"), for conveying the
following to drivers of vehicles and other road users:-
(a) information in respect of deviations or alternative traffic routes, due to road works or other obstruction or
restrictions of a temporary nature;
(b) information in respect of the route which shall be followed on special occasions such as sports events,
public gatherings which attract considerably higher volumes of traffic than otherwise; and
(c) a temporary prohibition, restriction or requirements of Temporary Signs shall have the same status in
enforcement and application, as a sign specified in regulation 3.
17. Signs mentioned in Schedule IV shall conform to such size, colour and type as specified below:-
(a) a Sign mentioned in Schedule IV shall be exhibited according to the situation;
(b) every letter, numeral and symbol incorporated in a Sign mentioned in above Schedule shall be black, red or
green on a white or yellow background;
(c) every letter and numeral incorporated in a Temporary Sign other than any letter or numeral incorporated in
the sign in accordance with Schedule III of regulation 14 shall be not less than forty (40) millimetres nor more
than two hundred and fifty (250) millimetres in height and not less than two hundred and fifty (250) millimetres
nor more than 500 millimetres in length;
(d) the identity of the Competent Authority responsible for placing any Temporary Sign on a road shall be
indicated in such a sign by means of words or letters displayed less prominently than letters, numerals,
symbols of the sign referred to in paragraph (b) and (c) of this regulation; and
(e) every Temporary Sign shall be of such size as is required to accommodate the wordings, numerals and any
symbol referred to in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this regulation and shall comply with the provisions of
paragraph (3) and (4) of regulation 18.
18.  (1)  Any information, warning, requirement, restriction or prohibition of a description which can be so conveyed
by any of the signs specified in these regulations and illustrated in Schedules I, II, III, IV and V to these regulations, shall not
be conveyed to drivers of vehicles using Temporary Signs of a different design and type.
(2)  For the purposes mentioned in regulation 16, any other sign specified in these regulations and illustrated in
Schedules I, II, III, IV and V to these regulations may be adopted in conformity with the relevant provisions of these
regulations.
(3)  Where a sign provided for a situation in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, differs from the
situation for which such sign is assigned or where there is no sign for such situation, the driver of the vehicle shall follow the
instructions, information or message inscribed in the background of the Miscellaneous Sign in conformity with regulation 23.
(4)  A sign specified in paragraph (3) of this regulation shall not be used without the approval of the Competent
Authority.
19.  (1)  Barricade Boards may be used to show the limits of road works on the carriageway. These boards shall be
placed facing the on-coming traffic and just in front of sections of roads that have to be closed for the use of traffic.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
7A
(2)  Where the extent of road works and the volume of traffic is justifiable, the limits of the road works shall be
indicated by means of such boards set up at suitable intervals along the bounding limits of the road works. The size, type and
colour of such barricade boards are shown and specified in diagrams MS-01 and MS-02 of Schedule IV hereto and they shall
be placed or erected so that their top edge is at a height not less than 1.0 metre and not more than 1.25 metres above the
surface of the carriageway nearest to them. Barricade boards may be used to indicate or mark the limits of a restriction or any
obstruction, at the discretion of the Competent Authority. The Yellow coloured stripes of the barricade board may be
reflectorized when the Competent Authority considers it advisable to do so.
(3)  Side Obstacle Markers of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-03 of the Schedule IV may be used to
indicate locations where the carriageway narrows in a manner that is not clearly visible to the drivers.
(4)  Direction Board of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-04 of the Schedule IV may be used
permanently to indicate the direction of road deviation at sharp curves.
(5)  Chevron Markers of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-05 of the Schedule IV may be used along
the outer edge of long hazardous bends to improve the visibility of the road alignment and to guide the drivers.
(6)  Roadside Delineators of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-06 of the Schedule IV are light
reflective devices and may be used to indicate the edge of the road and the road alignment.
(7)  A device constructed out of rubber or flexible plastic material and being of conical shape (hereinafter referred to
as a "traffic cone"), may be placed temporarily on the carriageway and shall be of the size, colour and type shown and
specified in diagram MS-07 of Schedule IV hereto. Traffic cones may be used for conveying the warning that drivers of
vehicles shall follow a certain route around road works or an obstruction or a restriction on a road, and to delineate the edge
of a route of vehicular traffic at or past such places. The white portion of the traffic cones may be reflectorized and the red
portions may also be reflectorized.
(8)  A device constructed of flexible plastic material and of conical shape of the size, colour and type and specified
in diagram MS-08 may be used for conveying to the road users a temporary prohibition of parking of vehicles on a section of
a road.
(9)  Guard Posts for control of traffic and demarcating areas for no parking of vehicles shall be of the size, colour and
shape indicated in diagram MS-09 of the Schedule IV .
(10)  "STOP" and "GO" signs of the type shown and specified in diagram MS-10 of Schedule IV may be used by
traffic wardens at schools or by workmen at road work areas to indicate to drivers that the drivers must stop or the drivers may
proceed.
(11) Guard posts for control of traffic and protection of road furniture shall be of the size, colour and shape indicated
in diagram MS-11 of Schedule IV .
20. (1)  Danger Warning Lamps of the type shown and specified in diagrams MS-13 to MS-15 with illuminated lights
shall be used during the night in combination with Temporary Signs to convey the warning that drivers of vehicles should
take special care. At such locations where traffic cones are placed on the carriageway, Danger Warning Lamps may be placed
in between, traffic cones. The height of the centre of a Danger Warning Lamp from the surface of the carriageway nearest to
it shall be not less than eight hundred (800) millimetres and not more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) millimetres.
Electric Lamps and Lanterns may be used during the night to provide adequate lighting at locations where road works are in
progress.
(2)  In exceptional situations, if the Competent Authority considers it necessary, flashing light in diagram APS-05
showing an intermittent amber light may be used instead of Danger Warning Lamps specified in paragraph (1).

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
8A
21. A lamp in the form of an illuminated spherical globe may be used for conveying the warning that drivers of
vehicles are approaching a Road Refuge. The globe shall conform to the following specifications:-
(a) the globe shall be white;
(b) the globe shall have a diameter not less than two hundred and ninety (290) millimetres nor more than three
hundred and ten (310) millimetres; and
(c) the height of the centre of the globe from the surface of the carriageway nearest to it shall be not less than
three (3.0) metres nor more than five (5.0) metres.
22. (1)  Vehicle Markings of the shape, size and colour shown in diagrams MS-16 of the Schedule IV are used on the
rear of long vehicles to warn other road users of the presence of a long vehicle.
(2)  Vehicle Markings of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-17 of the Schedule IV are used to indicate
the fact that there is a disabled vehicle resulting from a mechanical fault or otherwise ahead, and warning road users of the
same in order that they may take necessary pre-cautionary action in passing this location.
(3)  Red flags of an area not less than point two (0.2) square metres and rectangular or triangular in shape as shown
in diagram MS-18, may be used or exhibited at a level which is not less than four hundred and fifty (450) millimetres from the
ground level by persons authorized by the Competent Authority to convey to drivers of vehicles, of a danger just ahead and
shall cause them to stop or slow down their vehicle in an emergency at or in the vicinity of, road works being executed, an
obstruction, or a restriction situated on or near a road.
(4)  A Traffic Warden Jacket of the shape and colour shown in diagram MS-19 of the Schedule IV , which is worn by
a Traffic Warden, is used to identify the Traffic Wardens on duty, controlling traffic.
(5)  A Police Jacket of the shape and colour shown in diagram MS-20 of Schedule IV which is worn by a Police Officer
is used to identify the traffic Police Officer on duty, controlling traffic.
23. Where an Authority, a Government Department, Corporation or any Statutory Body, Board or Contractor or an
Agent of any one of such persons or any other person (hereinafter referred to as a "Promoter") carries out any work on, in or
along a road or over and above a road, which may cause or causes obstruction to traffic, or which may restrict movement of
traffic, or may constitute a potential hazard or danger to users of the road, requiring provision of Traffic Signs in the interests
of safety of road users and to facilitate the movement of traffic along such road as specified in these regulations,
notwithstanding anything contained in the other provisions, the necessary signs shall be provided by such a Promoter, in
conformity with provisions of these Regulations and with the approval of the Competent Authority and subject to any
directions given by him, during a period of time such a situation exists. For the purpose of this Regulation, the Competent
Authority shall mean the Competent Authority responsible for the administration of such road.
ROAD  MARKINGS – (SCHEDULE V)
24. (1) A traffic sign consisting of a line or mark on a road (hereinafter referred to as a "Road Marking"), for
conveying to traffic on roads, a warning, a requirement or information of the description specified in this regulation shall be
of the size and type shown in the diagram in Schedule V hereto corresponding to the number of the sign. The provisions of
paragraph (2) of regulation 3 shall also apply to Road Markings and the diagrams illustrating Road Markings specified in the
Schedule V hereto with the expression, "Road Marking" substituted for the word "sign" in paragraph (2)of regulation 3.
(2)  In any diagram in the Schedule V hereto, the dimensions indicated within brackets against dimensions not
indicated in brackets may be treated as an alternative to the last mentioned dimensions.
25. (1)  Warnings, requirements or information conveyed by Road Markings specified in these regulations are of
the descriptions specified hereunder corresponding to the respective number of the Road Marking shown in Schedule V .

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
9A
(2)  On a four-lane undivided road, Asphalt Strips (RM-53) may be provided as a divider to separate the opposing
traffic flows. The Asphalt Strips shall be seventy – five (75) millimetres in width, thirty (30) millimetres in height and one
thousand two hundred (1200) millimetres in length as decided by the Competent Authority to ensure the safety of the road
users. The space in between the Asphalt Strips shall be six hundred (600) millimetres and the angle of the strips to the centre
line of the road is sixty degrees (60
0). Asphalt Strips are made out of asphalt concrete.
(3)  Single continuous longitudinal white line on either side of the Asphalt Strips shall be marked on the carriageway.
Vehicles are prohibited from crossing the Asphalt Strips for overtaking and only vehicles turning right may cross these
Asphalt Strips with safety.
(4)  Two longitudinal continuous lines (RM-54) drawn six hundred (600) millimetres apart on a four-lane undivided
road at the centre represents a centre median as a divider to separate the opposing traffic. Vehicles are permitted only to turn
right across these two lines. However, crossing the lines is not permitted for the purpose of overtaking.
(5)  Rumble Strips (RM-33, RM-34 and RM-35) are placed on the approaches to Pedestrian Crossings, sharp bends
or any other place, where the Competent Authority considers it necessary in order to reduce the speeds of approaching
vehicles. The thickness of Rumble Strips provided on the approaches to Pedestrian Crossings shown in diagram RM-32 shall
be not less than five (5) millimetres and not more than seven (7) millimetres above the surface of the carriageway nearest to
it. Rumble Strips are made out of reflective Thermoplastic paint and are placed at right angle to the centre line of the road.
26. (1) Road Markings may be painted or made of metal or other suitable material or of a material built into the road
or may consist of studs or plates. No Road Marking with the exception of the Asphalt Strips and Rumble Strips placed on the
carriageway shall project more than six (6) millimetres above the surface of the carriageway nearest to it unless it is a road
stud. Non depressible stud shall not project more than eighteen (18) millimetres at the highest point, and not more than six (6)
millimetres at their edges, above the surface of the carriageway nearest to them. Depressible studs fitted in Road markings
and incorporating reflectors shall not project more than 6 millimetres at their edges nor more than twenty five (25) millimetres
at their highest points when not depressed or eighteen (18) millimetres when depressed, above the surface of the carriageway
nearest to them.
(2)  The colour of every Road Marking other than those comprising studs specified in these Regulations, shall be
white unless otherwise provided.
(3)  The colour of Road Markings RM-16, RM-17, RM-18, RM-46 and RM-47 shall be yellow.
(4)  Non depressible and depressible studs which may be placed as Road Markings, shall be of colour, size and type
approved by the Competent Authority subject to the provisions of paragraph (1).
27. (1) Where Road Marking RM-11 or RM-12 comprising double continuous lines has been placed along the
middle or about the middle of any road, any vehicle using that road shall keep to the left of the lines so placed and shall not
cross or straddle the lines under any circumstances.
(2)  Where Road Marking RM-06 comprising a single continuous line has been placed along the middle or about the
middle of any road, any vehicle using that road shall keep to the left of the line so placed and may cross it only for the purpose
of turning to the right.
(3)  Where Road Markings RM-07 and RM-08 comprising a single continuous line in combination with a broken line
is placed about the middle of the road, no vehicle shall cross the above mentioned two lines to overtake another vehicle on
the side where the continuous line is placed.
(4)  Where Road Marking RM-03, RM-04 or RM-05 comprising a broken line has been placed along the middle or
about the middle of any road, any vehicle using that road shall keep to the left of the line so placed and may cross it only for
the purpose of turning right or for the purpose of overtaking a vehicle going ahead. Road Markings RM-03, RM-04 or RM-
05 may be placed preceding a Road Marking RM-06 over a length of at least fifty (50) metres.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
10A
(5)  Where Road Marking RM-13 comprising a broken line has been placed on any road with or without Road
Markings RM-03, RM-04 or RM-05, RM-06, RM-07, RM-08, RM-09, RM-10, RM-11, RM-12 or RM-43 to divide the carriageway
into four or more lanes, all vehicles using such road shall be driven within the traffic lanes so formed. Vehicles shall cross or
straddle the Road Marking RM-13 only for the purpose of overtaking or turning left or right. Vehicles shall be driven on the
outside lanes and the inside lanes shall be used for the purpose of overtaking or turning right, subject to paragraph (1), (2)
and (3) of this regulation.
(6)  Where the Road Marking RM-40 and or Sign OSD-07 is situated to signify a bus lane along with Road Marking
RM-44 to demarcate a bus lane, no road user other than a public transport vehicle, shall traverse, cross or make use of such
a lane, except where-
(a) it is necessary to avoid an accident or collision with another road user, provided any road user permitted to
use a bus lane or who has the right of way in a bus lane as provided in this regulation, is not endangered in
any manner;
(b) that section of carriageway assigned to such other road user is blocked or where there is an obstruction
ahead of that section of the carriageway outside a bus lane so that the most convenient way open for such
other road user to move ahead or out is by using the closest bus lane:
Provided however, that any road user normally permitted to use a bus lane or who has the right of way in a
bus lane as provided in this Regulation is not endangered in any manner. In such circumstances such other
road user shall revert to that section of carriageway assigned to him at the earliest opportunity;
(c) a Police Officer directs you to turn left or right or to move along a road which crosses a bus lane; provided
due consideration is given to the safe and smooth operation of vehicles in the bus lane;
(d) a pedestrian is permitted to cross a road according to the provisions of regulation 20 and paragraph (2) of
regulation 32;
(e) a person leaves or enters a vehicle;
(f) it is necessary to load or unload provided such loading or unloading is not prohibited.
(7) (a)  Where Road Marking RM-41 and or Sign OSD-09 is placed to denote a cycle lane along with Road Marking
RM-42, and when no other device is used to demarcate such a lane, no road user other than cyclists and any other persons
on cycles shall traverse, cross or make use of such a lane, except where –
(a) it is beyond the control of such other road user to avoid an accident or collision with another road user
provided any cyclist or any person on a cycle lane is not endangered in any manner;
(b) a Police Officer directs you to turn left or right or to move along a road, which crosses a cycle lane, provided
due consideration is given to the safe and smooth, operation of cycles in the cycle lane;
(c) pedestrian is permitted to cross a road according to the provisions of regulation 20 and paragraph (2) of
regulation 32;
(d) a person leaves or enters  a vehicle;
(e) it is necessary to load or unload provided such loading or unloading is not prohibited.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
11A
(8)  Where a cycle lane is provided, no cyclist shall leave such lane and move on to any other part or section of a road
which is not a part of a cycle lane, except where-
(a) the cycle lane is blocked or where there is an obstruction on the cycle lane which compels cyclists to leave
such a lane in order to proceed ahead. In such circumstances, cyclists shall revert to the cycle lane at the
earliest opportunity beyond such a blockage or obstruction, provided consideration is given to safe and
smooth operation of other traffic;
(b) a Police Officer directs you to turn left or right or to move along a road, which crosses a cycle lane, provided
due consideration is given to the safe and smooth, operation of cycles in the cycle lane.
(9)  The operation of a bus or cycle lane may be limited to certain hours or times of certain days or certain days of the
week or month as specified in Additional Panels affixed below Sign OSD-07 or OSD-09 placed at the commencement of and
along a bus or cycle lane. Where such a notice has been given, the provisions of paragraphs (6) and (7) of regulation 27 shall
apply only during any period of time specified in such notice.
(10)  Road Marking RM-43 comprising a broken line placed along any road indicates to a driver of a vehicle of the
existence of a hazard, cautioning such driver not to cross or straddle such Road Marking unless such driver considers it safe
to do so. Depending on the situation at the point, Road Marking RM-43 shall be placed on a road preceding Road Marking
RM-06, RM-11 or RM-12 over a length of at least fifty (50) metres.
(11)  The Junction Box shall comprise cross hatched diagonal lines bounded by lines along the perimeter of the
Junction Box, (hereinafter referred to as "perimeter lines"), and a permitted variant of the Junction Box, any corner of the
Junction Box, may be cut away in the manner shown in the bottom right hand corner of Road Marking RM-46 and in the top
right hand corner of Road Marking RM-47 to a maximum of ten per centum of the length of the side affected to accommodate
a corner kerb and where such variation is not required, the corners of the Junction Box shown as cut away in the aforesaid
diagrams shall be completed in the manner of the other corners not cut away:
Provided however, that –
(a) a perimeter line placed along a curved edge of a carriageway shall be curved accordingly;
(b) the overall shape and size of the Junction Box and the number and lengths of the lines constituting the
Junction Box shall be varied according to the circumstances; and
(c) a perimeter line placed at or near the place where a road meets a junction shall be transverse to the general
direction of the flow of traffic on that road, at that place.
(12)  The Junction Box shall be placed on the road carriageway at a junction, other than a roundabout, approved by
the Competent Authority and the requirements conveyed by the Junction Box shall apply concurrently with and shall not
over-ride any other requirement applicable for the operation of traffic at the junction conveyed by an appropriate Regulatory
Sign or Road Marking or appropriate Traffic Light Signals placed at or near the junction and in accordance with the provisions
of the Motor Traffic Act.
28. (1)  Road Marking RM-27 which shows the Road Marking required to be placed on the carriageway of a two (2)
lane road to indicate a Pedestrian Crossing, the placement of road studs and zigzag marking shall be optional, that is to say
the Road Marking at a Pedestrian Crossing comprise essentially of a band of stripes laid across the carriageway where the
pedestrians have the right of way, subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) and (3) of this regulation and paragraph (2) of
regulation 32, and two give way lines similar to Road Marking RM-02 placed across the carriageway on either side of the band
of stripes in conformity with Road Marking RM-27, subject to the provisions of this regulation.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
12A
(2)  Road Marking RM-28 shows the Road Marking required to be placed on the carriageway of a four (4) lane road
to indicate a Pedestrian Crossing, the placement of studs and zigzag marking are optional. Road Marking RM-29 shows the
Road Marking required to be placed on the carriageway of a pedestrian activated signalized Pedestrian Crossing, the
placement of studs and zigzag marking are optional. Road Markings RM-30 and RM-31 specify the Markings required to be
placed on the carriageway for raised Pedestrian Crossings on two (2) lane and four (4) lane roads, the placement of zigzag
markings is optional. Road Marking RM-32 shows the Road Marking to be placed on the carriageway for Pedestrian Crossing
with rumble strips on a four (4) lane road; the placement of zigzag marking is optional.
(3)  Any reference to a Pedestrian Crossing in these regulations shall mean a reference to:
(a) The band of stripes shown in Road Markings RM-27 to RM-32 placed on a road carriageway in conformity
with these regulations where such a Road Marking is visible; and
(b) That portion of the carriageway whose boundaries across the carriageway are abreast of Sign OSD-01
placed at each side of road, where the Road Marking of a band of stripes is not visible for the time being:
Provided however that in the application and enforcement of provisions of paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) of
this regulation and paragraph (3) (b) of regulation 32 at a place where a median, a refuge or an island is
placed on or about the middle of a road, the term "Pedestrian Crossing" with respect to vehicles approaching
it, shall mean the section of the band of stripes or portion of carriageway referred to in clauses (a) and (b)
above as a Pedestrian Crossing, between the said median, refuge or island and the edge of carriageway
which will be traversed upon by such vehicles approaching the Pedestrian Crossing and in the case of any
such Pedestrian Crossing the give-way line, road studs and zigzag markings may be placed only on that
section of the carriageway which is traversed upon by approaching vehicles in advance of the Pedestrian
Crossing.
(4)  The Sign OSD-01 notifying a Pedestrian Crossing shall be placed at a Pedestrian Crossing facing approaching
traffic on the near side of approaching traffic, outside the carriageway and shall be positioned in line with the edge of the
Road Marking referred to as Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (3) (a) of this regulation, which is nearer to such approaching
traffic. Such a sign shall continue to remain in that position whether the aforesaid Road Marking is visible or not and its
position be changed only to conform to the aforesaid requirement of this regulation if and when the position or width of the
aforesaid Road Marking is altered.
(5)  When the Competent Authority considers it necessary road studs and zigzag markings may be provided
according to the provisions in this regulation, at his discretion.
(6)  A Pedestrian Crossing shall be used by pedestrians after waiting with due care given to the vehicles approaching
it, or according to the directions given by a Police Officer or according to the indication of a Traffic Light Signal where such
Pedestrian Crossing is controlled by such signal.
(7)  No pedestrian shall cross a road in such a manner as to cause undue delay to any vehicle stopped in conformity
with the provisions of paragraph (7) of this regulation or paragraph (3) (b) of regulation 32 or cause any obstruction or delay
to other pedestrians using the Pedestrian Crossing.
(8)  Where a Pedestrian Crossing is provided on a road, no pedestrian shall cross that road at any other place within
a distance of fifty (50) metres from that crossing other than at any other Pedestrian Crossing. Such a distance from a
Pedestrian Crossing shall be taken to be the distances measured along the road from the nearest point of the Road Marking
referred to as Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (1) (a) of this regulation or the distance measured along the road from a point
abreast of the nearer of the Sign OSD-01 placed at a side of the road where the Road marking referred to as Pedestrian
Crossing in paragraph (3) (a) of this regulation is not visible for the time being.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
13A
(9)  Every driver of any vehicle approaching a Pedestrian Crossing shall reduce the speed of such vehicle to enable
it to stop at the Give way line of such crossing or before crossing the give-way line or to stop before reaching such crossing,
if the give-way line is not visible for the time being, or to stop with no part of the vehicle positioned beyond Sign OSD-01
placed at the near side of the road, if the give-way line and the Road Marking referred to as Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph
(3) (a) of this regulation are not visible for the time being.
(10)  Where any pedestrian is at a Pedestrian Crossing where for the time being, traffic is not controlled by a Police
Officer or where Light Signals which give directions to pedestrians to cross the road are not provided or are not functioning,
every vehicle approaching such crossing shall be brought to a halt not beyond Give way line of such crossing or before
reaching such a crossing if the Give way line is not visible for the time being, shall be brought to a halt with no part of the
vehicle positioned beyond Sign OSD-01 placed at the near side of the road, and where the Road marking referred to as
Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (3) (a) of this regulation and the Give way lines are not visible for the time being, and may
thereafter proceed with due regard to the safety of any pedestrian using such Pedestrian Crossing.
(11)  Every vehicle approaching a Pedestrian Crossing where traffic is for the time being controlled by a Police
Officer shall move ahead and traverse that section of the carriageway referred to as the Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (3)
(a) of this regulation according to the directions given by the Police Officer and with due regard to the safety of any
pedestrian using the Pedestrian Crossing.
(12)  No vehicle shall be stopped whether wholly or partly upon a Pedestrian Crossing or within a distance of thirty
(30) metres from a Pedestrian Crossing from the give-way line in the approach side and fifteen (15) metres from the nearest end
of pedestrian crossing (sign PDV-05) on the exit side from the pedestrian crossing unless:
(a) such vehicle is prevented from proceeding by circumstances beyond the control of the driver; or
(b) it is necessary to do so in order to avoid an accident.
(13)  The width of a Pedestrian Crossing shall be not less than two thousand four hundred (2400) millimetres.
(14)  A sign having the symbol in the Sign OSD-01 portraying a pedestrian, crossing the road from the left side to the
right side reversed to portray a pedestrian, crossing the road from the right side to the left side but conforming in all other
respects to the Sign OSD-01 and the requirements specified for the Sign OSD-01 of Schedule III hereto shall have the same
status.
29. In addition to the Road Markings RM-16, RM-17 or RM-18 the upper and vertical surfaces of the adjoining
kerbs may be painted yellow over the full length of that part of the road to which the prohibition or restriction of parking or
parking and standing applies.
TRAFFIC  LIGHT  SIGNALS – (SCHEDULE VI)
30. Light Signals which may be used for the control of drivers and for the provision of information and directions
to pedestrians at sites approved by the Competent Authority, shall be as specified in the following regulations.
31. (1)  Light Signals for control of drivers at intersections of roads and intersections with rail roads shall be of the
size, colour and type specified as follows:
(a) subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) Light Signals, shall comprise three lights, one red, one amber and
one green arranged vertically with the lamp showing a red light being the uppermost and that showing a
green light the lower most. In the alternative Light Signals shall comprise three lights, one red, one amber and
one green arranged horizontally and placed vertically above the carriageway. The red light shall be closer to
the centre-line of the carriageway, followed by the amber light and the green light;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
14A
(b) Each lamp shall be separately illuminated and the effective diameter of the lens thereof shall be not less than
one hundred and ninety-five (195) millimetres and not more than three hundred (300) millimetres;
(c) The height of the centre of the amber lens from the surface of the carriageway nearest to it shall be, in the
case of signals placed at the side of the carriageway or a road refuge or a median, not less than two point four
(2.4) metres and not more than four (4) metres and in the case of signals placed over the carriageway, not less
than six point one (6.1) metres and not more than nine (9) metres;
(d) The centres of adjacent lenses shall be not less than three hundred and five (305) millimetres and not more
than four hundred and ten (410) millimetres apart;
(e) No lettering shall be used on the lenses or in connection with a Light Signals; and
(f) The sequence of the Light Signals shown for the purpose of controlling a driver, shall be as follows:
(i) red, (ii) amber and red together,  (iii) green, (iv) amber.
(2)  The Light Signals specified in paragraph (1) may comprise a lamp with a lens or lamps with lenses of the size,
colour and type shown in diagram GAP-01 in the Schedule VI hereto, which when illuminated show a green arrow (hereinafter
referred to as "green arrow") together with red and amber lights, subject to the following provisions-
(a) the alternate positions relative to Light Signals specified in paragraph (1) at which it is permissible by these
regulations to affix the aforesaid green arrow or arrows, shall be the positions denoted as P1, P2, P3, P4, P5
and P6 in diagram GAP-02 as well as diagrams GAP-3 to GAP-12 in Schedule VI to these regulations, subject
to conditions specified hereunder:-
(i) where the Light Signals are without a green light, two green arrows or at least one green arrow, as the
case may be, shall be assigned in place of the green light;
(ii)  when the Light Signals are with the green light or when the position P1, has been assigned, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) the green arrow or other green arrow, shall be
assigned any position P2 or P3; and
(iii) any additional green arrow or arrows may be assigned any position or positions P4, P5 or P6 provided
that the positions P1, P2 and P3 have been assigned in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
sub-paragraphs;
(b) the directions in which the arrow of any lamp shown in diagram GAP-01 of the Schedule VI to these
regulations, points may be varied so as to be a direction which lies straight upright or a direction which is at
an angle of one hundred and thirty-five (135
0) degrees either to the left or to the right of the said upright
direction, to denote the direction of a road extending from a junction for which separate signal indications
are considered necessary by the Competent Authority;
(c) notwithstanding the other provisions of this regulation, a green arrow which gives indications to drivers to
turn left at a junction, may be placed separately from the other Light Signals specified in such paragraphs, at
the near side of the road to the vehicle approaching the junction to turn left, with or without a red lamp as
specified in paragraph (1) of this regulation affixed above it. The height of the centre of the lens of such a
green arrow from the surface of carriageway nearest to it, shall be the same as that determined for the
position P1 in accordance with the provisions of this regulation;
(d) the distance between the centre of a lens with a green arrow and the centre of any other lens affixed next in
position immediately above, below or to the side of the first mentioned lens, shall be as specified in sub-
paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of this regulation or not less than four hundred and fifteen (415) millimetres
and not more than four hundred and forty (440) millimetres if the diameter of the lens of the green arrow is the
larger of the two sizes specified in diagram GAP-01 of Schedule VI to these regulations;

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
15A
(e) the methods of fitting green arrows in positions P1, P2, P3, P4, P5 and P6 are indicated in diagrams GAP-03
to GAP-12 of Schedule VI to these regulations;
(f) alternative methods of fitting green arrows on overhead mounted Traffic Light Signals are given in diagrams
GAP-03 to GAP-12 of Schedule VI to these regulations.
32. (1) The significance of Light Signals specified in paragraph (1) of regulation 31 shall be as follows:-
(a) except as provided in paragraph (6) of this regulation, the red signal shall convey a prohibition that drivers
shall not proceed beyond the stop line on the carriageway, provided in conjunction with the signals or if that
line is not for the time being visible or there is no stop line, beyond the nearer of the signals facing such
traffic;
(b) the amber with red signal shall denote an impending change in the indication given by the signal from red to
green but shall not alter the prohibition conveyed by the red signal;
(c) the green signal shall indicate that driver is required to pass the signals with caution and proceed straight on
or to the left or to the right; and
(d) the amber signal shall, when shown alone, convey the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond the
stop line or, if that line is not for the time being visible or if there is no stop line, beyond the nearer of the
signal facing such traffic, except in the case of any vehicle which, when the signal first appears, is so close
to the said line or signal that it cannot safely be stopped before passing the stop line or the aforesaid signal.
(2)  The significance of Light Signals specified in paragraph (2) of regulation 31, shall be as follows:-
(a) subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (2) and paragraph 6 of this regulation, the red
signal shall convey the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond the stop line on the carriageway,
provided in conjunction with the signal or if the stop line is not for the time being visible, beyond the nearer
of the signal facing such traffic;
(b) subject to the provisions of paragraph (2c) of this Regulation the amber with red signal shall denote an
impending change in the indication given by the signal from red to green where a green signal is provided or
from red to green arrow or green arrows, but shall not alter the prohibition conveyed by the red signal as
specified in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (2) of this regulation;
(c) a green arrow, till such time as it is illuminated, shall indicate that drivers for whose benefit such a signal is
displayed, is required to pass the signal and proceed along a road extending from the junction in the
direction indicated by the green arrow notwithstanding any other indication given by the other signal;
(d) the green signal where it is provided, shall indicate that driver is required to pass the signal and proceed
straight on or to the left or to the right; and
(e) amber signal shall when shown alone, convey the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond the stop
line or if the stop line is not for the time being visible beyond the nearer of the signal, facing such traffic
except in the case of any vehicle, which when the signal first appears is so close to the said line or signal that
it cannot safely be stopped before passing the stop line or signal.
(3) (a)  Any vehicle passing any Light Signal in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Regulation, shall
proceed with due regard to the safety of other road users and subject to the direction of any Police Officer or other duly
authorized person who may be engaged in the regulation of traffic.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
16A
(b)  When a pedestrian is, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Regulation, using a Pedestrian
Crossing where Light Signals which give directions to pedestrians to cross the road, are in operation for the time being, any
vehicle approaching such crossing shall be brought to a halt at a position determined according to requirements specified in
paragraph (9) of Regulation 28 for determining the position at which any vehicle is required to be brought to a halt at such a
Pedestrian Crossing and may thereafter proceed with due regard to the safety of any such pedestrian.
(c) No vehicle passing any Light Signals, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
regulation turning right through an intersection into a road, shall cross the path of any vehicle moving into or through the
intersection or merge with any vehicles moving into such road in accordance with the indications displayed to such vehicles
by the Light Signals in operation at the intersection, in such a manner or at such a time as is likely to cause danger to such
vehicle or to the driver of any such other aforesaid vehicle or the occupants thereof or to necessitate the drivers of any such
vehicles to change its speed or course:
Provided however, any such vehicle turning right through an intersection, which has to cross the path of another
vehicle turning right through the intersection from another approach road of the intersection at the same time, shall give way
to the other vehicle if the other vehicle is moving from the right side or off side of the former vehicle and any vehicle turning
left on to a road at an intersection, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this regulation, shall giv e
way to vehicles moving from the right side or off side into or turning into the same aforesaid road in accordance with the
indications displayed to such vehicles by the Light Signals in operation at the intersection, when merging with such other
vehicles.
(4)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this regulation, when the green light of Light Signals specified in
regulation 31 is displayed, drivers for whose benefit the green light is displayed, must pass the signals and proceed straight
on or to the left or to the right to clear the intersection and its immediate approaches as speedily as possible unless such a
vehicle is prevented from proceeding in such a manner and is compelled to wait, or stop due to reasons beyond the control
of the driver of such vehicle.
(5)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Regulation, where traffic signals are provided in accordance
with paragraph (2) of Regulation 31, vehicles in a lane or on the side of a carriageway meant for traffic required to move in the
direction indicated by a green arrow, where such a green arrow is displayed, must proceed in the direction indicated by the
green arrow to clear the intersection and its immediate approaches as speedily as possible unless such a vehicle is prevented
from proceeding in such a manner or is compelled to wait, or stop due to reasons beyond the control of the driver of such
vehicle.
(6)  Where a vehicle is required to respond to any emergency call and used by Fire brigade, Ambulance or Police or
Armed services and the observance of the prohibition conveyed by the red signal as provided in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
this regulation, would be likely to hinder the use of that vehicle for such purposes, then such vehicles are exempted from the
observance of such a prohibition and may proceed beyond the stop line or the nearer of the signal facing such traffic, as the
case may be, in such a manner or at such a time as is not likely to cause danger to any other road user proceeding on or from
another road or on or from another part of the same road, in accordance with the Light Signals operating there in association
with such red signal.
(7)  The stop line referred to in these regulations shall mean the Road Marking RM-01 described in regulation 12 and
illustrated in the Schedule V to these regulations.
LIGHT SIGNALS FOR PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS (SCHEDULE VI)
33. (1)  Subject to provisions of paragraph (3) of this regulation, Light Signals used to give directions to only
pedestrians to cross a road which may be used in conjunction with Light Signals prescribed in regulation 31, shall be of the
size, colour and type and designed and placed as follows :-

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
17A
(a) subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Regulation, Light Signals for pedestrians shall comprise
two Light Signals, one of which shall be internally illuminated by a steady light to display an image of a
standing pedestrian in red (hereinafter referred to as the "red signal" and the other internally illuminated by
a steady light to display an image of a walking pedestrian in green (hereinafter referred to as the "green
signal"), as shown in diagrams LSP-01 and LSP-02 of the Schedule VI to these regulations and when one
signal is illuminated, the other shall not be illuminated;
(b) the two Light Signals referred to in sub-paragraph (a) shall be arranged vertically with the red signal being
at the top and the green signal at the bottom;
(c) the height of the lower edge of the container enclosing the Light Signals from the surface of the carriageway
nearest to it, shall be not less than two point one (2.1) metres and not more than two point six (2.6) metres;
and
(d) Light Signals for pedestrians shall be placed facing across the carriageway and so shielded to exclude the
possibility of their being mistaken by drivers for Light Signals for vehicular traffic.
(2) (a)  The period during which pedestrians should not cross the carriageway for their safety, shall be indicated by
an illuminated red signal.
(b)  The period during which, pedestrians should cross the carriageway for their safety, shall be shown by an
illuminated green Light Signal subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this regulation.
(3)  Where provision has been made for the green signal to flash by displaying the illuminated green image
intermittently immediately after the period during which the said image was illuminated by a steady non-flashing green light,
the red signal shall be illuminated immediately after the flashing green signal is extinguished. The indications given by such
a flashing green signal is an impending change to red and conveys the warning to pedestrians who have not already stepped
onto the carriageway for crossing it, that in the interests of their safety they should not step on to the carriageway to cross
it after such flashing green signal appeared.
(4)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of this regulation, pedestrian controlled signals activated
by the operation of a push button as indicated in diagram LSP-03 may be provided to enable pedestrians to obtain right of
way on demand. Where such pedestrian controlled signals are provided and if the signal for the pedestrian is red, the
pedestrians shall press the push button and wait until the green man appears for the pedestrians and the red signal for the
motorized traffic before stepping on to the Pedestrian Crossing.
FLASHING  LIGHT  SIGNALS  (SCHEDULE VI)
34.  Flashing Light Signals which display intermittent red or amber lights, may be used to give indications to drivers
at sites approved by the Competent Authority, subject to the provisions of the following Regulations.
35. (1)  Flashing Light Signals which may be used only at unprotected railway level crossings, ferry boat landing
stages, jetties or at places where aircrafts fly across the road at low altitudes, shall be of the size, colour and type specif ied
as follows:-
(a) a pair of lamps with each lamp showing an intermittent red light shall be used;
(b) the effective diameter of the lens of each lamp shall be not less than one hundred and ninety five (195)
millimetres and not more than three hundred (300) millimetres;
(c) each lamp shall be separately illuminated and when the signal is operated, each lamp shall show its intermittent
red light at a rate of flashing of not less than sixty (60) flashes and not more than ninety (90) flashes, per
minute and in such a manner that the light of one lamp is always illuminated at a time when the light of the
other lamp is not illuminated ; and

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
18A
(d) the lamps shall be affixed and placed so that the centres of their lenses shall be at the same horizontal level
at a height above the surface of the carriageway nearest to them in the case of signals placed at the side of
the carriageway or on a road refuge or median not less than two point four (2.4) metres and not more than
four (4) metres and in the case of signals placed over the carriageway not less than six point one (6.1) metres
and not more than nine (9) metres and the distance between the centres of the lenses of the pair of lamps
shall not be less than five hundred and fifty (550) millimetres and not more than six hundred and forty (640)
millimetres.
(2)  The significance of the red flashing Light Signal specified in this regulation shall be that the intermittent red
lights when displayed, conveys the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond that light.
36.(1)  A single amber flashing light or a pair of amber flashing lights shall be of the size, colour and type specified
as follows :-
(a) where a single amber flashing light is used, it shall be placed with the centre of its lens at a height above the
surface of the carriageway nearest to it, and in the case of a signal placed at the side of the carriageway or on
a road refuge or median it shall be placed not less than two point four (2.4) metres and not more than four (4)
metresand in the case of a signal placed over the carriageway not less than six point one (6.1) metres and not
more than nine (9) metres. Such a lamp shall show its intermittent amber light at a rate of flashing not less
than one hundred and twenty (120) flashes and not more than one hundred and fifty (150) flashes per minute
and the period between flashes shall not exceed one-fourth of a second and such a lamp shall have a lens of
effective diameter as specified in paragraph (b) of regulation 35;
(b) where a pair of flashing amber lights are used, the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
paragraph (1) of regulation 35 shall apply to such signals with the modifications that the word "amber" shall
be substituted for the word "red" wherever the latter word appears in these paragraphs.
(2)  The driver of any vehicle proceeding pass amber flashing light signal shall drive with caution.
(3)  Amber flashing Light Signals may be placed at approaches to intersections or at intersections without Traffic
Light Signals or at intersections with Traffic Signals, provided the flashing amber Light Signals are operated only at times
when the Traffic Light Signals are not operated.
PROHIBITED  DISTANCE  FOR  PARKING  OF  VEHICLES – (SCHEDULE VII)
37. (1)  The Competent Authority may restrict or prohibit parking of vehicles by Signs PHS-23 to PHS-26 or by Road
Markings shown in Schedule V to these regulations, in the following places:-
(a) Within twenty five metres (25m) of an intersection on a major or within ten metres (10m) of an intersection on
a minor road. (diagram PDV-01 to PDV-04);
(b) Within thirty metres (30m) on approach of a omnibus stopping place and fifteen metres (15m) on the departure
side of a omnibus stopping place. (diagram PDV-05);
(c) Inside an area which is designated as a omnibus stopping bay within fifteen metres (15m) on the approach
to the bay and ten metres (10m) from the departure point of the omnibus stopping bay. (diagram PDV-06);
(d) Within thirty metres (30m) from a Pedestrian Crossing along the near side of the approach to the Pedestrian
Crossing or within fifteen metres (15m) of the departure side of Pedestrian Crossing or on a Pedestrian
Crossing. (diagram PDV-07); or
(e) Within fifty metres (50m) of the approach side of traffic light at an intersection or within thirty metres (30m)
of pedestrian operated traffic lights not at an intersection and fifteen metres (15m) of the departure side of
pedestrian operated traffic signals. (diagram PDV-08  and PDV-09).

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
19A
(2)  The distance for this purpose shall be measured and marked for road markings as shown in diagrams (PDV-01
and PDV-09) in Schedule VII to these regulations.
DIRECTION  INDICATOR  SIGNALS (SCHEDULE VIII)
38. Direction indicator signals are signals-
(a) Given to inform the other road users of the driver’s intention to move to right or turn right;
(b) Given to indicate to other road users of the driver’s intention to move to the left or turn left or stop on the left;
and
(c) Given to inform the other road users of the driver’s intention to slow down or to stop.
TRAFFIC  CONTROL  DEVICES  OR  ARM  SIGNALS  (SCHEDULE VIII)
39. (1) Police Officers on traffic duty or traffic wardens may use Traffic Control Devices or Arm Signals as are
specified in Schedule VIII to these regulations for the purpose of conveying to traffic on a specified road, a requirement or a
warning that must be followed by the drivers of vehicles thereon.
(2) Traffic Control Signals given by direction indicator signals are used to indicate to other road users of the
intention of a driver to make certain manoeuvres.
HAZARD  INFORMATION  PANELS  (PLATES)  (SCHEDULE  IX)
40. (1)  Any person transporting dangerous goods or hazardous substances, (whether comprising liquid, solid or
gas) shall have affixed or cause to be affixed in the centre of all four sides of the container, motor vehicle or vehicle used for
the purpose of such transport, the relevant "Hazard Information Panel (Plate)" as are depicted in Schedule IX to these
regulations in a vertical position, so that every letter and figure of the warning plate is in a vertical position so as to be easily
distinguishable.
(2)  In the event of any spillage or fire from any vehicle bearing Hazard Information Panels (Plate) all persons using
the road should keep well away from the spillage and place which fine occured and forthwith inform the police, fire brigade
and the respective disaster management centres.
GENERAL
41. (1)  In providing signs conforming to these regulations or in modifying old signs to conform to these regulations
in an expressway, in a built-up area, in part of a built up area, or at a particular site in a built-up area, the Competent Authority
may adopt such larger dimensions applicable to a non-built-up area for any such signs as specified in Schedules I, II or III to
these regulations.
(2)  A dimension other than a dimension as to the height of a letter or a dimension expressed as being the maximum
or minimum specified in any of the Signs/diagrams in Schedules I, II, III, V or VI to these regulations,as the case may be, may
be varied, if the variations:
(a) in the case of a dimension so specified as three hundred (300) millimetres or more than three hundred (300)
millimetres does not exceed five (5) per centum of that dimension;
(b) in the case of a dimension so specified as fifty (50) millimetres or more than fifty (50) millimetres but not
exceeding three hundred (300) millimetres, does not exceed seven point five (7.5) per centum of that dimension;
or
(c) in the case of a dimension so specified as not exceeding fifty (50) millimetres does not exceed ten (10) per
centum of that dimension.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
20A
(3)  A dimension as to the height of a letter specified in any of the Signs/diagrams in Schedules I, II or III to these
regulations may be varied if the variation-
(a) in the case of a dimension so specified as one hundred (100) millimetres or more than one hundred (100)
millimetres does not exceed five (5) per centum of that dimension; or
(b) in the case of a dimension so specified as not exceeding one hundred (100) millimetres, does not exceed
seven point five (7.5) per centum of that dimension.
(4)  Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (5) of this regulation, dimensions other than the one expressed
as being the maximum specified for Road Markings in any of the diagrams in the Schedule V to these regulations, may be
varied if the variation –
(a) in the case of a dimension so specified as three (3) metres or more than three (3) metres does not exceed
fifteen (15) per centum of that dimension;
(b) in the case of a dimension so specified as three hundred (300) millimetres or more than three hundred (300)
millimetres, but not exceeding three (3) metres, does not exceed twenty (20) per centum of that dimension; or
(c) in the case of a dimension so specified as not exceeding three hundred (300) millimetres where the actual
dimension exceeds the dimension so specified, but does not exceed thirty (30) per centum of the dimension
so specified, and where the actual dimension is less than the dimension so specified, but does not exceed
twenty (20) per centum of the dimension so specified.
(5)  A dimension as to the angle of hatching specified in diagrams RM-20, RM-21 and RM-22 may be varied, if the
variation does not exceed five (5
o) degrees.
(6)  Any dimension given in numerals without any unit of measurement of the dimension in any Signs / diagram of
any Schedule to these regulations, shall be taken to be in millimetres. The letter ‘m’ given along with any dimension in any
diagram of any Schedule or within brackets in Schedules I, II or III to these regulations, shall denote metres and letters ‘mm’
used similarly shall denote millimetres.
42. (1)  Information which may have to be given descriptively using words on any Additional Panel affixed below
any sign and the information required to be given in signs categorized as Informative Signs or Miscellaneous Signs, shall be
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.
(2)  Words used in Road Markings shall be in letters elongated in the direction of traffic as specified in the Schedule
IV to these regulations, with no more than two words at any one place or for any purpose.
43. (1)  Where any instruction, information or symbol of an old sign is materially different from any instruction,
information or symbol in the corresponding signs specified in these regulations the Competent Authority shall cause such
old sign to be replaced by the corresponding sign specified in these regulations or shall cause it to be made to conform to the
requirements specified in these regulations:-
(a) in the case of an old sign other than Road Markings or Traffic Light Signals within three years from the date
on which these regulations shall come into operation; and
(b) in the case of a Road Marking or Traffic Light Signals within six months from the date on which these
regulations shall come into operation.
(2)  Any old sign other than a Road Marking or Traffic Light Signal may exist alongside or close to the corresponding
new signs for a period not exceeding three months from the date on which a new sign, as specified in paragraph (1) is erected:

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
21A
Provided however, the two signs should not convey meanings which are different or conflicting in their enforcement
and application. If an old sign conveys a different or conflicting meaning the new signs erected under these regulations shall
override those conveyed by the old sign.
44. On the reverse side of every traffic sign or notice placed, erected or exhibited in conformity with these regulations,
the Competent Authority shall cause to be displayed in letters not less than twenty-five (25) millimetres in height, the official
designation of the Competent Authority immediately preceded by the words "By Order of".
45. Any numbers shown in Signs/diagrams illustrating Restrictive Signs RSS-01 to RSS-09, Additional Panels APR-
01, APR-02, APR-03 and APR-06 and RNS-01 to RNS-04 any numbers, names or descriptions shown in Informative Signs
IS(NH) – 01 to IS (NH)- 11, IS (PR)-01 to IS (PR) -05 and IS (EX)-01 to IS (EX)-07 in Schedule III to these regulations other than
the dimensions of signs are only given as illustrations and shall be substituted in such actual signs with numbers, names,
descriptions appropriate or applicable to the situations or specific purposes for which such signs are located. In the case of
Advance Direction Signs IS (NH) -01 to IS (NH) -06 the direction of any arrow shown in the diagrams shall be varied to accord
with direction applicable to the situation for which such a sign is provided.
46. (1)  Any sign or component of a sign specified in regulation 3, 15 and 21 may be reflectorised according to the
directions given by the Competent Authority using suitable reflecting material.
(2)  Any post placed or erected at the side of a road or on a road refuge, median or an island, to which is fixed, a sign,
specified in these regulations, shall be painted in black and white strips alternatively.
(3)  Traffic Signs shall be so erected that the mounting height is such that the drivers approaching the Signs can
conveniently read and understand the Signs. The Signs shall be erected such that the mounting height to the lowest edge of
the Sign is between one thousand (1000) millimetres and one thousand five hundred (1500) millimetres above the level of the
carriageway. However, if the Signs are to be erected on pedestrian foot walks, or on shoulders, the mounting height shall be
two thousand one hundred (2100) millimetres above the level of the carriageway. Where additional Panels are fixed to the
Signs, the height shall be to the lowest edge of the Additional Panel. Where Overhead Signs are provided, the lowest edge
of the Sign shall not be less than five (5) metres above the level of the carriageway. The nearest edge of the Sign shall not be
less than one thousand (1000) millimetres from the edge of the carriageway.
(4)  The dimensions indicated in the Schedules are given in millimetres. Where three alternative figures are shown
for a single dimension:-
(a) the first figure denotes the size of the Sign installed in built-up areas;
(b) the second figure denotes the size of the Sign installed in non-built-up areas;
(c) the third figure denotes the size of the Sign installed for Expressways.
47. No person shall-
(a) fix to a sign, to its support or to any other Traffic Control Device anything not connected with the purpose
for which such sign or device is provided. The Competent Authority may authorize a non-profit making
association or institution to install Informative Signs or the emblem of that association to appear on the sign
or in its support provided it does not make it difficult to understand the sign;
(b) install any board, notice, advertisement, markings or devices which might be confused with the signs and
signals or other Traffic Control Devices, might render them less visible or effective or might dazzle road users
or distract their attention in a way prejudicial to traffic safety.
48.  No person shall erect, exhibit or maintain or so as to be visible from a road or a private road, any sign, notice or
marking appearing to be intended for the guidance of road users without the prior approval of the Competent Authority.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
22A
49. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions made under these regulations shall be guilty of an offence
under the Motor Traffic Act.
50. In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires:-
"articulated vehicle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"built-up area" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"Competent Authority" means, in relation to Expressways and National Highways, Provincial Roads and
Pradeshiya Sabha roads, respectively –
(a) the Road Development Authority established under the Road Development Authority Act, No. 73
of 1981, or any other Authority which may be specially established;
(b) Provincial Road Development Authority; or
(c) The Local Authorites
empowered under section 164 of the Motor Traffic Act to erect Traffic Signs, Notices, Signals,
Road Markings and Symbols;
"depressable road stud" means a road stud in which the dome shaped central portion compresses on the
application of a load, (such as a wheel of a vehicle) and regains its original shape when the load is
removed;
"direction of traffic" or "direction of movement of traffic at any place on a road" means the normal direction
in which vehicles move ahead along the road carriageway, excluding those vehicles which are in the
act of overtaking or turning left or right;
"driver" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"expressway" shall have the same meaning as is assigned to it in the National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40
of 2008;
"inside lane" means in the case of a road without a median the lane closest to the middle of the road on that
side of the road carriageway, and in the case of a road with a median, the lane closest to the median
on that side of the road carriageway;
"interchange" means a location where two road cross at different levels and are connected to each other by
means of connecting ramps;
"island" means a device placed or constructed on a road as a distinct Road Marking or standing above the
surface of the carriageway or as a combination of both, which physically separates traffic approaching
it in the same direction into two traffic lanes;
"median" means a device placed or constructed over a length of road at or about the middle of a road as a
distinct Road Marking or standing above the surface of the carriageway or as a combination of both
to physically separate traffic moving in opposite direction on either side of the road and includes
Asphalt Strips;
"moped" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"motor coach or bus" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"motor cycle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"motor vehicle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
23A
"road" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"non built-up area" means all areas outside the built-up area or an area not considered to be a built-up area;
"outside lane" means the traffic lane on a side of the road carriageway, adjoining the edge of road carriageway,
and in the case of a road with a median means the lane adjoining the edge of the carriageway;
"parking" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"parking place" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"motor car" means motor vehicle, other than a motor cycle, intended for the transport of passengers and
which is capable of seating not more than nine persons (including the driver), and shall include a taxi
or a hired vehicle, provided that they have fewer than ten seats;
"pedestrian" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"permissible maximum weight" means total of the weight of the vehicle when stationary and ready for the
road (including the weight of the driver and all persons carried at the same time);
"principal road at an intersection" means, the road which carries a substantially higher volume of traffic
than any other road at that intersection or the road which has a greater demand for fast travel by
vehicles using it, compared to the other roads at the intersection or the wider road than the other
roads at an intersection if such a road does not carry an appreciably higher volume of traffic than any
other road at the intersection;
"provincial road" means a road coming under the purview of a Provincial Council and administered by the
respective Provincial Council or a local authority;
"level crossing" means any level intersection between a road and a railway track;
"reflectorise" means to apply a suitable paint, material or coating on a sign or on a component or components
of a sign, or to paint or fabricate a sign using suitable material so that the sign or the relevant
component or components gets illuminated in the night by reflecting light from an outside source of
light, without causing a glare, for greater discernibility in the night;
"refuge" means a device placed or constructed on or about the middle of a road on either side of a
Pedestrian Crossing standing above the surface of the carriageway to physically separate traffic
moving in opposite directions or in the same direction on a wide road, at the Pedestrian Crossing and
as a protective or safety measure for the pedestrians;
"road stud"  means a device, some of which is used as a component of a Road marking or as a Road
Marking with a dome shaped central portion protruding from a circular disc like or flat base made of
transparent plastic or a rubber like material which could be surmounted by a wheel of a vehicle,
traversing a road without an impediment to its movement;
"shoulder" means the section of the road platform immediately adjacent to the road carriageway and
supporting the road pavement structure;
"standing" means keeping vehicle stationery only for the time needed to pick up or set down persons or to
load or unload goods;
"straddles a Road marking" means a vehicle moves over a Road Marking or part of a Road Marking or
moves covering a Road Marking or a part of it, or a vehicle remains stationary over or covering a
Road Marking or part of it, without crossing it;
"The Highway Code" means a code which illustrates the provisions of these Regulations consisting of
directions as appear to be suitable for the guidance of persons using roads and includes directions
relating to prohibition, regulation and control of traffic; and
"tractor" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;
"motor vehicle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
24A
DWS-01 Left Bend Ahead
DWS-02 Right Bend Ahead
DWS-03 Double Bend to Left
Ahead
DWS-04 Double Bend to Right
Ahead
DWS-05 Hair Pin Bend to Right
Ahead
DWS-06 Hair Pin Bend to Left
Ahead
DWS-07 Dual Carriage-way Ends
A place on a road ahead where there
is a sharp bend to the left.
A place on a road ahead where there
is a sharp bend to the right.
A place ahead where two bends on
a road are in close proximity to each
other, the first being towards the left
and the second to the right.
A place ahead where two bends on
a road are in close proximity to each
other, the first being towards the
right and the second to the left.
A place on a road ahead where there
is a hair-pin bend to the right.
A place on a road ahead where there
is a hair-pin bend to the left.
End of a dual carriageway of a road
ahead.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
1. Danger Warning Signs
Schedule I
All dimensions are in millimetres

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
25A
A place ahead where the dual
carriageway of a road starts.
A place ahead where the road
narrows on both sides.
A place ahead where the road
narrows on the left hand side.
A place ahead where the road
narrows on the right hand side
A junction ahead of two
intersecting roads.
A place on a major road with a
staggered junction ahead where
two side roads intersect the
major road close to each other
with the first side road towards
the left and the second side
road to the right.
A place on a major road with a
staggered junctions ahead
where two side roads intersect
the major road close to each
other with the first side road
towards the right and the
second side road to the left.
DWS-08 Dual Carriage-way
Starts  Ahead
DWS-09 Road Narrows Ahead
DWS-10 Road Narrows on the
Left Side Ahead
DWS-11 Road Narrows on the
Right Side Ahead
DWS-12 Cross Roads Ahead
DWS-13 Staggered Junction
Ahead with First Side
Road to Left
DWS-14 Staggered Junction
Ahead with First Side
Road to Right
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I  (contd.)

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
26A
DWS-15 'T' Junction Ahead
DWS-16 'Y' Junction Ahead
DWS-17 Traffic From Left Merges
Ahead
DWS-18 Side Road From Left
Intersects at Right
Angle Ahead
DWS-19 Traffic From Right
Merges Ahead
DWS-20 Side Road From Right
Intersects at Right
Angle Ahead
DWS-21 Narrow Bridge or Culvert
Ahead
A place ahead where one road
meets another to form a “T”
junction.
A “Y” junction of three roads ahead
meeting at a common place.
A junction ahead where a side road
on the left merges with the major
road.
A junction ahead where a side road
on the left intersects the major road
at right angles.
A junction ahead where a side road
on the right merges with the major
road.
A junction ahead where a side road
on the right intersects the major
road at right angles.
A place ahead where there is a
narrow bridge or culvert
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I  (contd.)

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
27A
DWS-22 T wo-way Traffic Ahead
DWS-23 Stop Ahead
DWS-24 Give Way Ahead
DWS-25 Roundabout Ahead
DWS-26 Light Signals Ahead
DWS-27 Dangerous Descent
Ahead
DWS-28 Dangerous Ascent
 Ahead
A section of road, ahead temporarily
or permanently carrying two-way
traffic on the same carriageway.
A place on a minor road ahead
where traffic has to stop and give
priority to traffic on the major road it
intersects or meets according to
Regulation 10.
A place on a road ahead where traffic
has to give way to traffic on the major
road it intersects or meets before
entering the junction according to
Regulation 10.
A place ahead where two or more roads
intersect with a circular centre island in
the middle and traffic has to move
round the centre island in clockwise
direction referred to as a roundabout.
An intersection ahead controlled by
Traffic Light Signals.
A section of a road ahead where
there is a steep downward gradient.
A section of a road ahead where
there is a steep upward gradient.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I (contd.)


<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
28A
DWS-29 Slippery Road Ahead
DWS-30 Loose Aggregate/
Gravel Ahead
DWS-31 Falling Rocks Ahead
DWS-32 Pedestrian Crossing
Ahead
DWS-33 Children present/
crossing Ahead
DWS-34 Blind people crossing
Ahead
DWS-35 Road Work Ahead
A place or a section of a road ahead
which is slippery and liable for
skidding.
A road section ahead with loose
aggregate / gravel on the
carriageway.
A place or a section of a road ahead
where there is a risk of rocks falling
on to the carriageway or where
fallen rocks may lie on the
carriageway.
A place on a road ahead where
pedestrians cross the carriageway
A place along a road ahead where a
school or playground is located in
the vicinity and where children stay
on the road or cross frequently.
A place ahead where blind people
frequently cross the carriageway, at
a Pedestrian Crossing ahead.
A place on a road ahead where men
are working on the carriageway and
roadwork is in progress.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I (contd.)

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
29A
A railway level crossing
protected by gates ahead.
An unprotected railway level
crossing ahead.
A place on a road ahead where
a bus lane is reserved for the
use of buses.
A place on a road ahead where
a bicycle lane is reserved for
the use of bicycles.
A place ahead where cyclists
enter or cross the road.
A place ahead where cattle and/
or other animals may cross the
road or may be found on the
road.
A place ahead where the road is
on a quay or a place where a
side of the road drops steeply
into a river, lake, water-course,
waterway or sea.
DWS-36 Level Crossing with
Gates Ahead
DWS-37 Unprotected Level
Crossing Ahead
DWS-38 Bus Lane Ahead
DWS-39 Cycle Lane Ahead
DWS-40 Cyclist crossing
Ahead
DWS-41 Cattle Crossing Ahead
DWS-42 Road Ahead on a Quay
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I  (contd.)

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
30A
DWS-43 Dangerous Side Slopes
Ahead
DWS-44 Road Hump Ahead
DWS-45 Uneven Road Ahead
DWS-46 Dip or Causeway
Ahead
DWS-47 Hump Bridge Ahead
DWS-48 T unnel Ahead
DWS-49 Low flying Air Crafts
Ahead
A narrow road section ahead where
the side slopes are dangerously
steep.
A place on a road ahead where
humps have been   formed to
reduce vehicle speed.
A place on a road ahead where the
carriageway is dangerously
uneven.
A dip ahead on the road or
causeway
A place on a road ahead where a
hump bridge is located
A place on a road ahead where a
tunnel is located
An area ahead for low flying
aircraft
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I (contd.)

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
31A
DWS-50 Railway Level Crossing
Ahead
DWS-51 Railway Level Crossing
Comprising Two or
More Tracks ahead
A place on a road ahead where
there is a railway level crossing
A place on a road ahead where
there is a railway level crossing
comprising two or more tracks
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule I (contd.)
APD-01 Distance to a Hazardous
section of a road
APD-02 Length of a Hazardous
section of a road
APD-03 Direction to a Hazard on
an Intersecting Road
APD-04 School (supplementing
a Warning Sign) to be
affixed to Sign DWS-33
A panel used to indicate the
distance from the sign to the
beginning of a dangerous
section of a road
A panel used to indicate the
length of a hazardous section
of a road
A panel used to indicate the
direction to a hazard on an
intersecting road where the
distance from the
intersection to the hazard is
short
A panel fixed to the Danger
Warning Sign DWS-33, children
crossing ahead, when the
warning applies to a road section
at a school
(A) ADDITIONAL  PANELS  TO  BE  USED  WITH  DANGERS  WARNING  SIGNS
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
32A
Schedule II
All dimensions are in millimetres
2. REGULATORY   SIGNS
(a) Prohibitory Signs
PHS-01 No Entry
PHS-02 No Left Turn
PHS-03 No Right Turn
PHS-04 No U-turn
PHS-05 No Overtaking
PHS-06 End of No Overtaking
No entry for vehicular traffic to
enter a particular road.
No left turn for vehicular traffic at
an intersection.
No right turn for vehicular traffic
at an intersection.
U turns prohibited for vehicular
traffic.
Overtaking of power driven
vehicles other than two-wheeled
mopeds and two wheeled motor
cycles without sidecar is
prohibited.
End of prohibition of overtaking
conveyed by Sign PHS-05
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
33A
PHS-07 Overtaking by Goods
Vehicles Prohibited
PHS-08 End of Overtaking
by Goods Vehicles
PHS-09 No Horning
PHS-10 Road Closed for all
vehicles
PHS-11 Road closed for
Motor vehicles
PHS-12 Road Closed for
Buses
PHS-13 Road Closed for
Lorries
Overtaking of power driven
vehicles other than two-wheeled
mopeds and two wheeled motor
cycles without sidecar by goods
vehicles exceeding 3.5 tons is
prohibited.
End of prohibition of overtaking
conveyed by Sign PHS-07.
Sound signals are prohibited at a
location or section of road.
All vehicles are prohibited from
entering a  particular road or
section of road.
Motor vehicles are prohibited
from entering a road or a section
of road.
Buses are prohibited from
entering a particular road or
section of road.
Lorries are prohibited from
entering a particular road or
section of road.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
34A
PHS-14 Road closed for
Articulated vehicles
PHS-15 Road Closed for Power
Driven Agricultural
Vehicles
PHS-16 Road closed for Hand
Tractors
PHS-17 Road Closed for
Three-Wheelers
PHS-18 Road Closed for
Motorcycles
PHS-19 Road Closed for
Cycles
PHS-20 Road Closed for
Animal-drawn
Vehicles
Articulated vehicles are
prohibited from entering a road or
a section of road.
Power driven agricultural vehicles
are prohibited from entering a
road or a section of road.
Hand tractors are prohibited from
entering a road or a section of a
road.
Three wheelers are prohibited
from entering a road or a section
of a road.
Motor cycles are prohibited from
entering a road or a section of a
road.
Cyclists are prohibited from
entering a road or a section of a
road.
Animal drawn vehicles are
prohibited from entering a road or
a section of a road.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
35A
PHS-21 Road Closed for
Hand carts
PHS-22 Road Closed for
Pedestrians
PHS-23 No Parking
PHS-24 No Parking and
Standing
PHS-25 No Parking on
Odd days
PHS-26 No Parking on
Even days
Hand carts are prohibited from
entering a road or a section of a
road.
Pedestrians are prohibited from
entering a road or a section of a
road.
Parking of vehicles is prohibited
on the side of the road where the
sign is situated.
Parking and standing of vehicles
is prohibited on the side of the
road where the sign is situated.
Parking of vehicles is prohibited
on odd days of the month(1, 3, 5,
7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25,
27, 29, 31 of the month) on the
side of road where the sign is
situated.
Parking of vehicles is prohibited
on even days of the month (2, 4,
6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24,
26, 28, 30 of the month) on the
side of road where the sign is
situated.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
36A
Vehicles or Vehicles and load, of
overall width exceeding width
indicated are prohibited.
Vehicles, or Vehicles and load, of
overall height exceeding height
indicated are prohibited.
Vehicles, or Vehicles and load,
exceeding weight indicated are
prohibited.
Vehicles, or Vehicles and load,
exceeding axle weight indicated
are prohibited.
Vehicle categories - Motor cars,
dual purpose vehicles, motor
cycles, Motor coaches and motor
lorries are prohibited from
travelling at speed limit indicated,
applicable for built up areas or
hilly terrain except for 3 wheelers
and tractors.
Vehicle categories - Motor cars,
dual purpose vehicles and motor
cycles are prohibited from
travelling at speed  limit
indicated, applicable for non-built
up areas.
RSS-01 W idth Limit
RSS-02 Height Limit
RSS-03 W eight Limit
RSS-04 W eight Limit on
One Axle
RSS-05 vehicles within
built-up areas except
for 3 wheelers and land
vehicles
RSS-06 Speed Limit for light
vehicles outside
built-up areas
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
(b) Restrictive Signs
Schedule II (contd.)

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
37A
RSS-07 Speed Limit for heavy
vehicles in non
built-up areas
RSS-08 Speed Limit for 3 w heelers
and land vehicles in
built-up and non
built-up areas
RSS-09 Speed Limit for all vehicles
within school areas and
hospitals or any other
specificed location
RSS-10 End of Speed Limit
Vehicle categories - Motor
coaches and motor lorries are
prohibited from travelling at
speed exceeding speed limit
indicated, applicable for non-
built up areas.
Vehicle categories - Motor
tricycle vans, motor tricycles,
land vehicles and steam driven
motor vehicles are prohibited
from travelling at speed
exceeding speed limit indicated,
applicable for built up and non-
built up areas.
V ehicles prohibited from
travelling at speed exceeding
speed limit indicated, applicable
for locations where there are
schools, hospitals or any other
specified places for all
categories of vehicles.
The figure indicated shall be
applicable.
End of prohibition of speed limit
conveyed by Sign PHS-05. The
numerals indicated in the sign
may be changed depending on
the specified speed limit
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
38A
MNS-01 Turn Left
MNS-02 Turn Right
MNS-03 Straight Ahead
MNS-04 T urn Left Ahead
MNS-05 T urn Right Ahead
MNS-06 Pass Left Side
MNS-07 Pass Right Side
V ehicular traffic must turn left at
an intersection.
Vehicular traffic must turn right at
an intersection.
V ehicular traffic must proceed
straight ahead at an intersection.
V ehicular traffic must turn left
ahead at an intersection.
V ehicular traffic must turn right
ahead at an intersection.
Vehicular traffic passing the sign
must keep to the left of the sign
indicated by the arrow on the
sign.
Vehicular traffic passing the sign
must  keep to the right of the sign
as indicated by the arrow on the
sign.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
(c) Mandatory Signs Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
39A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
MNS-08 Pass either side
MNS-09 Compulsory
Roundabout
Vehicular traffic passing the sign
may keep to the left or to the right
of the sign as indicated by the
arrows.
Vehicles entering the intersection
must give priority to vehicles from
the right at the transverse Road
Marking RM-02 of Schedule 5
placed on the carriageway or if the
Road Marking is not visible, at the
road intersection, and proceed
beyond in conformity with the
direction indicated by arrows, in a
clockwise sense at the
roundabout.
(d) Priority Signs
PRS-01 Stop to give priority
to vehicles on the
adjacent road
PRS-02 Give Way to vehicles
on the adjacent road
Notification to drivers on a road
that they must stop and give
priority to vehicles on the
adjacent road which the road
intersects, in accordance with the
requirements specified in
paragraph (1) of Regulation 10.
Notification to drivers on a road
that they must give way to
vehicles on the adjacent road,
which they enter, in accordance
with the requirements specified in
paragraph (2) of Regulation 10.
Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
40A
PRS-03 Priority Road to
vehicles on the
major road
PRS-04 End of Priority given to
vehicles on the major
road
PRS-05 Priority for the
Oncoming Traffic
PRS-06 Priority over Oncoming
Traffic V ehicles
Notification to drivers of vehicles
on a major road which intersects
a minor road that drivers of
vehicles on the minor road
entering the major road at the
intersection are required to give
priority to vehicles on the major
road in conformity with
paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of
Regulation 10.
Notification to drivers of vehicles
on a major road that priority
given to drivers on the major road
as notified by Sign PRS-03 ends.
Notification to drivers of vehicles
approaching a narrow section of
a road that they shall give priority
to on coming vehicles over the
narrow section of the road
Notification to drivers of vehicles
approaching a narrow section of
a road that drivers of vehicles
moving in opposite direction are
required to give priority to
oncoming vehicles over the
narrow section of road.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
41A
ADDITIONAL  PANELS  TO  BE  USED  WITH  REGULATORY  SIGNS
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)
APR-01 Distance to a
Regulation
APR-02 Length of a
Regulation sign
APR-03 Start of Regulation
for Parking and
Standing Prohibition
APR-04 Direction of
Regulation for
Parking and
Standing Prohibition
APR-05 End of Regulation
for Parking and
Standing Prohibition
A panel used to indicate the
distance from the sign to the
beginning of a Regulation
A panel used to indicate the
length of a Regulation indicated
by a Regulatory Sign
A panel used to indicate the
start of Regulation for the
parking or the parking and
standing prohibition
A panel used to indicate the
continuation of Regulation for
the parking or the parking and
standing
A panel used to indicate the
end of Regulation for the
parking or the parking and
standing

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
42A
APR-06 Time Limitation of
Parking Prohibition
or Parking and
Standing
Prohibition and
direction of the
prohibition
APR-07 Exemption from
Regulation to be
affixed to
Sign RSS-09
APR-08 School or any other
specified places
(supplementing a
Regulatory Sign) -
To be affixed to
Sign RSS-09
APR-09 To be af fixed to
Speed Limit Sign
RSS-05
A panel used to indicate the
time during which a Parking
prohibition or Parking and
Standing prohibition applies
and the direction or directions
of the prohibition
A panel fixed to a Prohibitory
Sign to indicate exemption
from the prohibition. The text
on the panel may vary
depending on the exemption
A panel fixed to a Regulatory
Sign RSS-09 to indicate a
Regulation on a road section at
a school or any other specified
place such as Speed Limit or
No Horning
A panel fixed to the Sign
RSS-05 to indicate the
categories of vehicles
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
43A
APR-10 To be af fixed to
Speed Limit Sign
RSS-06
APR-11 To be af fixed to
Speed Limit Sign
RSS-07
APR-12 To be af fixed to
Speed Limit Sign
RSS-08
APR-13 To be affixed in
between Speed
Limit Sign RSS-05
and APR09
APR-14 To be af fixed to
Signs PHS-1, PHS-2
or PHS-3 at the
Entry to an
Expressway
A panel fixed to the Sign
RSS-06 to indicate the
categories of vehicles
A panel fixed to the Sign
RSS-07 to indicate the
categories of vehicles
A panel fixed to the Sign
RSS-08 to indicate the
categories of vehicles
A panel fixed in between
Speed Limit Sign RSS-05
and APR09
A panel fixed to the Sign
PHS-1, PHS-2 or PHS-3 at the
entry to an Expressway
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule II (contd.)


<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
44A
nfhOk;G
fz;b
 Gj;jsk;
nghyd;dWit
jpUNfhzkiy
jk;Gs;is
nghyd;dWit
jpUNfhzkiy jk;Gs;is
IS(NH)-01 Map Type
Advance
Direction
Sign - 4 way
Junction
IS(NH)-02 Map Type
Advance
Direction
Sign - 3
way  Junction
IS(NH)-03 Alternative to
IS(NH)-01
IS(NH)-04 Overhead
mounted
Map Type Sign
To indicate names of
important destinations
along a road extending
from a 4-way intersection
ahead, and their relative
directions, distances and
the route numbers.
To indicate names of
important destinations
along a road extending
from a 3-way intersection
ahead, and their relative
directions, distances and
the route numbers.
 Alternative to Sign
IS(NH)-01 (Stack type)
Overhead mounted sign
to indicate the names of
important destinations
along roads extending
from an intersection,
route numbers and either
the distance to them or a
symbol portraying the
type of destinations.
Schedule III
All dimensions are in millimetres
DIRECTIONAL  INFORMATIVE  SIGNS
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
(a) National Highways
fhyp
k`ufk

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
45A
`t;nyhf; efuk;
fpUyg;gid
ehty
`t;nyhf; efuk;
fpUyg;gid
ehty
fjph;fhkk;
,uj;kyhid;
Overhead mounted
sign to indicate the
directions and names
of important
destinations along
roads at an
intersection ahead.
Overhead mounted
sign to indicate the
lanes to be followed to
reach the indicated
destinations from an
intersection ahead.
To indicate the name of
an important destination
extending from an
intersection and the
distance to it.
To indicate the name of
an important destination
extending from an
intersection and a
symbol portraying the
type of destination.
IS(NH)-05 Overhead
mounted
Advance
Direction
Sign
IS(NH)-06 Overhead
mounted
Lane
Assignment
Sign
IS(NH)-07 Direction
Sign -
Place  and
Distance
IS(NH)-08 Direction
Sign -
Place and
Type
Schedule III (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
46A
`jghd;nfhl
n`huiz ,q;fphpa
nfhOk;G
rpyhgk;
IS(NH)-09 Confirming
Distances
IS(NH)-10 Beginning of
an
Administrative
Area
IS(NH)-11 End of an
Administrative
Area
To indicate the names and
distances in kilometres to
places where a road leads at
the exit from a large built-up
area or a Municipal area for
confirming the direction of a
road and the destinations it
leads to.
To indicate the boundary at the
entry to an administrative area
and the name of the
administrative area.
To indicate the boundary at the
exit from an administrative area
and the name of the
administrative area.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
(b) Provincial Roads
To indicate names of
important destinations
along a Provincial Road
extending from a 4-way
intersection ahead, and
their relative directions,
distances and the route
numbers.
IS(PR)-01 Map Type
Advance
Direction
Sign - 4 way
Junction
ePh;nfhOk;G
ePh;nfhOk;G

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
47A
uapfk
kpy;ydpah
vy;gpl;ba
`e;jghd;nfhl
n`huiz
,q;fphpa
IS(PR)-02 Map Type
Advance
Direction Sign
- 3 way
Junction
IS(PR)-03 Alternative to
IS(PR)-01
IS(PR)-04 Direction Sign
- Place
and Distance
IS(PR)-05 Confirming
Distances
To indicate names of
important destinations along a
provincial road extending from
a 3-way intersection ahead,
and their relative directions,
distances and the route
numbers.
Alternative to Sign IS(PR)-01
(Stack type)
To indicate the name of an
important destination along a
provincial road extending from
an intersection and the
distance to it.
To indicate the names of and
distances in kilometres to
places where a Provincial
Road leads at the exit from a
large built-up area or a
Municipal area for confirming
the direction of a road and the
destination it leads to.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)
vYypy;
gpq;tj;j

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
48A
msgùu
ntspNa
fodvkaf.dv
njhlq;nfhl
mdkÿr
ghze;Jiw
fld<U
nfhOk;G
mdkÿr
ghze;Jiw
fld<U
nfhOk;G
mdkÿr
ghze;Jiw
Schedule III (contd.)
(c) Expressways
To indicate the distance to
an interchange ahead,
names of important
destinations along roads
extending from the
interchange, their relative
directions and route
number.
To indicate names of
important destinations
along roads, extending
from the exit ramp of an
interchange and their route
numbers.
To indicate the name of the
place where an interchange
is located, distance to it
and the exit number.
To indicate the lanes to be
followed to reach
important destinations
along the roads extending
from an interchange ahead,
number of that interchange
and distance to it.
To indicate the names of
important destinations
along roads from an
interchange ahead.
IS(EX)-01 Advance
Direction
Sign (Map
type)
IS(EX)-02 Advance
Direction
Sign (Map
type),
at the diverge
taper
IS(EX)-03 Advance
Direction
Sign - Exit
Ramp
IS(EX)-04 Overhead
Mounted
Lane
Assignment
Sign
IS(EX)-05 Overhead
Mounted
Advance
Direction
Sign
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
fodvkaf.dv
njhlq;nfhlmsgùu
ntspNa
EXIT
fhtp

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
49A
fld<U
nfhOk;G
.d,a,
fhyp
(d) Other Signs Useful For Drivers
IS(EX)-06 Direction Sign
- Exit
Ramp
IS(EX)-07 Confirmatory
Sign
To indicate the location and
direction of an expressway exit
ramp.
Overhead mounted sign to
indicate the names of major
towns that lie ahead and the
distance to them on the route
on which they travel.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
OSD-01 Pedestrian Crossing
OSD-02 One Way Traffic
flow
OSD-03 Hospital
Pedestrian Crossing Sign is used at
a Pedestrian Crossing where
pedestrians have priority over
vehicular traffic.  Vehicular traffic
is required to stop and give way to
the pedestrians, crossing the road.
To confirm that the drivers are on
a one-way road.  The flow of
vehicles on this road shall be in the
direction of the arrow.
To inform the road users that there
is a hospital in the vicinity of the
sign.  It is implied that the
hospital is open 24 hours a day
for use in an emergency.


<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
50A
OSD-04 Parking
OSD-05 Parking for
Handicapped
Persons
OSD-06 Bus Stop
OSD-07 Bus only Lane Begins
or Continues
OSD-08 Bus Only Lane Ends
OSD-09 Cycle only Lane
Begins or Continues
To indicate a place for parking of
vehicles on the kerb side.
To indicate a parking space reserved
for handicapped persons. The sign
shall be used as a supplementary
plate to Sign OSD-04 Parking.
To indicate a place for the halting of
buses.
To inform the road users of a lane
exclusively reserved for the use of
buses.
To inform the road users of the end
of a lane exclusively reserved for the
use of buses.
To inform the road users of a lane
exclusively reserved for the use of
cycles.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
51A
OSD-10 Cycle only Lane Ends
OSD-11 Cycle and Pedestrian
Lane Begins or
Continues
OSD-12 Cycle and Pedestrian
Lane Ends
OSD-13 Streets for Pedestrians
only
OSD-14 Pedestrian Underpass
OSD-15 Pedestrian Overpass
To inform the road users of the end
of a lane exclusively reserved for the
use of cycles.
To inform the road users of a lane
exclusively reserved for cyclists and
pedestrians.
To    inform the road users of the end
of a lane reserved exclusively for the
use of cyclists and pedestrians.
To inform the road users of a street
reserved exclusively for the use of
pedestrians.
To inform the road users of the
entrance to a pedestrian underpass.
To inform the road users of the
entrance to a pedestrian overpass.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
52A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)
To indicate the entrance to an
expressway, where special rules
are to be observed .
To indicate the exit from an
expressway where special rules
cease to apply.  This sign shall be
placed at all exits or at specific
distances from the exits of an
expressway to notify road users
that expressway conditions do not
apply beyond that point.
To indicate to the road users the
location of a public telephone.
To indicate the location of a place
where information useful for the
road users, may be obtained.
To indicate the location of an
industrial area.
OSD-16 Entrance to an
Expressway
OSD-17 End of Expressway
OSD-18 Location of a Public
Telephone
OSD-19 Information Centre
OSD-20 Industrial Area

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
53A
OSD-21 Restaurant
OSD-22 Refreshment or
Cafeteria
OSD-23 Hotel
OSD-24 Filling Station
OSD-25 Breakdown Service
To indicate the location of a
restaurant.
To indicate the location of a cafe or
similar place where only
refreshments or light meals are
served.
To indicate the location of a hotel.
To indicate the location of a filling
station.
To indicate the location of a vehicle
workshop or a Garage
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule III (contd.)


<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
54A
RNS-01 Route Number Sign  for
“A” Class Highways
RNS-02 Route Number Sign for
“B”  Class Highways
RNS-03 Route Number Sign for
Provincial Roads and
Pradeshiya Sabha Roads
RNS-04 Route Number Sign for
Expressways
Route Number Sign for “A” class
roads.
Route Number Sign for “B” class
roads
Route Number Sign for Non national
highways (Provincial and Pradeshiya
Sabha Roads.)
Route number sign for expressways.
(f) Additional Panels to be used with Directional Informative Signs
(e) Route Number Signs
Schedule III (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
API-01 Distance to an
Information given in
the sign
API-02 Length of an
Information sign
API-03 Emergency Calling
Section to be affixed to
Sign OSD-18
To indicate the distance from the
sign to the location of the
information.
To indicate the length of the
information given in the information
sign.
To affix to the Sign OSD-18 Public
Telephone to indicate that the
telephone can be used for emergency
calls.

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
55A
MS-01 Barricade Board for
road works
MS-02 Alternate Barricade
Board for road works
MS-03 Side Obstacle Markers
MS-04 Direction Board for
permanent use
To indicate the limits of road works
on the carriageway and shoulders
(Black and Yellow).
To indicate the direction of the road
deviation temporarily at road works
(Black and Yellow).
To indicate points or road section
where the carriageway narrows in a
way that is not clearly visible to
drivers (Black and Yellow or Red and
white).
To indicate the direction of road
deviation at sharp bends and curves
(Red and White).
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule IV All dimensions are in millimetres
MISCELLANEOUS  SIGNS


<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
56A
MS-05 Chevron Markers
MS-06 Road Side Delineators
MS-07 Traffic Cone
MS-08 Traffic Cone for No
Parking
To indicate the road alignment at
bends (Red and White).
To guide the drivers about the edge
of the road and the road alignment.
But the delineator with red and
white can be used to warn the
drivers about the hazardous road
edge.
A Traffic Control Device to
demarcate temporarily the path
that the vehicles shall follow or
pass a temporary obstruction.
A Traffic Control Device to
temporarily prohibit parking.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule IV (contd.)


<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
57A
MS-09 Traffic Guard post for
No Parking
MS-10 “STOP” and “GO”
Boards
MS-11 Traffic guard post for
road furniture
Traffic guard post erected on the
kerb or   footpath to indicate
prohibition of parking.
Used by Traffic Wardens at
Pedestrian Crossings or
roadwork areas to indicate to
drivers that the drivers must stop
or proceed.
A Traffic Control Device to
control the traffic and
protect the road furniture (white
and black or white and red).
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule IV (contd.)

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
58A
MS-12 Traffic Barricade for
controlling traffic and
processions
MS-13 Lanterns
MS-14 Flashers (Amber)
MS-15 Electric Lamp
(Red and Amber)
To control Traffic and Public
Processions.
Light devices used at night to
indicate hazardous situation at
road works, for safety of the
road users
Used at road works for lighting
at night, for safety of the road
users
Erected at road work sites at
night for safety of the road
users.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule IV (contd.)

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
59A
MS-16 W arning signs to
Prevent crashes
MS-17 Disabled Vehicle Sign
MS-18 Red Flag
MS-19 Traf fic Warden Jacket
Affixed or drawn to rear side and
sides of long vehicles to indicate
the presence of long vehicles to
prevent crashes.
To indicate a break down vehicle.
Sign to be displayed at the rear
of the vehicle.
Where any goods carried in any
motor vehicle used on any
highway project, more than 1.5
metres behind the back or front of
the vehicle,  there shall be affixed
at the end of the load a red flag
during the day, and at night a white
or selective yellow light at the front
end and a light at the rear end so
as to be visible from a reasonable
distance to prevent crashes.
Worn by wardens approved by
the Assistant Superintendent of
Police of the District to control
traffic.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule IV (contd.)


<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
60A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Worn by Police Officer to
control traffic
To indicate the position beyond
which driver must not proceed
when required to stop.
To indicate to the drivers, that no
vehicle shall proceed beyond the
line in such a manner or at such a
time as is likely to cause danger to
such vehicle or the driver or any
occupant of any other vehicle on
the major road or in the roundabout
as to necessitate the driver of such
vehicle on the adjacent major road
or in the roundabout to change its
speed or course.
To indicate to drivers the division
between opposing traffic flows on a
carriageway having a width of over
6.10 metres.  Overtaking, crossing,
turning right and parking on either
sides permitted.
MS-20 Traffic Police Jacket
RM-01 Stop Line at an
intersection
RM-02 “Give Way” line at
“Give Way” signs.
RM-03 Broken Centre Line
Marking
Schedule V All dimensions are in millimetres
ROAD MARKINGS
Schedule IV (contd.)

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
61A
RM-04 Broken Centre Line
Markings incorporating
studs or cat eyes
RM-05 Broken Centre line
marking with Reflective
studs for high Speed
Highways and
Expressways
RM-06 Longitudinal
Continuous Centre line
Alternative Road Marking to RM-
03 incorporating studs (or cats
eyes). Overtaking, Crossing,
Turning Right and Parking on either
side permitted
To indicate to drivers the division
between opposing traffic flows on a
carriageway having a width of over
6.10 metres.  Overtaking and
crossing permitted.  Turning right
and parking on either sides
prohibited.
To indicate a prohibition to
drivers that this line shall not be
crossed unless it is for the
purpose of turning to the right to
avoid an accident in an
emergency.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
62A
RM-07 Combination of a
Broken Center Line and
a Continuous Line
RM-08 Combination of a
Continuous Centre Line
and Broken Line
RM-09 Combination of a
Broken Centre Line and
a Continuous Line with
Reflective Studs
To prohibit overtaking, the
continuous line which shall be
on the near side of the road.
Turning right and crossing the
continuous line to avoid an
accident in an emergency is
permitted.
To allow overtaking on the
broken line side. The broken line
shall be on the near side of the
road allowing overtaking,
crossing and turning right.
Alternative Road Marking to
RM-07 incorporating    studs.
Turning Right, crossing to avoid
an accident is permitted.
Overtaking is prohibited
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
63A
RM-10 Combination of Broken
Line with a Continuous
Centre Line with
Reflective Studs
RM-11 Longitudinal Double
Continuous Centre Line
RM-12 Longitudinal Double
Continuous Centre Line
with Reflective Studs
Crossing.
Alternative Road Marking to
RM-08 incorporating studs.
Overtaking, crossing and
Turning Right is permitted
To prohibit crossing, overtaking
or turning to the right, stradding
or parking on either sides  of the
road except avoid an accident in
an emergency.
Alternative Road Marking to
RM-11 incorporating studs.
Turning Right, Straddling and
parking on either side prohibited
except to avoid an accident.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
64A
Schedule V (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
RM-13 Lane Marking
RM-14 Longitudinal Edge
Line
RM-15 Longitudinal Line
with Reflective Studs
To indicate to drivers the
division of the carriageway into
traffic lanes.  Overtaking is
permitted between the lanes.
To indicate to drivers the edge
of the carriageway.
Alternative Road Marking to
RM-14 incorporating studs  to
indicate edge of the
carriageway.


<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
65A
RM-16 No Parking Line
(yellow line)
RM-17 No Parking Double
Line (yellow lines)
RM-18 No Parking Double
Line with Reflective
Studs (yellow line)
Longitudinal line along the edge
of the carriageway to indicate to
drivers that parking of vehicles
on a side of a length of road is
prohibited or restricted
(yellow line).
To indicate to drivers, that
parking, loading, unloading and
standing of vehicles on a side of
a length of a road is prohibited or
restricted (yellow line).
Alternative Road Marking to
RM-17 incorporating studs
(yellow line) to prohibit or
restrict Waiting, Loading and
Unloading (yellow lines).
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
66A
RM-19 Center Median Edge
Line
RM-20 Hatch line for traffic in
opposite direction
Road Marking along the edge of
a centre median or traffic island.
To indicate to drivers that part of
the carriageway which the traffic
should not enter unless it is
seen by the driver that it is
safe to do so.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
67A
RM-21 Hatch line for traffic in
same direction
(approaching)
RM-22 Hatch line for traffic in
same direction
(leaving)
Same as RM-20 where traffic
approaches in the same direction
on either side of hazard.  Traffic
shall not enter except in an
emergency.
Same as RM-20 where traffic
leaves in the same direction on
either side of hazard.  Traffic
shall not enter except in an
emergency.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
68A
RM-23 Compulsory left
turn
RM-24 Compulsory right
turn
RM-25 Compulsory straight
ahead
To indicate to drivers a
compulsory left turn ahead.
To indicate to drivers a
compulsory right turn ahead.
To indicate to drivers a
compulsory movement,
straight ahead.
Schedule V (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description


<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
69A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)
To indicate to drivers appropri-
ate traffic lanes ahead.
RM-26 Traffic Lanes
ahead

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
70A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)
RM-27 “ZEBRA”
Pedestrian
Crossing on
a  Two-Lane
Road
To indicate where
the pedestrians
should cross the
carriageway on a
two lane road
including all
relevant Traffic
Signs and Road
Markings.

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
71A
Schedule V (contd.)
RM-28 “ZEBRA”
Pedestrian
Crossing on
a Four-Lane
road
To indicate where
the pedestrians
should cross the
carriageway on a
dual four lane road
including all
relevant Traffic
Signs and Road
Markings.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
72A
RM-29 Pedestrian
Operated
signal
Crossing
To indicate where
the pedestrians
should cross the
carriageway at a
pedestrian
operated Light
Signals including
all relevant Traffic
Signs and Road
Markings.
Schedule V (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
73A
RM-30 “ZEBRA”
Pedestrian
Crossing on
a Raised
block paving
(two-lane
road)
To indicate where
the pedestrians
should cross the
carriageway on a
two lane road,
including all Traffic
Signs and Road
Markings.
Schedule V (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description


<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
74A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)
RM-31 “ZEBRA”
Pedestrian
Crossing
on Raised
Block
Paving
(four-lane
road)
To indicate where
the pedestrians
should cross the
carriageway on a
four lane road,
including all
Traffic Signs and
Road Markings.


<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
75A
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)
To indicate where
the pedestrians
should cross the
carriageway on a
dual four lane
road including all
relevant Traffic
Signs and Road
Markings.  In
addition Rumble
Strips are
provided on both
approaching sides
of the pedestrian
crossings to
reduce the speeds
of approaching
vehicles
RM-32 “ZEBRA”
Pedestrian
Crossing
with Rumble
Strips

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
76A
RM-33 Rumble Strips
(speed
50 kmph or
less)
RM-34 Rumble Strips
(speed more
than
50 kmph)
RM-35 Details of a
set of
Rumble strips
RM-36 Pedestrian
crossing or
Intersection
ahead
Rumble Strips are placed
on the approaches to
Pedestrian Crossings,
sharp bends or any other
place, where the
Competent Authority
considers it necessary in
order to reduce the speeds
of approaching vehicles.
Rumble Strips are placed
on the approaches to
Pedestrian Crossings,
sharp bends or any other
place, where the
Competent Authority
considers it necessary in
order to reduce the speeds
of approaching vehicles.
Thickness of Rumble
Strips shall not be less
than 5 millimetres no
more than 7 millimetres
above the surface of the
carriageway nearest to it.
Rumble Strips are made
out of reflective thermo
plastic paint and are
placed at right angle to
the centre line of the road.
To warn drivers that there
is a Pedestrian Crossing
or an intersection ahead
and to approach slowly
or drive slowly, by
reducing 10 kmph.  The
marking is provided 50
metres ahead of the
Pedestrian Crossing or the
intersection.  Distance
varies depending on the
speed limits gazetted for
the respective roads.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
77A
RM-37 Give way
RM-38 SLOW
RM-39 STOP
RM-40 BUS LANE
“Give way” Road Marking at a minor
road on major/minor road intersection
or at roundabouts, to be drawn just
before the “Give way” line to indicate
to drivers, that no vehicle shall proceed
beyond the line and enter the major
road of the intersection or the
roundabout in such a manner or such a
time as is likely to cause danger to
such vehicle or the driver or any
occupant of any other vehicle on the
major road or in the roundabout as to
necessitate the driver of such vehicle
on the adjacent road or in the
roundabout to change its speed or
course.
To indicate to drivers of a potential
danger ahead and the need to proceed
with caution.
To indicate to drivers, the approach to
a road junction at or intersection
controlled by ‘STOP’ Sign (Sign
PRS01) and Road Marking  RM-01.
To indicate a lane reserved for the use
of public transport vehicles.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
78A
RM-41 CYCLE LANE
RM-42 Cyclist Crossing
RM-43 Hazard Warning Line
To indicate a lane reserved for the
use of cycles.
Transverse Road Marking to
indicate where cyclists cross or
enter the carriageway.
Broken longitudinal line to warn
drivers of  a hazardous situation.
Crossing, overtaking with caution is
permitted.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)


<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
79A
Schedule V (contd.)
Longitudinal line towards
the edge of the road to
demarcate a bus or cycle
lane.
Longitudinal line towards
the edge of the road to
demarcate a bus or cycle
lane.
To indicate to drivers that a
vehicle must not enter the
marked area in a manner
which causes any part of
the vehicle to remain
stationary within the
marked area, due to the
presence of other
stationary vehicles,
provided that vehicles
turning right may wait
within the area when
prevented from proceeding
only by other stationary
vehicles in or near the
marked area waiting to
complete a right turn.
RM-44 Bus lane
RM-45 Cycle lane
RM-46 Junction Box
(Yellow Lines)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description


<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
80A
Schedule V (contd.)
RM-47 Junction Box
(Yellow Lines)
RM-48 Parallel Parking
spaces
RM-49 Perpendicular
Parking  spaces
RM-50 Angle Parking
spaces
To indicate to drivers that a
vehicle must not enter the
marked area in a manner which
causes any part of the vehicle
to remain stationary within the
marked area, due to the
presence of other stationary
vehicles, provided that vehicles
turning right may wait within
the area when prevented from
proceeding only by other
stationary vehicles in or near
the marked area waiting to
complete a right turn.
To indicate the size of parking
spaces to be provided for
parking of vehicles parallel to
the kerb or the edge of the
carriageway.
To indicate the size of parking
spaces to be provided for
parking of vehicles right angles
to the kerb or the edge of the
carriageway.
To indicate the size of parking
spaces to be provided for
angular parking of vehicles at
30°, 45° and  60° to the kerb
or the edge of the  carriageway.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description


<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
81A
RM-51 Speed Limit
RM-52 End of  speed limit
RM-53 Asphalt strips
RM-54 Centre Median
Marking
To indicate the maximum speed
limit traffic may travel on the
carriageway
To indicate the end of speed
limit on the carriageway
Asphalt Strips may be provided as a
divider to separate the opposing traffic
flows on a four-lane undivided road.
The Asphalt Strips shall be 75
millimetres in width, 30 millimetres in
height and 1200 millimetres length or
decided by the Competent Authority
to ensure the safety of the road users.
The space in between the Asphalt
Strips shall be 600 millimetres and the
angle of the strips to the centre line of
the road is 60°. Asphalt Strips are
made out of asphalt concrete.   Single
continuous longitudinal white line on
either side of the Asphalt Strips shall
be marked on the carriageway.  Vehicles
are prohibited from crossing the
Asphalt Strips for overtaking and only
vehicles turning.
Two longitudinal continuous lines
drawn 600 mm apart on a four-lane
undivided road at the centre represents
a centre median as a divider to separate
the opposing traffic. Vehicles are
permitted only to turn right across
these two lines. However, crossing the
lines is not permitted for the purpose
of overtaking.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule V (contd.)

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
82A
APS-01 Red Light
APS-02 Red and Amber Lights
APS-03 Green Light
APS-04 Amber Light
A red light means STOP and vehicles
shall not proceed beyond the stop
line or, if there is no stop line, shall
not proceed beyond the line of the
signal or, if the signal is placed in the
middle or on the opposite side of an
intersection, shall not enter the
intersection or move on to an area
designated for a Pedestrian Crossing
at the intersection.
Red and Amber means STOP.  An
amber light, which appear at the same
time with the red light shall mean
that the signal is about to change.
Do not proceed until Green light
appears .
 A green light means that traffic may
proceed straight or may turn left or
right; with safety. However, a green
light for controlling traffic at an
intersection shall not authorize
drivers to proceed if traffic is so
congested in the direction in which
they are about to proceed and if they
enter the intersection they would
probably not have cleared it by the
next change of phase.
 An amber light, which appears alone
shall mean that no vehicle may pass
the stop line or beyond the line of
the signal unless it is so close to the
stop line or signal when the light
appears that it cannot be safely
stopped before passing the stop line
or beyond the line of the signal.
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Schedule VI
TRAFFIC  LIGHT  SIGNALS
(a) Alternative Positions Of  Traffic Light Signals


<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
83A
APS-05 Flashing Amber lights
GAP-01 Green Arrow
GAP-02 Alternative Positions of
the Green Arrow and
Arrows
GAP-03 Position P2
A single amber flashing light shall
mean that drivers reduce speed and
may proceed but shall do so with
particular care.   Amber flashing light
may be used in place of a three -
colour system at time when traffic is
light, particularly in the nights.
Amber Flashing Light Signals are
placed at intersections.  They are
operated only at times when traffic
lights are not operated.
Green Arrow - Traffic shall follow
in the direction of the arrows.
Alternative positions of the Green
Arrow Traffic shall follow in the
direction of the arrows
Alternative positions of the Green
Arrow - P2.  Traffic shall follow in
the direction of the arrows
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
(b) Green Arrow And Its Alternative Positions
Schedule VI (contd.)


<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
84A
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P1.  Traffic
shall follow in the direction
of the arrows
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P3.  Traffic
shall follow in the direction
of the arrows
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P1 and P2.
Traffic shall follow in the
direction of the arrows
Schedule VI (contd.)
GAP-04 Position P1
GAP-05 Position P3
GAP-06 Positions P1 and
P2
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
85A
GAP-07 Positions P1 and P3
GAP-08 Positions P2 and P5
GAP-09 Positions P3 and P6
GAP-10 Position P4
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P1 and P3.  Traffic
shall follow in the direction of
the arrows
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P2 and P5.  Traffic
shall follow in the direction of
the arrows
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P3 and P6.  Traffic
shall follow in the direction of
the arrows
Alternative position of the Green
Arrow - P4.  Traffic shall follow
in the direction of the arrows
Schedule VI (contd.)

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
86A
GAP-11 Position P4
GAP-12 Positions P1 and P4
OMS-01 Overhead Light
Signals  at a 4 way
Junction
OMS-02 Overhead Light
Signals at a 3 way
Junction
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P4.  Traffic shall
follow in the direction of the
arrows
Alternative positions of the
Green Arrow - P1 and P4.
Traffic shall follow in the
direction of the arrows
Traffic shall follow the Green
Light Signal and the direction
of the arrow.
Traffic shall follow the Green
Light Signal and the directions
of the arrows.
(c) Overhead Mounted Traffic Light Signals
Schedule VI (contd.)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description


<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
87A
LSP-01 Light Signals for
Pedestrians
LSP-02 Alternative to LSP-01
LSP-03 Pedestrian operated
Light Signal
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Light Signals for pedestrians to
proceed after the “Green Man”
appears.
Light Signals for pedestrians to
proceed after the “Green Man”
appears.
To press the button and wait for
the change to Green to proceed /
cross, the road
(d) Light signals for Pedestrians
Schedule VI (contd.)


<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
88A
PDV-01
PDV-02
Prohibited distances at
intersections
PDV-03
PDV-04
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Prohibited or restricted distance
for parking at an intersection on
a major road and minor road.  25
metres for intersection on major
road and 10 metres for
intersection on minor road
Schedule VII
PROHIBITED DISTANCE FOR PARKING OF VEHICLES


<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
89A
PDV -05 Prohibited distance at
Bus Stops
PDV -06 Prohibited distance at
Bus Bays
PDV -07 Prohibited distance at
Pedestrian Crossings
PDV -08 Prohibited distance at
Signalized Intersections
PDV -09 Prohibited distance at
Pedestrian Operated
Traffic Signals
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Parking is prohibited or restricted
30 metres within the approach to
the Bus Stopping Place and 15
metres on the departure side to a
Bus Stopping Place.
Parking is prohibited or restricted
15 metres on the approach to the
bay and 10 metres from the
departure point of the bay.
Parking is prohibited or restricted
30 metres within the approach
and 15 metres on the departure
side of the crossing.
Parking is prohibited or restricted
50 metres to the approach side of
the light signal.
Parking is prohibited or restricted
30 metres to the approach side of
the light signal and 15 metres on
the departure side of the light
signal.
Schedule VII (contd.)


<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
90A
HSP-01 Traffic approaching
from the front to STOP
HSP-02 All traffic to STOP
HSP-03 Traffic approaching
both from front and
behind to STOP
HSP-04 Traffic from the right to
proceed
HSP-05 Traffic from the front to
proceed
HSP-06 Traffic from the left to
proceed
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
To direct the traffic approaching
from the front to stop
To direct all traffic to stop
To direct the traffic approaching
from both front and behind to
stop
To direct the traffic approaching
from the right to proceed
To direct the traffic approaching
from the front to proceed
To direct the traffic approaching
from the left to proceed
Schedule VIII
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS
All dimensions are in millimetres
(a)Hand signals - by Police Officers

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
91A
SDR-01 Turn right
SDR-02 Slow down or
stop
SDR-03 Turn left
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
To inform other road
users of the driver’s
intention to move to
the right or turn right
To inform other road
users of the driver’s
intention to slow down
or stop.  The signal is
particularly important
at Zebra crossing to let
other road users,
including pedestrians,
know that the driver is
slowing down or
stopping
To inform the other
road users of the
driver’s intention to
move to the left or turn
left.
(b) Signals by Drivers / Riders
Schedule VIII (contd.)


<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
92A
DIS-01 Turn right
DIS-02 Turn left
DIS-03 Slow down or
stop  (Brake
Light Signals)
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
To inform the other
road users of the
driver’s intention to
move to right or turn
right.
To indicate to other
road users of the
driver’s intention
move to the left or
turn left or stop on the
left.
To inform the other
road users of the
driver’s intention to
slow down or to stop.
(c) Direction Indicator Signals
Schedule VIII (contd.)


<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
93A
HWP-01 Explosive
HWP-02 Flammable gas
HWP-03 Flammable Liquid
HWP-04 Flammable Solid
HWP-05 Oxidizer
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Symbol (Exploding Bomb): Black
Background : Light orange with a
number 1.1 and 1
Symbol (Flame): white
Background : Red with a
number 2
Symbol (Flame): white
Background : Red with a
number 3
Background : White with vertical
red stripes with a number
Symbol (Flame over Circle): Black
Background : Yellow
Schedule IX
HAZARD - WARNING PLATES FIXED TO TRANSPORT VEHICLES


<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
94A
HWP-06 Infectious substance
HWP-07 Radioactive Substance
HWP-08 Corrosive
HWP-09 Miscellaneous
Sign No. Name of Sign Sign Description
Symbol (Three Crescents
Superimposed on a circle): Black
Background : White with a
number 6
Symbol (a circle surrounded by
three sectors) : Black
Background : upper half  yellow
lower white back ground with a
rectangle with a number 7
Symbol (Liquids, Spilling from
two glass vessels and attacking
a hand and a metal bar): Black
Background : Upper half white ;
lower half black with a number 8
Symbol (nil); Background : white
with upper half vertical black
stripes with a number 9
Schedule IX (contd.)


<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
95A
Category of Sign Code
Schedule 01 1. DANGER W ARINING SIGNS DWS
2. ADDITIONAL PANELS TO BE USED WITH DANGER WARINING SIGNS APD
Schedule 02 2. REGULATORY  SIGNS
(a) Prohibitory Signs PHS
(b) Restrictive Signs RSS
(c) Mandatory Signs MNS
(d) Priority Signs PRS
2. ADDITIONAL PANELS TO BE USED WITH REGULATORY SIGNS APR
Schedule 03 DIRECTIONAL INFORMATIVE SIGNS
(a) National Highways IS(NH)
(b) Provincial Roads IS(PR)
(c) Expressways IS(EX)
(d) Other Signs Useful For Drivers OSD
(e) Additional Panels To be Used with Directional Informative Signs API
(f) Route Number Signs RNS
Schedule 04 MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS MS
Schedule 05 ROAD MARKINGS RM
Schedule 06 TR AFFIC LIGHT SIGNALS
(a)  Alternative Positions of  Traffic Light Signals APS
(b) Green Arrow And Its Alternative Positions GAP
(c) Overhead Mounted Traffic Light Signals OMS
(d) Light signals for Pedestrians LSP
Schedule 07 PROHIBITED DISTANCE FOR PARKING OF VEHICLES PDV
Schedule 08 TR AFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS
(a) Hand signals - by Police Officers HSP
(b) Signals by Drivers / Riders SDR
(c) Direction Indicator Signals DIS
Schedule 09 HAZARD - WARNING PLATES FIXED TO TRANSPORT VEHICLES HWP

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
96A
TRAFFIC  SIGNS  &  MARKINGS
SCHEDULE TYPE FROM TO
I DWS 1 51
APD 1 4
II PHS 1 26
RSS 1 9
MNS 1 9
PRS 1 6
APR 1 14
III IS(NH) 1 11
IS(PR) 1 5
IS(EX) 1 7
OSD 1 25
RNS 1 4
API 1 3
IV M S 1 20
VR M 1 5 4
VI ALS 1 5
GAP 1 12
OMS 1 2
LSP 1 3
VII PDV 1 9
VIII HSP 1 6
SDR 1 3
DIS 1 3
IX HWP 1 7
T OT AL 298

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
97A
Schedule-I
Table 1
Details of Danger  Warning Signs
 Key dimension of Sign (mm) Colour of Components of Signs Size of Letters (mm) Size of Numerals (mm)
Length of a side
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Small Normal Large
(S) (N) (L)
Narrow streets Within and Expressways Width of Symbol Background Border Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
and low speed o utside built and similar Border
built up areas up areas highways
DWS-01 to  DWS-49 Square with one 400 600 900 S = 10 - - - - - - -
excluding DWS-26 diagonal vertical
N = 10    Black Yellow Black - - - -
L = 15 - - - - - - -
DWS-26 Square with one 400 600 900 S = 10 Top circle red. - - - - - -
diagonal vertical
N = 10 Mid circle amber. - - - - - -
L = 15 Bottom circle green Yellow Black - - - -
- The balance portion black - - - - - -
DWS-50 Symmetrical cross - Length=1200: - 50 - White Red - - - -
with pointed arms Width=60:
Angle=60°
DWS-51 Symmetrical cross with - Length=1200: - 50 - White Red - - - -
pointed arms and one Width=60:
v-shaped arm beneath Angle=60°
the cross
APD-01 Rectangle V aries 15 Black Yellow Black 60 80 70 90
APD-02 Rectangle V aries 15 Black Yellow Black 60 80 70 90
APD-03 Square 450x450 15 Black Yellow Black - - - -
APD-04 Rectangle Height= 220(Width= 490 15 Black Yellow Black 60 80 - -

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
98A
Schedule-----II
Table 2
Details of Regulatory Sign
Key documents of Sign (mm) Colour of Componments of Sign Size of Size of
Letters Numerals
(mm)  (mm)
Outer Diameter
Small Normal Large
(S) (N) (L)
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Narrow street Width Express Width of Width of Width
 Symbols, Back Border Oblique Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
and low and ways border oblique of band letters, ground band
speed outside and band /bar numerals
built up built similar
area up areas highways
PHS-01 to  PHS-07 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 S=40 Black White Red Red - - - -
  excluding PHS-06
N=60 N=50
L=75 L=60
PHS-06 & PHS-08 Circular 400 600 900 S = 10 S = 8 of 5 Grey White Black Grey lines - - - -
N = 10 N= 8 of 6
L = 15 L =  8 of 10
PHS-09 to  PHS-22 exduc Circular 400 600 900 S=50 S=40 Black White Red Red - - - -
(PHS-08 to PHS-10)
N=60 N=50
L=75 L=60
PHS-10 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 - - White Red - -- - -
N=60
L=75
PHS-23 & 24 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 S=40 - Blue Red Red - - - -
N=60 N=50
L=75 L=60

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
99A
PHS-25 & 26 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 S=40 White Blue Red Red - - - -
N=60 N=50
L=75 L=60
RSS-01 to RSS-09 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 - Black White Red Red - - - -
N=60
L=75
RSS-10 Circular 400 600 900 S = 10 S= 8 of 5 Grey White Black Grey - - - -
lines
N = 10 N= 8 of 6
L = 15 L= 8 of  10
MSN-01 to MSN-09 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 - Black White Red - - - - -
N=60
L=75
PRS-01 Regular Octagon 600 900 1200 S=30 - White Red White - -- - -
with 2 sided
horizontal N=40
L=55
PRS-02 Equilateral Triangle 600 900 1200 S=50 - - White Red - -- - -
with 1 sided
horizontal & oppo- N=75
site vertex below L = 100
Schedule-II
Table 2
Details of Regulatory Sign
Key documents of Sign (mm) Colour of Componments of Sign Size of Size of
Letters Numerals
(mm)  (mm)
Outer Diameter
Small Normal Large
(S) (N) (L)
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Narrow street Width Express Width of Width of Width
 Symbols, Back Border Oblique Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
and low and ways border oblique of band letters, ground band
speed outside and ban d/bar numerals
built up built similar
area up areas highways

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
100A
PRS-03 Square with 1 400 600 900 S=15 - S=40 Y ellow with White Black - --
diagonal black
vertical N=25 N=50 border
L=35 L=75
PRS-04 Square with 400 600 900 S=15 S=80 S=40 Y ellow with White Black Black - - - -
one diagonal black
vertial N=25 N=120 N=50 border
L=35 L=180 L=75
PRS-05 Circular 400 600 900 S=50 - - Upward White Red - -- - -
arrow-Red
N=60 Downward
arrow-Black
L=75
PRS-06 Rectangle Height=400 Height=600 Height=900 - - - Upward arrow Blue - - - - - -
Width=370 Width=550 Width=825 White Down
ward arrow-Red
APR-01 Rectangle V aries 15 Black White Red - 60 80 70 90
APR-02 Rectangle V aries 15 Black White Red - 60 80 70 90
APR-03 Rectangle Height = 310 : Width = 600 15 Black White Red - - - --
APR-04 Rectangle Height = 310 : Width = 780 15 Black White Red - - - - -
APR-05 Rectangle Height = 310 : Width = 600 15 Black White Red - - - - -
APR-06 Rectangle  Height = 570 : Width = 1050 15 Black White Red - 60 80 70 90
APR-07 Rectangle V aries 15 Black White Red - 60 80 - -
APR-08 Rectangle Height = 220 : Width = 490 15 Black White Red - 60 80 - -
APR-09 Rectangle Height = 680 : Width = 820 60 Black White Red - - - - -
APR-10 Rectangle Height = 550 : Width = 600 60 Black White Red - - - - -
APR-11 Rectangle Height = 580 : Width = 600 60 Black White Red - - - - -
APR-12 Rectangle Height = 600 : Width = 600 60 Black White Red - - - - -
APR-13 Rectangle Height = ---- : Width = ---- Black White Red - - - - -
APR-14 Rectangle   Height = 650 : Width = 1500 20 Black White Red
Schedule-II
Table 2
Details of Regulatory Sign
Key documents of Sign (mm) Colour of Componments of Sign Size of Size of
Letters Numerals
(mm)  (mm)
Outer Diameter
Small Normal Large
(S) (N) (L)
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Narrow street Width Express Width of Width of Width
 Symbols, Back Border Oblique Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
and low and ways border oblique of band letters, ground band
speed outside and ban d/bar numerals
built up built similar
area up areas highways

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
101A
Schedule - III
Table 3
Details of Advance Direction Signs
Key Dimensions of sign (mm) Colour of Components of sign Size of letters Size of Numerals
 (mm)   (mm)
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Dimension Width of Width of oblique Symbols, letters Background Border Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
border band/bar numerals size size size size
IS(NH)-01 to IS(NH) 03 Rectangle V ariable 30 White Green White 75 150 75 150
IS(NH)-04 to IS(NH)-06 Rectangle V ariable 30 - White Green White 175 300 - -
IS(NH)-07 to IS(NH)-08 Rectangle with V ariable 30 White Green White 75 150 75 150
pointed arrow on
1 side
IS(NH)-9 Rectangle V ariable 30 White Green White 75 150 75 150
IS(NH)-10 Rectangle V ariable 40 White Green White 75 150 - -
IS(NH)-11 Rectangle V ariable 40 100 White Green White 75 150 - -
IS(PR)-01 to IS(PR)-05 Rectangle V ariable 30 - Black White Black 75 150 75 150
excluding
IS(PR)-04
IS(PR)-04 Rectangle with V ariable 30 - Black White Black 75 150 75 150
pointed arrow on
1 side
IS(EX)-01 and  IS(EX)-02 Rectangle V ariable 40 - White Blue White 150 200 150 200
IS(EX)-03 to IS(EX)-05 Rectangle V ariable 50 - White Blue White 175 300 175 300
IS(EX)-06 Rectangle Hight-400 : 40 - White Blue White - 400 - -
Width : 2400
IS(EX)-07 Rectangle V ariable 40 - White Blue White 150 200 150 200
OSD-01 Square with an inset Square-600x600 : -- Black symbol in a Blue - - - - -
of upright equilateral Triangle-400 white t riangular
triangle with one side - - insert
horizontal
OSD-02, OSD-04 and OSD-05 Square 450x450 - - White Blue - -- - -
OSD-03 Square 600x600 - - Cross-Red-Bed White Blue - -- - -
OSD-06 Rectangle with a Rectangle Black symbol in a Blue - -- - -
square inset 600 x 300 white square insert
Square
300 x 300 -

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
102A
OSD-07 Rectangle Height-825 : Width-75 0 - - White Blue - -- - -
OSD-08 Rectangle Height-825 : Width-750 - 100 (red) White Blue - -- - -
OSD-09, OSD-11 and OSD-13 Rectangle Height-600 : Width-400 - - White Blue - -- - -
OSD-10 and OSD-12 Rectangle Height-600 : Width-400 - 100 (red) White Blue - -- - -
OSD-14 and OSD-15 Square 600x600 - - White Blue - -- - -
OSD-16 Rectangle Height-900 or 1200 15 or 20 - White Blue - -- - -
Width-600 or 900
OSD-17 Rectangle Height-900 or 1200 15 or 20 100 or 150 - -- - -
Width-600 or 900
OSD-18 to OSD-25 Square 600 x 600 100 - Black White - -- - -
RNS-01 Rectangle  Height = 250 or 350 10 - White Green White 100 200 100 200
Width = Variable
RNS-02 Rectangle Height = 225 or 350 10 - White Green White 75 200 75 200
Width = Variable
RNS-03 Rectangle  Height = 200 or 300 10 - White Green White 75 150 75 150
Width = Variable
RNS-04 Rectangle  Height = 350 or 450 15 - White Blue White 200 300 200 300
Width = Variable
API-01 Rectangle V ariable 15 White Blue White 60 80 70 90
API-02 Rectangle V ariable 15 White Blue White 60 80 70 90
API-03 Rectangle Height=220 : Width=600 15 White Blue White - - 60 80
Schedule - III
Table 3
Details of Advance Direction Signs
Key Dimensions of sign (mm) Colour of Components of sign Size of letters Size of Numerals
 (mm)   (mm)
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Dimension Width of Width of oblique Symbols, letters Background Border Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
border band/bar numerals size size size size

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015
103A
Schedule ----- IV
Table 4
Details of Miscellaneous Signs
     Key Dimensions of sign Colour of Components of sign Size of letters Size of Numerals
 (mm) (mm) (mm)
No. of Sign Shape of Sign Dimension Width of Width of Symbols, letters Back- Border Minimum Maximum Maximum  Maximum
border oblique numerals ground
band/bar
 MS-01, MS-02 and Rectangle L -500 or 1"000 B-300 - - Alternate black and - - - - - -
MS-04 or  400 S-150 or 200 Yellow bands
 MS-03 Rectangle W idth-410,Yellow bands - - Alternate black and
-340Balck strips  -360 Yellow bands
 MS-05 Rectangle H eight-620 Width-600 - - Alternate red and
white bands
11-796
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.