

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2118$41 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'04'09
No. 2118/41 -  TUESDAY  APRIL  09,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  4474—20  (04/2019)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SOUTHERN   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute of Agriculture bearing No. 03 of 2019 under the Southern Provincial Council
I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water
Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial
Council hereby inform to the General Public that the Statute of Agriculture No. 03 of 2019 which had already been
approved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approval made dated 26.03.2019
by the Southern Provincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.
U
DALAMATHTHA  G AMAGE D AY AW ANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation,
Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade &
Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial Council
4th Floor, Dakshinapaya,
Labuduwa,
Galle,
At the Minister’s Office,
Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province,
Dated 01st April, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
2A
Concise name and
the date effective
Establishment of
the Department of
Agriculture
Appointing the
Head of the
Department
THE  AGRICULTURAL  PRECEPT  OF   THE  SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
A Precept for the benefit of the farming community in the Southern Province, with the intention of
uplifting the agricultural and allied products, do device and implement plans for the development of
agriculture within the purview of the Southern Provincial Council, by establishing a Provincial Department
of Agriculture, by forming voluntary committees comprising, persons engage in agriculture, by
determining the powers and functions of such committees and by providing ways and means for related
events. This precept is consistent with the Agricultural Ordinance (of Authority 441).
1. This Precept will be known as the Agriculture Precept of the Southern Provincial Council and
will come into effect from the day it is sanctioned by the Governor of Southern Province.
SECTION   I
Southern Provincial Agriculture Department
2. For the benefit of the farming community in the Southern Province and with the intention of
uplifting the agricultural and allied products, a Southern Provincial Agriculture Department
(Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Department’) will be established in the Southern Province.
3. In order to exercise the powers bestowed upon this department established under this precept,
a Director, under the name and title of Southern Provincial Agriculture Director (Hereinafter
referred to as the ‘Director”) will be appointed and he/she will be the Head of the Department
established under this article 2. This Director should be a Grade I officer of the Sri Lanka
Agriculture Service.
4. (1) This department will have powers, to appoint and additional Provincial Agriculture Director,
two Deputy Provincial Agriculture Directors, Deputy Provincial Directors for the districts.
Assistant Directors in charge of regions and training institutions and Agriculture
Instructors in charge of technical services, Program Assistants-Agriculture, Development
Assistants - Agriculture and, to appoint any other staff that the Department may feel
necessary, for the efficient management and administration of the affairs of the department.
(2) In the event where officers of the Government Services are required to be appointed to
the department, to maintain the required standard of management and for better
coordination of affairs, the department has powers to make such appointments with the
concurrence of the secretary of the relevant line Ministry.
5. All the appointments, including that of the Director under Article 4 of this precept, are relevant
to the provisions of article 32 of the 1987 Provincial Council Act, No. 42
6. The Department is allowed to establish institutions at the provincial, district, Pradeshsiya and
Village levels to achieve its objectives, with the permission of the Secretary to the Ministry.
SECTION II
The Purpose of the Department, It’s objectives and Duties
7. The purpose of the Department is to be the principal contributor to the Gross National Product
of the country by rendering all arable land in the Southern Province to be cultivated with
agricultural crops in propagating food production and in making a contribution to the sustainable
food production.
Appointing the
staff
Establishing Sub
offices with the
approval of the
Secretary
The purpose of
the Department

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
8. The objectives of the department.
(a) The proper execution of the agricultural extension works and the training activities related
thereto.
(b) The planning, executing, supervision and monitoring all agricultural development extension
activity initiated under the advice of the Minister and to manage such development activity
and programs by bringing those under media supervision.
(c) The conducting of soil conservation work connected to the agricultural lands of the area,
the elimination of losses due to pest and other fungal infections of varied agricultural
crops and to establish and activate units based on existing agriculture extension offices,
to control pests, fungal infections and to prevent the spread of fungal infections in the
area.
(d) The maintenance, improvement and development of existing training centres with the
view of providing the required training and acclimatisation to the farmers engaged in
agricultural pursuits in the area and the preparation of plans to improve their skills and
apprenticeships, deploying modern technical knowledge.
(e) Establishing and supervision of village agriculture societies under the guidance and
supervision of area agricultural instructors and registering such societies under the
Ministry of Agriculture.
(f) Executing programs to encourage and develop voluntary youth participation in the
agriculture activity and the registration of voluntary youth farmer societies associated
with such work and managing such societies providing constitutional provisions necessary
for their activation.
(g) Ensure that the execution of varied agricultural programs initiated in the area are conducted
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Ministry or a person delegated with due
authority by the Secretary and also ensure that those are subjected to the due technical
interventions by the Ministry.
(h) Work towards obtaining monetary and material contributions from local and foreign
sources in the accomplishment of department’s responsibilities subject to the limits of
existing documented legal frame work.
(i) Execute required programs to ensure that the department staff is provided with facilities
to equip themselves with modern knowledge and to horn their skills abreast of the times.
(j) Install a task evaluation system to assess the quality of services provided by the officers
of the department and their expenditius execution with the view of improving the qualitative
standard of the services rendered to the public by the department.
(k) Collect data and information on persons and organizations engaged in agricultural activity
in the area and to maintain an Agricultural information centre for the benefit of agriculture.
(l) Engage in any other activity that will help patronize the above objectives.
9. The powers, objectives and duties of the Director.
(a) To carry out the duties entrusted in line with the objectives of the Department.
The Objectives of
the Department
The directors
powers/objectives
& duties

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
4A
(b) To grant the required approval when cultivations and crops that are not endemic to the
Southern Province are being established in the province.
(c) To inspect, or to appoint a person with delegated authority to inspect, any agricultural
farm, Government of Private, in the area after having issued suitable notice of such
inspection.
(d) In the event where an entrepreneur of the area is producing organic fertilizer for
commercial purposes to register such entrepreneur having considered the quality of such
fertilizer.
(e) To issue and publish directives and methodology and to make Gazette notification from
time to time, with regard to the issue of agricultural chemicals in a context where
agricultural chemicals are issued by certain vendors without written requests from
agricultural instructors.
(f) To decide on all agricultural development activity conducted in the area.
(g) To delegate authority to the Agricultural instructors to inspect and report on the cultivation
of inappropriate crops in the area.
(h) To register voluntary Agricultural Development Organizations and to cancel such
registrations when so registered organisations act contrary to the declared objectives of
the precept and are engaged in irregular activity.
SECTION III
Voluntary Organizations for Agricultural Development
10.
(a) The formation of voluntary organizations of farmers, by farmers engaged in agricultural
activity is permitted, and such organizations could carry a name of their choosing.
(b) The Director should formulate a common and standard constitution on regulate the
voluntary agricultural organizations.
(c) These voluntary agricultural organizations could be established at village, Pradeshiya,
District and Provincial levels
SECTION   IV
Provincial Advisory Committees
11.
(1) An Advisory Committee should be appointed to advise the Minister, on, an agricultural
matter or matters initiated by the Minister.
(2) The Provincial Advisory Committee should comprise of the following persons :
Establishing
V oluntary
Agricultural
Organizations
Establishing the
Provincial
Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
(a) Persons appointed by virtue of their office
(I) The Secretary to the Provincial Minister
(II) the Director of Agriculture for the Southern Province.
(b) Four appointees appointed by the Minister who possess specialized knowledge in
agriculture and who also possess a post graduate degree or an equivalent or higher
academic qualification and one other person who is a member of a registered
agricultural organization holding office in a District Agricultural board of the area,
also appointed by the Minister.
(3) The Secretary to the Ministry should be the Chairman of the Committee.
(4) The Director of Agriculture should be the Secretary of the Committee.
(5) A remuneration for the members of the Advisory Committee could be arranged with the
approval with the Minister and in concurrence with the Provincial Minister of Finance.
(6) Every member of the committee should continue to serve the committee for two full
years, unless the service is ended due to death, resignation or removal from office and
the member is entitled for consideration to be re-appointed to office unless the member
is removed from the Committee.
(7) Members who are  appointed to the advisory committee, by virtue of their office should
continue to be members as long as they hold such office.
(8) In the event where a vacancy arises in the committee due to death, resignation or removal
of an appointed member, the Minister may appoint an alternate member to replace that
member. A member appointed under such circumstances may continue to be a member of
the committee for the balance period that his predecessor left unserved.
(9) In a situation where a member of the committee absents him/her self for a temporary
period of time due to sickness or been away from the country, the Minister may appoint
another person to serve in the committee during that period of absence of the permanent
member.
(10) The Minister may remove a member appointed after having forwarded reasons for such
removal.
(11) An appointed member may resign from the committee at any time, by informing the
Minister of the  fact that he is resigning from the committee by a written intimation sent
through registered post.
12. (1) The advisory committee should meet at least once in every two months or that many time
that it is required to meet, in order to accomplish the tasks, set by the precept.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the committee shall be three members.
(3) It is the responsibility of the Committee Secretary to ensure that the minutes of the
committee meetings are received by the Minister and the members of the committee.
The meetings

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
6A
(4) The procedure of work with regard to committee meetings and workings during the meetings
of the advisory committee, should be regularised by the committee itself, subject to the
other provisions of the Precept.
SECTION   V
General Provisions
13. The monies for the expenses incurred by the Department and the institutions established under
the department, in the performance of  their duties and tasks under this precept, should be made
available from the monies of the Provincial Council Fund.
14. If the Director, or a person authorized by the director in writing, requests certain items of
information, for the furtherance of the objectives of this precept, at any time, from any person
of institution, it shall be the responsibility of that institution or person to provide the requested
information to the director of person authorized by the director.
15. (1) The Director should submit an annual administrative report to the Minister every year,
within four months of the lapse of that year, detailing the manner in which agricultural
activities were carried out, the problems that arose during the course of such activity, the
solutions offered an any other activity material to the pursuit of the subject of agriculture.
(2) The Administrative report submitted as per clause (1) above should be tabled at the
Provincial Council by the Minister within a reasonable time.
16. The Minister may issue, special or general directives in writing to the department on the exercise
powers by the department, and the department should execute those directives.
17. (1) The Minister may, under this precept, institute directions with regard to the following
matters or on any other matter relevant to the objectives of the precept :
(a) In formulating conditions relevant to registration of Organic fertilizer manufactures.
(b) In formulating conditions relevant to the registration of V oluntary Agricultural
Development Organization and in specifying the specimen forms used in registration.
(c) On any other matter that falls within the purview of this precept.
(2) All directions formulated and issued by the Minister should be published in the Gazette
notification and shall be effective, either from the date of such publication or from the
date mentioned as the effective date in the publication.
(3) All directions formulated under clause (1) above, should be forwarded to the Provincial
Council for approval after their publication in the Gazette notification and in the event
where any such direction fails to gain approval, that direction should be considered as
rescinded from the date of such rejection without any adverse effect on actions initiated
as per that direction prior to the date of such rejection.
(4) The date on which such directions are rescinded should be published in the Gazette
notification.
18. The following items/activity are an offence under this precept :
Finances
The power to
obtain information
relevant to
Agriculture within
the Province
Annual
Administrative
Report
Power to issue
Directives
Directions
Offences &
Penalties

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.04.2019
(1) The misappropriation of agricultural aid or equipment granted by the Government or the
Provincial Council, for the purpose of agricultural development and the disposal of, or
rendering of, those to be used by a third party without the knowledge of the Director ;
(2) Acting in contravention of the directives issued by the Director on agricultural pursuits ;
(3) Acting in hindrance to any officer during the course of exercising power under this Precept
by any officer or person.
(4) Disobeying the orders issued by the Director or Assistant Director in charge of the area,
on an agricultural issue, in preventing the spread at national or provincial scale, of a
calamitous situation cause to  agriculture due to biological or chemical reasons.
(5) To act deliberately or otherwise is propagating seeds or pesticides foreign to the Southern
Province in a manner inimical to the legitimate crops cultivated in the province.
(6) (1) To activate or accomplish agricultural projects or activity that does not meet with
the Directors concurrence.
(2) Those who are  alleged to have committed one or more of the above offenses,
having found guilty at a summary trial conducted by a Magistrate, should be penalized
either by a fine of not less than rupees ten thousand or a term of imprisonment not
exceeding six months or by one of the methods mentioned, or should be subjected
to both, a fine and a term of imprisonment.
19. Unless an alternative interpretation is necessitated in the terms used in this Precept, the term :
“Provincial Council” should mean the Southern Province or Provincial Council,
“Minister” should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Agriculture in the Southern
Provincial Council,
“Secretary” should mean the Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture in the Southern
Province,
“Agricultural land” should mean a land that could be used for cultivation of paddy, private
land that could be put to agricultural use or lands that have been dispossessed under the
Land Development Ordinance, the Government Land Ordinance or any other Act,
“Inappropriate crops” should mean crops not recommended to the area and crops that are
not permitted by Law,
“Pests” should mean any form of life, that may prevent the growth of an agricultural crop or
causes to adversely affect its good health and productivity of that crop.
“Province” should mean the Southern Province.
20. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of
this Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.
04 - 889
Definitions
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.