

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2336$66 - 2023 cqks ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2023.06.16
No. 2336/66  -  friday,   juNe  16,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6353 - 16 (06/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                                                                                                                         statutory determination No. 4646
                                                                                                                         unique No. : Male/35
STATuTORY  DETERmINATION  uNDER  SECTION 19 Of  LAND  REfORm 
LAw  No. 1  Of  1972
whereas a statutory declaration under section 18 of the Law has been made by Mr. ibrahim saibu Thajudeen of 
wahakotte, ellamalpotha, Matale, the Land reform Commission by virtue of the Powers vested in it under section 19 of the 
Law, has made a statutory determination for his estate as he has passed away as of now, specifying the portion of agricultural 
Land owned by the statutory lessee which he shall be allowed to retain. The agricultural land so allowed to be retained by 
the statutoty lessee is described in the schedule below.
 NilaNtha WijesiNghe, attorney -at -Law,
 Chairman,
 Land reform Commission.
No. 475,
Kaduwela road,
Battaramulla,
On the15th day of june, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'06'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.06.2023
2a
 
Schedule
 i.  an allotment of land bearing Lot No.15 B in extent of 01 acre, 1 rood, 22 Perches of the land called 
Minihompitiyahena depicted in the final Village Plan No.86 prepared by the surveyor General, situated in the 
village called Yatiwehera in Udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division 
of Galewela in the district of Matale, Central Province, together with the buildings and plantations thereon; and
 ii. an allotment of land bearing Lot No.56 in extent of 00 acre, 1 rood, 21 Perches of the land called harathapalliye 
Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan No.84, supplementary No. 1 prepared by the surveyor General, 
situated in the village called hewanewela sinhalabage in udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor division in the divisional 
Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, Central Province, together with the buildings and 
plantations thereon; and
 iii. allotments of land bearing Lot Nos. 124,125 in extent of 01 acre, 1 rood, 28 Perches of the land called 
Puswelagawahena and weralugahamula Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan No.85, supplementary No.l 
prepared by the surveyor General, situated in the village called Oligama in udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor division 
in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, Central Province, together with 
the buildings and plantations thereon; and
 iV . an undivided extent of 00 acre, 0 rood, 19 Perches of the allotment of land bearing Lot No.45 of the land 
called wedahitigalahena depicted in the final Village Plan No.86, supplementary No.l prepared by the surveyor 
General, situated in the village called yatiwehera in udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor division in the divisional 
Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, Central Province, together with the buildings and 
plantations thereon; and
 V . an undivided extent of 01 acre, 2 rood. 15 Perches of the allotments of land bearing Lot Nos. 19,20,21 of the lands 
called Galagawahena and dambagahamula watte depicted in the final Village Plan No.88, supplementary No.l 
prepared by the surveyor General, situated in the village called Miriskuttawa in udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor 
Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, Central Province, 
together with the buildings and plantations thereon; and
 Vi. an undivided extent of 00 acre, 2 rood, 35 Perches of the allotments of land bearing Lot Nos. 103,104,106 of the 
lands called ambagahamula watte and Kendagaswatte and Medawela Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan 
No.92, supplementary No.l prepared by the surveyor General, situated in the village called Mahawatte in udugoda 
Pallesiya Pattu Minor Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, 
Central Province, together with the buildings and plantations thereon; and
 Vii. an allotment of land bearing Lot No. 105 in extent of 04 acres, 0 rood, 28 Perches of the land called Polkumbura 
wela, Polkumbura wela Pillewa depicted in the final Village Plan No.92, supplementary No.l prepared by the 
surveyor General, situated in the village called Mahawatte in udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor division in the 
Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, Central Province, together with the 
buildings and plantations thereon; and
 Viii. an allotment of land bearing Lot No. 335 in extent of 00 acre, 1 rood, 27 Perches of the land called siyambalagamuwe 
Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan No.94, supplementary No.3 prepared by the surveyor General, situated 
in the village called Lanewala in Udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s 
division of Galewela in the district of Matale, Central Province, together with the buildings and plantations 
thereon; and
 iX. an allotment of land bearing Lot No. 219 in extent of 00 acre. 1 rood, 16 Perches of the land called ambagahamula 
Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan No.95, supplementary No.2 prepared by the surveyor General, situated 
in the village called Nirangomuwa in Udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s 
division of Galewela in the district of Matale, Central Province, together with the buildings and plantations 
thereon; and

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'06'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.06.2023
3a
PRiNteD at the DePaRtMeNt OF gOVeRNMeNt PRiNtiNg,  sRi laNKa.
 Schedule (Contd.)
 
 X. an allotment of land bearing Lot No. 649 in extent of 22 acres, 1 rood, 19 Perches of the land called Maloya 
Mookalana (High Jungle) depicted in the final Village Plan No.97, supplementary No.2 prepared by the surveyor 
General, situated in the village called siyambalagahawela in udugoda Pallesiya Pattu Minor division in the 
Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Galewela in the District of Matale, Central Province, together with the 
buildings and plantations thereon; and  
 Xi. an allotment of land bearing Lot No. 14 in extent of 00 acre, 2 rood, 05 Perches of the land called dalupothayaya 
Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan No.344, supplementary No.2 prepared by the surveyor General, situated 
in the village called Hathamuna in Kandapalla Korale Minor Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division 
of Galewela in the district of Matale, Central Province, together with the buildings and plantations thereon; and
 Xii. an allotment of land bearing Lot No.61 in extent of 08 acres, 0 rood, 23 Perches of the land called ambanpola 
Kumbura depicted in the final Village Plan No.2736, supplementary No.2 prepared by the surveyor General, 
situated in the village called Ambagahalanda in Hetahaye Korale Minor Division in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s 
division of ibbagamuwa in the district of Kurunegala, North western Province, together with the buildings and 
plantations thereon.
eOG 06 - 0126