

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1945$19 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 15 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2015'12'15
No. 1945/19  -  TUESDAY   DECEMBER  15,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B 6/2001.
REGULATION   OF  INSURANCE  INDUSTRY  ACT,  No.  43  OF  2000
RULES made by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka under Section 105 read with Section 26(1) of the Regulation of
Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000.
Chairperson,
Insurance Board of Sri Lanka,
(Signed for an on behalf of the
Insurance Board of Sri Lanka).
Colombo,
14th December 2015.
Rules
PART I
Application
1. These Rules may be cited as the Solvency Margin (Risk Based Capital) Rules 2015.
2. These rules shall apply to every insurer registered under the Act, with effect from January 1, 2016.
PART II
Required Financial Resources
3. Every insurer shall, with effect from January 1, 2016, maintain a Capital Adequacy Ratio (hereinafter referred
to as the “CAR”) of a minimum of 120%.
4. Every insurer shall, with effect from January 1, 2016, maintain a Total Available Capital (hereinafter referred to
as “TAC”) of a minimum of rupees Five Hundred million.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
2A
5. (1) Every insurer shall, taking into consideration the nature, size, and complexity of its insurance business and
the risk to which it is exposed, without prejudice to rule 3 and 4 maintain a prudent CAR and adequate TAC.
(2) Every insurer shall have, in order to comply with the provision of paragraph (1), adequate risk management
systems with strategies, processes, and reporting procedures appropriate to identify, measure, monitor, and report, on a
continuous basis, the risks to which the insurer is or could be exposed, and their interdependencies.
6.  (1) Every insurer shall, taking into consideration the nature, size, and complexity of its insurance business, and
the risks to which it is exposed, value its assets and liabilties including policy liabilities under these rules at least quart erly
during the year.
(2) Every insurer shall inform the Board the basis of, and justification for, material discretionary decisions
taken by the insurer under these rules, including decision on assumptions, adjustments, internal models, time periods,
methods and techniques, either in notes to its quarterly reports, or otherwise, within a reasonable period after the decision
has been taken.
7. (1) Every insurer shall inform the Board of its compliance with these rules, in the form, manner and during such
period as the Board may specify in that behalf.
(2) The Board may require such insurer to provide supporting documents on the compliance certification from
an independent actuary or other skilled person, whose qualifications may be specified by the Board, at the cost of the
insurer.
8. (1) Where an insurer has reasonable reasons to believe that such insurer is or is likely to be, in breach of rule 3,
4 or 5, such insurer shall report the breach or likely breach to its board of directors and to the Board as soon as possible.
(2) Where in the opinion of the Board, an insurer has failed, or is likely to fail, to comply with rule 3, 4 and 5 as
aforesaid the Board may require such insurer to provide a plan to restore its financial position, in the form and manner that
the Board may specify in that behalf.
(3) The Board may require the insurer to provide a supporting opinion on the plan from an independent actuary
or other skilled person, whose qualifications may be specified by the Board, at the cost of such insurer.
PART III
Determination of TAC and CAR
9. Subject to the provisions of rule 13, TAC is the total of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital of an insurer, minus the deductions
required by rule 12.
10. Tier 1 capital comprises :
(a) issued and fully paid up ordinary shares and share premiums ;
(b) capital reserves ;
(c) paid up non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares ;
(d) adjusted retained earnings or accumulated losses taking into account ;
(i) adjustments for available for sale reserves that may be required or permitted under Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards (adjusted for fair value losses)
(ii) adjustments for differences in asset or liability values between the values calculated under these
Rules and those calculated under Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (whether positive or negative) ;
(iii) any other fair value losses (not already captured in (i) and (ii) above) ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
3A
(e) unallocated valuation surplus in the long term insurance fund, that is, surplus that has not yet been allocated
between policyholders and shareholders ; and
(f) in the case of long term insurance business, 50% of potential future bonuses projected for participating policies,
determined as the maximum of ;
(i) zero ; and
(ii) the difference between the guaranteed benefits liabilities and the total benefits liabilities calculated
in accordance with rule 34 (participating policieis) net of reinsurance.
11. Tier 2 capital comprises :
(a) cumulative irredeemable preference shares ;
(b) redeemable preference shares ;
(c) mandatory capital loan stock and other similar capital instruments ;
(d) revaluation reserves for self-occupied properties and other property investments ;
(e) revenue reserves, excluding retained earnings ;
(f) irredeemable subordinated debt ; and
(g) subordinated debt that :
(i) has a minimum five year term,
(ii) is unsecured ; and
(iii) is subject to a lock-in clause precluding payment of either interest or principal (even at maturity)
if the payment would cause the insurer’s CAR to fall, or remain, below capital adequacy ratio
specified in rule 3 (hereinafter referred to as “RCAR”)
12.  In determining TAC, insurers shall deduct from the total of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital :-
(a) goodwill and other intangible assets, including capitalised expenditure ;
(b) inadmissible land, building, other immovable property, plant, and equipment ;
(c) inadmissible loans and advances, except agent balances and staff loans ;
(d) deferred income tax assets ;
(e) prepayments ;
(f) inventory ;
(g) tax receivables ;
(h) assets pledged to support credit facilities ;
(i) claims receivable under policies held by an insurer for it own benefit (except reinsurance policies) ;
(j) claims receivable under contract of co-insurance ;
(k) investments in shares that do not fall within a category of asset listed in Column 1 of Table 1 ;
(l) investments in related parties that are prudentially regulated financial institutions ;
(m) investments in related parties that are not listed on a licensed stock exchange ;
(n) positive net amounts receivable from a reinsurer, overdue for more than six months after setting off
against any amounts due to the reinsurer ; and
(o) inadmissible mortgage loans in case of General Insurance Business.
13.  In determing TAC, Tier 2 capital shall  not exceed 50% of Tier 1 capital
14.  Every insurer shall determine CAR using the following formula:
CAR = (TAC/RCR)x100
where RCR is determined in accordance with the rules in Part VII.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
4A
PART IV
Admissible assets, asset limits, and asset valuation.
15. (1) For the purpose of determining CAR, the assets in the categories listed in the first column of table 1 are
permitted (hereinafter referred to as “admissible assets”) up to the maximum percentage limit of the total vaule of an
insurer’s admissible assets (including admissible assets in shareholders’ funds), and subject to any overall-or sub-limits,
specified in the second column.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) and notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) ; if
(a) debt securities ;
(b) corporate debt issued by a bank ;
(c) corporate debt issued by a company ;
(d) asset backed securities ; or
(e) interest bearing deposits with a bank or finance company.
were issued,
(A) outside Sri Lanka or by an entity established outside Sri Lanka, the assets are admissible only if the asset
or entity, as the case may be, carries a credit rating (hereinafter referred to as the “Investment grade
rating”) assigned in the eighteen month period preceding the valuation date, that is not lower than :
(i) the rating specified for the related credit rating agency in Part A of the Schedule hereto ; or
(ii) an equivalent rating from a credit rating agency approved by the Board ; or
(B) in Sri Lanka or by a company, established in Sri Lanka the assets are admissible only if the asset or company,
as the case may be, carries an investment grade rating, assigned in the eighteen month period preceding the
valuation date, that is no lower than :-
(i) the rating specified for the related credit rating agency in Part B of the Schedule hereto ; or
(ii) an equivalent rating from creidt rating agency registered under the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) does not apply to investments in related parties, or to unlisted equity and
corporate debt held in shareholders’ funds.
Table 1:
Admissible assets and limits
Admissible asset category Maximum percentage
(a) (i) Government securities issued by Central Bank of Sri Lanka
(ii) Debt Securities fully guaranteed by Government of Sri Lanka
(b)  Debt securities :
(i) issued or fully guaranteed by a foreign government or a central
bank of a foreign country, and
(ii) carrying an investment grade rating to the instrument
100%
20%

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
5A
(c) Ordinary shares of a company (that is not a related party) listed
on a licensed stock exchange
(d) Corporate debt (including bonds, debentures, commercial
papers and similar financial instruments) issued by a licensed
commercial bank or a licensed specialised bank (that is not a
related party) and
(i) carrying an investment grade rating to the instrument, or
(ii) Backed by guarantee issued by a licensed commercial bank
or a licensed specialized bank carrying an investment grade
rating (that is not a related party), or
(iii) Backed by a guarantee issued by a multilateral agency
(e) Corporate debt (that is not related party debt) (including  bonds,
debentures, commercial papers, and similar financial
instruments) listed on licensed stock exchange
(f) Corporate debt (that is not related party debt) (including bonds,
debentures, commercial papers, and similar financial
instruments) :
(i)  issued by a company ; and
(ii)  carrying an investment grade rating to the instrument
(g) Asset backed securites (except securities issued or guaranteed
by a related party) ;
(i) where the capital and interest or the maturity value, as the
case may be, is fully guaranteed by a licensed commercial
bank or a licensed specialised bank carrying an investment
grade rating ; or
(ii) that are issued by a company listed on a licensed stock
exchange, and carrying an investment grade rating to the
instrument.
(h) Interest bearing deposits with a licensed commercial bank or a
licensed specialised bank carrying an investment grade rating
(i)  Interest bearing deposits with a licensed finance company;
(i) listed on a licensed stock exchange ; and
(ii) carrying and investment grade rating
(j) Other cash and cash equivalents, not included in other asset
categories in this Table, subject to any restrictions that may be
imposed by the Board
For general insurance business, 30%
For long term insurance business 40%
For general insurance business, 60%, subject
to an overall limit of 60% for corporate debt in
(d), (e), (f), and (g) of Table 1
For long term insurance business, 50%
subject to an overall limit of 50% for
corporate debt in (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Table 1
10%, subject to an overall limits of 60% or 50%,
as the case may be, for corporate debt in (d),
(e), (f), and (g) of Table 1
10%, subject to an overall limit of 60% or 50%,
as the case may be, for corporate debt in (d),
(e), (f), and (g) of Table 1
10%, subject to an overall limit of 60% or 50%,
as the case may be, for corporate debt in (d),
(e), (f), and (g) of Table 1
40%, subject to an overall limit of 40% for
interest bearing deposits in (h) and (i) of
Table 1
10%, subject to an overall limit of 40% for
interest bearing deposits in (h) and (i) of
Table 1
4%
Table 1:
Admissible assets and limits  (contd.)

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
6A
(k) Freehold land and buildings occupied by the insurer
 (l) Freehold land and buildings held for investment purposes
 (m) Investments in related parties, which parties are listed on a
licensed stock exchange, except prudentially regulated financial
institutions
(n) Unlisted shares and corporate debt investments (except
investments in related parties) - held in shareholders’ funds
(o) Unrated corporate debt investments - held in shareholders’ funds
(p) Unit trusts and mutual funds
(q) Gold kept in safe custody in a licensed commercial bank or
a licensed specialised bank
(r) Positive net amounts receivable from reinsurers for no longer
than 6 months, after setting-off amounts due from the insurer to
the reinsurer
(s) For long term insurance buisness, outstanding policy loans that
do not exceed the surrender value of the policy
(t) For long term insurance business, accrued premium (or premium
installment) oustanding for no longer than the shorter of thirty
days or the period within which the premium shall be paid under
the policy
(u) For general insurance business, accrued permium outstanding
for no longer than sixty days from the inception of the policy
(v) For general insurance business, mortgage loans on immovable
property approved by the Board as at 31.12.2010
For general insurance business, 10%
For long term insurance business, 15%
For general insurance business, 10%
For long term insurance business, 15%
7.5%  But no single exposure may exceed 5%
5%
5%
25%
20%
100%
100%
100%
100%
20%, but no single exposure may exceed 80%
of the vaule of the security, based on strict
valuation rules (and any excess shall be
deducted from TAC)
16. If all the  assets in a particular asset category in column 1 of Table 1, taken together exceed the related admissibility
limits in Column 2, insurers shall ;
(a) unless the provisions of paragraph (b) applies, progressively exclude the assets with the lowest credit rating
until the limit is reached ; or
(b) in an asset category where the assets are not rated, progressively exclude the assets with the highest risk
profile, and the excluded assets, or part assets, are not admissible assets.
17. Notwithstanding the provions of rule 15(2), assets located outside Sri Lanka are not admissible assets unless the
insurer has obtained the permission of the Board under Section 25(3) of the Act.
Table 1:
Admissible assets and limits  (contd.)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
7A
18. Encumbered assets are not admissible and the corresponding liabilities with regard to encumbered assets shall
not be taken into account in calculating CAR.
19. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), for the purpose of calculating CAR, insurers shall value
admissible assests in the categories listed in Column 1 of the Table 2 using a market consistent approach in accordance
with the related valuation principles in Column 2.
(2) Every insurer shall value assets that are not in a category listed in Column I of Table 2 using a market
consistant approach or, if a market consistent approach cannot reasonably be applied, using Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Table 2 :
V aluation of Assets
Asset Category (as in Table 1) V aluation principles
(a) Government secrurities issued by Central
Bank of Sri Lanka and Debt Securities fully
guaranteed by Government of Sri Lanka
(b) Debt securities
(c) Ordinary shares of company
(d) Corporate debt
(e) Asset backed securities
(f) Interest bearing deposits
(g) Other cash and cash equivalents
(h) Freehold land and buildings
(i) Investments in related parties
(j) Unlisted equity and corporate debt - held
in shareholders’ funds
1. Most recent average buying price quoted by primary market
dealers provided in the weekly economic indicators published
by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ; or
2. If the most recent market price in not available, the estimated
realizable value.
Most recent published buying price certified and issued by the issuer
or guarantor
Prevailing market price as per the last traded stock on the Colombo
Stock Exchange
If quoted - prevailing market price as per the last traded stock on
the Colombo Stock Exchange
If unquoted - net realisable value, taking into account the prevailing
interest rate scenario and expected cash flows from the debt
As for other corporate debt above
Value of the deposit including accrued interest
Actual amount
Realisable value, based on an estimate by a qualified property valuer
approved by the Board
If quoted - prevailing market price as per the last traded stock on
the Colombo Stock Exchange
If unquoted - net realisable value, taking into account the prevailing
interest rate scenario and expected cash flows from the investment.
Estimated realisable value

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
8A
Estimated realisable value
Most recent manager’s buying price quoted by the unit trust
or mutual fund
Lower of market price and estimated realisable value
Net amount receivable after deducting the provision for bad
and doubtful debts
Net realisable value
Actual amount
Estimated realisable value
(k) Unrated corporate debt - held in shareholders’
funds
(l) Unit trusts and mutual funds
 (m) Gold kept in safe custody in a bank
(n) Net amounts receivable from reinsurers
(o) Outstanding policy loans
(p) Premium outstanding
(q) Mortgage loans on immovable property
PART V
Valuation of Liabilities
20. (1) For the purpose of calculating CAR, insurers shall value insurance liabilities on a market consistent basis in
accordance with the provisions of  this Part.
(2) Every Insurer shall value non-insurance liabilities in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
21. (1) Every insurer shall value long term insurance liabilities using the following formula ;
Long term insurance liability = best estimate (BE) long term liability + risk margin for adverse deviation (RM)
(2) Every insurer shall value general insurance liabilities using the following formula :
General insurance liability = claims liability + premiums liability
Where claims liability (CL) = BE claims liability + RM claims liability
Where premiums liability (PL) = Max {UPR, [BE (URR) + RM(URR)]}, and
Where UPR means unearned premium reserve and URR means unexpired risk reserve.
22. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the BE liability is the  present value of all future BE cash flows calculated
using the risk free interest rate yield curve required by rule 32.
(2) Subject to provisions of paragraph (3), insurers shall calculate the BE liability using a discounted cash flow
approach covering all the cash in and out flows required to settle the obligations under in-force policies.
(3) Every long term insurer shall use a discounted cash flow approach equivalent to gross premium valuation
methodology to calculate the liabilities of : -
Table 2 :
Valuation of Assets (contd.)

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
9A
(i) non-participating policies ;
(ii) the guaranteed benefits of participating policies ; and
(iii) the non-unit linked liabilities of unit linked long term policies
23.  Subject to the provisions of rule 24, relevant future cash flows include :
(a) future premiums, charges and fees ;
(b) administrative expenses, investment management expenses, commission expenses and claims
management expenses ;
(c) claims payments ; and
(d) for long term policies, benefits payments including death, survival, critical illness and disability benefits,
and benefits payable on lapse, surrender, premium discontinuance, or other contingency.
24. In determining the BE of the present value of future pre-tax cash flows, insurers shall exclude :
(a) income tax payments and receipts ;
(b) cash flows arising from future policies ; and
(c) investment returns from current or future investments except returns related to long term policies linked
to the performance including unit linked long term policies, universal life policies, and participating
policies, where future investment returns may affect the benefits payable to policyholders.
25. All relevant cash flows for in-force policies that are reasonably likely to occur after the valuation date shall be
included on a prospective basis.
26. Every insurer shall value liabilities on a policy by policy (seriatim) basis but, to the extent that this is not reasonably
possible, insurers may use reasonable approximations or groupings of data.
27. (1) Every insurer shall calculate liabilities both gross and net of reinsurance.
(2) For the purpose of determining liabilities, both gross and net of reinsurance, relevant future cash flows shall
also be determined on a gross and net basis.
(3) Every insurer may use reasonable approximations of the impact of non-proportional reinsurance arragements
on the BE liabilities and RMs.
28. Every insurer shall use, in order to calculate the BE liabilities, appropriate actuarial and statistical techniques
(such as analytical techniques, deterministic techniques, and simulation methods) to determine the mean of possible
outcome, taking into account all relevant information about the insurer’s business.
29. (1) Every insurer shall calculate the cash flows used to determine the BE liabilties on the basis of reasonable,
supportable, and explicit BE assumptions to estimate the mean of possible outcomes.
(2) BE assumptions shall :
(a) be made using judgment and be based on experience ;
(b) take into account relevant statistical and other information ; and
(c) be neither overstated nor understated.
(3) Every insurer shall use, subject to the provisions of paragraph (4), their own experience as the starting point in
determining BE assumptions for future experience.
(4) If their experience is not sufficiently credible, such insurers shall use appropriate industry data, data from reinsurers,
population statistics, or the assumptions used in a recent business planning exercise, to set suitable BE assumptions.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
10A
(5) Unless the nature of the liability is sufficiently simple, such insurers shall make appropriate adjustments to their
BE assumptions to take into account the extent to which variations in the assumptions may be correlated with, or may
influence, each other in adverse circumstances so that the BE liability reflects the mean of the distribution of potential
liability outcomes.
(6) Without prejudice to the provisions of rules 30(4) and 33(4), insurers shall review all BE assumptions on a
regular basis and revise them, if appropriate, before the next valuation date.
30. (1) Every insurer shall use, in order to project future cash flows to determine BE liabilities, reasonable BE
assumptions for non-market risks and other inputs, including :
(a) mortality and morbidity ;
(b) policy discontinuances, lapses and surrenders ; and
(c) expenses and expense inflation.
(2)  Positive or negative correlations between two or more non-market inputs shall be reflected in the calculation of
the BE liabilities in a consistent manner.
(3)  For disability benefits, BE assumptions shall be made for mortality and recovery rates, as well as for disability
incidence rates ;
(4)  Every insurer shall review the BE assumptions related to lapses and surrenders at least once annually and revise
them to reflect their most recent experience, if appropriate, before the next valuation date.
31. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), in calculating the BE liabilities, every insurer shall take into
account the effect of any non-linear or asymmetrical distribution of outcomes by using an appropriate method to simulate
the probability distribution.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), if a non-liner or an asymmetrical distribution has a significant
effect on the value of the cash-flows, for example in the case of policies that contain embedded options and guarantees,
every insurer shall take into account the asymmetrical distribution of liability outcomes using a simulation method to
calculate the BE liability as the mean of an appropriately simulated probability distribution.
(3) If such policies represent less than 5% of the total insurance liabilities, with the approval of the Board,
insurers may use a deterministic method.
32. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), every insurer shall use a risk free interest rate yield curve to
discount liability cash flows.
(2) Every insurer may, with the approval of the Board, use a risk free interest rate yield curve developed using an
appropriate mathematical model and consistant with current Sri Lankan Government bond rates.
(3) If the Board has not approved an interest rate curve under paragraph (2), such insurer shall use the current risk
free interest rate yield curve published by the Board.
33. (1) In determining BE assumptions for mortality and morbidity risks, unless the Board has required the use of
specified mortality or morbidity tables, long term insurers may use standard industry mortality and morbidity tables,
adjusted by a suitable multiplier wherever appropriate and to remove any implicit margins.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), the multiplier shall be based on the insurer’s recent experience,
comparing actual to expected mortality and morbidity.
(3) If an insurer does not have sufficient experience, the insurer shall use industry data, data from reinsurers,
population statictics, or the assumptions used in a recent business planning exercise, to set suitable BE assumptions.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
11A
(4) Every insurer shall review the BE assumptions related to mortality and morbidity at least once every three years
and revise them to reflect the most recent experience before the next valuation date.
34. (1) The value of participating policy liabilities is the higher of the value of the guaranteed benefits liability and the
total benefits liability, derived at the participating insurance fund level.
(2) In calculating the guaranteed benefits liability, insurers shall include only the guaranteed benefits (including
proposed bonuses) and shall discount cash flows using the risk free interest rate yield curve required by rule 32.
(3) In calculating the total benefits liability, insurers shall include all guaranteed and non-guaranteed benefits,
and shall discount cash flows using the fund based yield of the participating insurance fund.
(4) The fund based yield shall be derived from the historical yield and the future investment outlook of the
participating insurance fund and determined net of tax on the investment income of the fund.
35. (1) Every insurer shall determine the non-unit linked liabilities of unit linked long term policies by projecting the
non-unit linked and linked future cash flows to determine if the insurance fund will be sufficient to meet future obligations
and, if not, shall increase the liability  value to eliminate the deficit.
(2) The non-unit linked cash flows shall be discounted using the risk free interest rate yield curve required by
rule 32.
(3)  When the growth of a unit linked long term fund leads to a cash inflow, insurers shall determine the cash
flows by adjusting the fund growth rate assumptions (allowing for an appropriate RM) in calculating the future cash flow.
(4) The fund growth rate assumption shall be consistant with the fund experience provided by the fund manager.
36. (1)  Every insurer may establish negative liabilities for long term policies (and are not required to set the liabilities
to zero).
(2)  If the surrender value of a policy is higher than the sum of the BE liability and the RM, the value of the BE
liability may not be increased to the surrender vaule of the policy.
37. (1)  Every insurer shall identify all options and guarantees under long term policies and the value of the policy
liability shall include an amount to cover the liabilities which may result from the exercise of the options and guarantees.
(2)  Every insurer shall use, subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), (4), and (5), a stochastic method to ensure
the sufficiency of such policy liabilities at a 75% confidence interval.
(3) The BE liability of policies with embedded options or guarantees may be valued using closed-form option
pricing formulas or using an approach such as risk-neutral valuation.
(4)  Subjects to the provisions of paragraph (5), for long term policies with embedded options or guarantees,
where a significant proportion of the total uncertainity arises from only one or a small number of risks, the remaining
risks making an proportionately smaller contribution, insurers may use a valuation technique that combines a simulation
approach for the primary risks along with a deterministic approach for the secondary risks.
(5)  Where the BE liability for policies with options or guarantees is expected to be less than 5% of the total long
term insurance liabilities or where the options and guarantees are simple and short term, with the approval of the Board,
insurers may use a deterministic method.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
12A
38.  Every insurer shall include in valuing long term insurance liabilities, appropriate determinations and values ; for
(a) the immediate payment of claims ;
(b) in the case of limited payment policies and paid-up policies, future expenses and bonuses;
(c) existing liabilities or expected future liabilities under policies that have lapsed ;
(d) disability benefits in payment ;
(e) policies kept in force where the premiums have been waived ;
(f) future benefits in the event of a life insured’s disability or future waivers of premiums ;
(g) policies covering a substandard risk or a high risk occupation ; and
(h) any other liability or contingent liability under a long term policy not already listed.
39.   Every general insurer shall, using the methodology in Table 3 to calculate the UPR and the BE of URR, calculate
the premiums liability for each sub-class of general insurance business using the following formula ;
Premium Liability (PL) = Max {UPR, [BE (URR) + RM (URR)]}
Table 3
Calculation methodology for UPR and URR
Factor Category V aluation methodology
UPR All general
insurance policies
except
reinsurance
policies
All reinsurance
policies
BE (URR) All policies
40.  (1) Every insurer shall calculate the claims liability for each sub-class of general insurance business using the
following formula ;
Claims Liability (CL) = BE (Claims Liability) + Risk Margin (Claims Liability)
(2) In calculating the CL, insurers shall taken into account all future payments related to claims incurred as at the
valuation date, including claims incurred but not reported, claims outstading, and expected direct and indirect claims
related expenses such as investigation fees, loss adjustment fees, legal fees, medical fees, labour costs, and internal
administrative costs.
(3)  The BE of the CL shall reflect the statistical mean of the underlying distribution of the relevant insurance risks.
Premium adjusted for accounted commissions paid to intermediaries, not
exceeding the commission required by the Board
For policies with a term of one year, an appropriate time apportionment method
no less accurate than the 1/24th method ; for policies with a term longer or
shorter than one year, a method that assumes a uniform spread of premiums during
each month of the term of the policy.
An appropriate time apportionment method no less accurate than the 1/8th
method.
BE of expected future claims payments arising from future events, for risks
assumed as at the valuation date, including an allowance for expected expenses
incurred to settle claims, including overheads in administering the policies and
settling the claims, and allowing for expected premium refunds.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
13A
41. (1) Where policy administration expenses have not been included in the date used for determining insurance
liabilities, general insurers shall make a separate provison for such expenses.
(2) When determining the BE of the CL and PL, general insurers shall made an appropriate allowance for future
claims escalations caused by wage or price increases, court-awarded interest, or other environmental or economic
causes.
(3) If the effect of the discounting is material and appropriate, insurers may calculate the CL and PL and on a
discounted basis using the risks free interest rate yield curve required by rule 32.
PART VI
Determination of RM
42. (1) Every insurer shall determine a RM so that the sum of the BE liability and the RM represents a 75% confidence
interval with respect to the underlying probability distribution of the possible outcomes.
(2) In determining the RM, insurers shall take into account the impact of the provisions of the insurer’s reinsurance
contracts (such as retention limits or quota share percentages) on the determination of the present value of
reinsurance recoverables under the stress scenarios or on the application of the RM factors to the BE liabilities.
43. (1) If an insurer has sufficiently credible experience, with the approval of the Board, the insurer may use an internal
model to determine appropriate RMs so that the sum of the BE liability and the RM achieves the required 75%
confidence interval.
(2) The RMs determined using an internal model may apply at the product level rather than to each sub-class and, if
an insurer has sufficiently credible experience to determine such an assumption, the model may include an
assumption for risk diversification.
(3) As at each valuation date, insurers shall be able to demonstrate that the sum of the BE liability and RM in each
case achieves the 75% confidence interval.
44. (1) If the Board has not approved an internal model under rule 43, long term insurers shall use the default RMs
specified in Table 4.
(2) Long term insurers using the default RMs shall use, for each of the relevant valuation parameters listed in Table
4, the direction of the stress factor (+/-) which produces the higher liability value for each policy type by :
(a) first determining the value of the policy liabilities under both positive and negative stress factors applied to
each relevant parameter ; then
(b) for each parameter, selecting the direction of stress that produces the higher liability value compared to the
BE liability.
(3) After the required direction of the stress factor for each relevant parameter has been determined for a product
type, the insurer shall determine the value of the product liabilities for that policy type using a single scenario in
which all risk factors are stressed simultaneously in the direction that produces the higher liability value (the
“combined stressed scenario”)
(4) The RM is the difference between the value of policy liabilities under the combined stressed scenario and the
corresponding BE liability.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
14A
Table 4
Default RMs for long term insurance liabilities
Valuation Policy types Risk mar gin stress factors
parameters
Mortality (non-annuity)
Mortatlity (annuity)
Total and
permanent
disability and
critical illness
Renewal expense
Persistency
*Note : Guaranteed means guaranteed for three years or more.
45. (1) If the Board has not approved an internal model under rule 43, general insurers shall use the default RMs
specified in Table 5.
(2) The RMs for the URR and CL shall be calculated by multiplying the BE liability by the relevant RM factor in
Table 5.
(3)  When the RMs are calculated using Table 5, no additional credit for diversification may be taken.
Table 5 :
Default RMs for general insurance liabilities
Business category URR RM as % of BE CL RM as % of BE
A. High V olatility
Liability insurance (such as public, 19% 16%
product, employers,
Professional Indemnity)
Aviation and marine hull
Other liability (except motor)
(i) guaranteed*
premium
(ii) non-guaranteed
premium
(i) guaranteed*
premium
(ii) non-guaranteed
premium
+10% of BE assumption
+7.5% of BE assumption
-15%
+20% of BE disablity assumption and 20% reduction
in recovery assumption
+10% of BE disability assumption and 10% reduction
in recovery assumption
+10% of BE assumption
+ 20% of BE assumption

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
15A
B. Medium volatility
Cargo 14% 12%
Engineering
Motor Liability
Workers’ compensation
C. Low volatility
Fire 10% 8%
Motor damage or loss
Personal accident
Health
Other (non-liability)
PART VII
Determination of Risk Capital Required (RCR)
46. (1) Subject to the provions of paragraph (2), every insurer shali make the calculations required in this Part for
each risk charge, applied to the total of insurance funds and shareholders’ funds, then add the resulting amounts to arrive
at the total  RCR, using the following formulas :
(a) for general insurance business :
RCR =   [(credit risk capital charge + concentration risk capital charge + reinsurance risk capital charge +
market risk capital charge)
2 + liability risk capital charge 2 + operational risk capital charge 2] ; and
(b) for long term insurance business :
RCR =max {(SVCC,   [(credit risk capital charge + concentration risk capital charge + reinsurance risk
capital charge + market risk capital charge) 2 + liability risk capital charge2+ operational risk capital charge 2]}
(2)  Except for operational risk under rule 61, risk charge do not apply to assets required to be deducted from TAC
under rule 12.
47. (1) As required in paragraph (2) and (3), every insurer shall determine a credit risk capital charge by adding
together  each credit risk exposure multiplied by the credit risk factor, for that exposure, the credit rsk exposure being
the market consistent value of the financial instrument.
(2) Every insurer shall apply subject to the provisions of rule 48, apply the credit risk capital factors specified in
Column 2 of Table 6 to the market consistent value of the related fixed income assets in the categories of admissible asset
listed in Column 1 of Table 6, except investment in related parties (to which rule 54 applies)
(3)  Every Insurer shall :
(a) use the most recent credit rating for each counterparty or financial instrument, as the case may be, assigned
by a credit rating agency falling within rule 15(2)(A) or (B) ; or
(b) treat the asset as unrated
Business category URR RM as % of BE CL RM as % of BE
Table 5 :
Default RMs for general insurance liabilities (contd.)

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
16A
Table 6
Credit Risk Capital Factors for Fixed Income Asset s
Category of asset Risk capital factor
Government securities issued by Central Bank of 0%
Sri Lanka and Debt Securities
/Deposits fully guaranteed by
Government of Sri Lanka
AAA rated debt securities issued or fully 0%
guaranteed by a foreign Government or a Central
Bank of a foreign country
Debt securities issued or fully guaranteed by a foreign government or a central bank of a foreign country (except AAA
rated debt securities above)
Above AA- 1.6%
A+to A- 4.0%
BBB + to BB- 8.0%
Below BB- 12.0%
Corporate debt including bonds, debentures, commercial papers, and similar financial instruments and asset backed
securities (except debt instruments with a term of less than 1 year)
AAA to AA- 1.6%
A+ to A- 4.0%
BBB+ to BB- 8.0%
Below BB- 12.0%
Unrated 16.0%
Corporate debt with a term of less than 1 year
A1/P1 1.6%
A2/P2 4.0%
A3/P3 8.0%
Unrated 12.0%

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
17A
Deposits with a licensed commercial bank or licensed specialised bank, or a licensed finance company
AAA to AA – 1.6%
A+ to A- 4.0%
BBB+ to BB- 8.0%
Below BB- 12.0%
Other admissible assets
Cash and cash equivalents 0%
Policy loans 0%
Premium outstanding 0%
Mortgage secured by
 residential property 2.8%
Mortgages secured by
 commercial property 8%
48. (1)  Every insurer may, subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), apply a lower credit risk capital factor to a
debt (except mortgage debt and debt to which a risk factor of 0% already applies) if the debt is guaranteed by a recognized
guarantor (a risk mitigation instrument)
(2) If an insurer holds a risk mitigation instument, the insurer may :
(a) apply the higher of the risk factor applicable to the guarantor or 1.6% to the portion of the debt
that is guaranteed ; and
(b) apply the risk factor applicable to the issuer to the portion of the debt that is not guaranteed.
49. Every insurer shall:
(a) apply a concentration risk capital factor of 100% to the value of the assets that are not admissible
assets and that are not required to be deducted from TAC under rule 12; and
(b) aggregate the resulting amounts to form the concentration risk capital charge.
50. (1) Every insurer shall calculate a reinsurance risk capital charge for each reinsurance counterparty using the
following formula :
Reinsurance risk capital charge = Reinsurance risk exposure x Counterparty credit risk factor; where the reinsurance
risk exposure the sum of :
Category of asset Risk capital factor
Table 6 :
Credit Risk Capital Factors for Fixed Income Asset s (contd.)

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
18A
(a) admissible amounts due from the reinsurance counterparty, including claims recoverable and ceding
commissions;
(b) reinsurance recoveries in respect of claims incurred including ceded claims liabilities;
(c) for long term insurance business, the difference between the value of the gross liabilities and the net
liabilities of the insurer in respect of its participating policies, non-participating policies, and unit linked
long term policies due to reinsurance ceded to the reinsurer; and
(d) for general insurance business, the difference between the gross premiums liability and the net premiums
liability of the insurer due to reinsurance ceded to the reinsurer.
(2) The counterparty credit risk capital factors are specified in Table 7, except that, in  the case of reinsurance ceded
to the National Insurance Trust Fund Board of Sri Lanka, the credit risk capital factor is 0%.
(3) Every insurer shall aggregate the risk capital charges calculated for each reinsurance counterparty to form the
reinsurance risk capital charge.
Table 7
Reinsurance credit risk factors
Credit rating of reinsurer (rated by a credit rating Risk factor
 agency listed in Part A of the Schedule)
AAA to AA - 1.6%
A+ to A - 4.0%
BBB + to BB - 8.0%
Below BB- 12.0%
Unrated 16.0%
51. Every insurer shall determine a market risk capital charge as follows:
Market risk capital charge = Interest rate risk charge + Credit spread risk charge + Equity risk charge +
Property risk charge + Gold risk charge + Unit trust and mutual fund risk charge, calculated in accordance
with rules 52 to 57.
52. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (4) and (5), insurers shall calculate the interest rate risk charge as
follows :
(a) compute the present value of the net guaranteed liabilities and the interest rate sensitive asset exposures
under the base scenario, referred to as V0 and A0, respectively, where (in the manner required by Parts 5
and 6) V0 is the value  of the guaranteed insurance liabilities, which includes a RM and is discounted
using the risk free interest rate yield curve;
(b) re-compute the present value of the net guaranteed liablilities and the interest rate sensitive asset exposures
under the increasing interest rate scenario, referred as to V1 and A1, respectively;

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
19A
(c) recompute the present value of the net guranteed liabilities and the interest rate sensitive  asset exposures
under the decreasing interest rate scenario, referred to as V2 and A2, respectively;
(d) compute the value of the surplus under each scenario as the difference between the present value of the
assets and liabilities; and
(e) determine the reduction in surplus under the increasing and decreasing interest rate scenarios.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), the interest rate risk charge is the greater of the reduction in surplus
under the increasing and decreasing interest rate scenarios.
(3) If there is an increase in surplus under both shock scenarios, then the risk charge is zero.
(4) Cash flows for assets and liabilities that are  not sensitive to interest rates, such as floating rate bonds, equities,
and non-guaranteed liabilities are not included in the calculation of the interest rate risk charge.
(5) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (6), (7), and (8) a standard up-shock and down- Shock methodology shall
be applied to the risk free interest rate yield curve to arrive at the increasing and decreasing interest rate scenarios.
(6) The schocked term structures shall be derived by multiplying the risk free interest rate yield curve by (1+Sup)
and (1-Sdown), where the upward stress factors Sup(t) and the downward stress factors Sdown (t) are those specified for
each maturity “t” in Table 8.
(7) Notwithstanding the stress factors specified in Table 8, the absolute change of interest rates in the downward
scenario shall be at least 1%.
(8) Where the unstressed rate is lower than 1%, the shocked rate in the downward scenario shall be 0%.
Table  8
Risk free interest rate curve shock factors
Maturity t (years) Shock up(t) factor Shock down(t) factor
0.25 70% 75%
0.5 70% 75%
1 70% 75%
2. 70% 65%
3 64% 56%
4 59% 50%
5 55% 46%
6 52% 42%
7 49% 39%
8 47% 36%

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
20A
9 44% 33%
10 42% 31%
11 39% 30%
12 37% 29%
13 35% 28%
14 34% 28%
15 33% 27%
16 31% 28%
17 30% 28%
18 29% 28%
19 27% 29%
20 26% 29%
21 26% 29%
22 26% 30%
23 26% 30%
24 26% 30%
25 – 29 26% 30%
30 and above 25% 30%
53. (1) Every insurer shall determine a credit spread risk charge for interest rate sensitive assets that are also
subject to credit risk as follows.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (7)  every insurer shall first determine an average credit spread in
excess of the risk free interest rates for the interest rate sensitive and credit risk bearing assets, taken together , by
weighting the current yields on the assets in proportion to their value as at the valuation date.
(3) Every insurer shall then determine a “risky” yield curve by adding the average credit spread determined
under paragraph (2) to the risk free interest rate yield curve required by rule 32.
(4) Every insurer shall then calculate the differences between the present value of the net liability cash flows
for guaranteed liabilities and the present value of the cash flows for interest rate sensitive assets, under an increasing
interest rate scenario and under a decreasing interest rate scenario, where the cash flows for the credit risk bearing assets
are discounted using the “risky” yield curve, and the  cash flows for the liabilities and the non -credit risk bearing assets
are discounted using the risk free interest rate yield curve.
Maturity t (years) Shock up(t) factor Shock down(t) factor

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
21A
(5) The increasing and decreasing rate scenarios shall be determined by shocking both the “risky” yield curve
and the risk free interest rate yield curve using the shock factors in Table 8.
(6) The credit spread risk amount is the greater of the reduction in surplus under the increasing and decreasing
rate scenarios.
(7) Alternatively, every insurer  may calculate the present value of the asset cash flows for the credit risk
bearing assets by determining the credit spread for each asset separately and, for each asset, using the above method,
determining a risky yield curve, shocking it to determine the increasing and decreasing rate scenarios, discounting the
cash flows, and adding the resulting amounts.
(8) The credit spread risk charge is the higher of zero and the difference between the interest rate risk charge
calculated under rule 52 and the total of the credit spread risk amounts.
54. (1) Every insurer shall calculate an equity risk charge by applying the equity risk factors to the value of the
admissible assets as specified in Table 9 and aggregating the resulting amounts.
(2) Investments in related parties shall be treated as equity investments for the purpose of calculating the equity
risk charge
Table 9
Equity risk factors.
Shares listed on a licensed stock exchange 35%
Investments in related parties listed on a licensed stock exchange 35%
Unlisted private equity 45%
55. (1) Every insurer shall calculate a property risk charge applicable to admissible assets whose value is sensitive
to the volatility of market prices of property.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (1), the following assets shall be treated as property:
(a) land, buildings, and other immovable property rights; and
(b) direct or indirect participations in real estate companies that generate periodic income from property
holdings,
unless the asset is subject to a risk charge under another rule, except rule 61 (operational risk capital charge)
(3) Every insurer  shall apply a property risk factor of 25% to the value of property and aggregate the resulting
amounts to form the property risk charge.
56. Every insurer shall apply a gold risk factor of 15% to the total value of their admissible gold assets to determine
the gold risk charge.
57. (1) Every insurer  shall apply the risk factors to the underlying assets of the fund, or part fund, as specified in
Table 10, for admissible mutual funds and unit trusts.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
22A
(2) The value of the underlying assets shall be determined as at the valuation date based on the market values provided
by the fund manager.
(3) Every insurer shall aggregate the resulting amounts for each unit trust and mutual fund to form the unit trust and
mutual fund risk charge.
Table 10
Risk factors for unit trusts and mutual funds
Asset category Risk factor
Government securities and Debt Securities/Deposits
guaranteed by Government 0.0%
Money market instruments, including cash 1.6%
Ordinary shares 35.0%
Debt Securities & corporate debt 4.0%
Property (as defined in rule 55) 25.0%
Other 15.0%
58. (1) General insurers shall calculate  a liability risk capital charge by aggregating the risk charges for claims
liability and premiums liability as follows.
(2) Every general insurer shall determine premiums liability risk charges for each sub-class of general insurance
business , separately, by multiplying the net unexpired risk reserve (URR), determined at a 75% confidence interval, by
the corresponding premiums liability risk factor specified in column 2 of Table 11.
(3) Every general insurer shall determine claims liability risk charges for each sub-class of general insurance business,
separately, by multiplying the net claims liability by the corresponding claims liability risk factor specified in column 3
of Table 11.
Table 11:
Risk factors for premiums liability and claims liability risk charges
Business category Pr emiums liability risk factor Claims liability risk factor
A. High V olatility
Liability insurance (such as public, 36% 30%
product, employers,
Professional Indemnity)
Aviation and marine hull
Other liability (except motor)

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
23A
B. Medium volatility
Cargo 30% 25%
Engineering
Motor Liability
Workers’ compensation
C. Low volatility
Fire 24% 20%
Motor damages or loss
Personal accident
Health
Other (non-liability)
59. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) long term insurers shall calculate liability risk
capital charges for each sub-class of long term insurance business using the following formula:
Liability risk capital charge = (V* - Value of  liabilities under base scenario), where V* is the adjusted value of
the long term insurance liabilites calculated using the stress factors specified in Table 12.
(2) In detemining V*, insurers shall use the methodology in rule 44(2) and (3)
(3) The value of V* shall be calculated on a policy-by-policy basis, by stressing all risk factors simultaneously in
the direction selected for that policy for that policy type (as specified inTable 12).
(4) Every insurer shall use the same stress factors, in the same direction for all policies of that product type.
(5) For participating policies V* and the value of liabilities under the base scenario (that is , BE liability + RM)
applies only to the guaranteed liabilities.
Table 12.
Stress factors for calculating V*
Valuation Policy types St ress factors to determine V*
parameters
Mortality (non-annuity)
Mortality (annuity)
Business category Pr emiums liability risk factor Claims liability risk factor
(i)    guaranteed*
        premium
(ii) non-guaranteed
         premium
+ 20% of BE assumption
+ 15% of BE assumption
-25%
Table 11:
Risk factors for premiums liability and claims liability risk charges (contd.)

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
24A
Total and
permanent
disability and
critical illness
Renewal expense
Persistency
*Note : Guaranteed means guaranteed for 3 years or more
60. (1) Subject to the  provisions of paragraph (3), long term insurers shall apply a surrender value capital charge
(“SVCC”) to set an upper limit for RCR.
(2) The SVCC is the higher of zero and the aggregate surrender values of the policies in force minus the aggregate
policy liabilities, where the policy liabilities are calculated as BE liability + RM.
(3) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (4) and (5) the SVCC shall be determined for participating policies,
non-participating policies and unit linked long term policies separately, then aggregated.
(4) In the case of unit linked long term policies, the SVCC applies only if the guaranteed surrender values exceed
the unit fund values and non-unit linked liabilities, in aggregate, as at the valuation date.
(5) In determining the SVCC for policies that are yet to acquire a surrender value or where the policy liability is
negative the surrender value shall be taken as zero.
61. Every insurer shall calculate an operational risk capital charge of 1% of the value of all assets of the insurer,
whether admissible or not, and whether held inside or outside an insurance fund or shareholders’ fund, including assets by
reference to the value of which linked long term liabilities are to be determined.
PART VIII
General
62. Unless the context otherwise requires:
“Act” means the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000
“asset backed securities” means securities that are primarily serviced by cash flows from a discrete pool of receivables or
other financial assets, either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash within a definite period, with
any rights or other assets designed to ensure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to the security holders;
“BE” means best estimate;
“Board” means the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka established under section 2 of the Act;
“Capital adequacy ratio” means the capital adequacy ratio of an insurer, that is, the ratio of TAC to RCR expressed as a
percentage;
V aluation Policy types St ress factors to determine V*
parameters
(i) guaranteed*
     premium
(ii) non-guaranteed
      premium
+ 35% of BE disablity assumption and 30% reduction
in recovery assumption
+ 30% of BE disability assumption and 25% reduction
in recovery assumption
+ 20% of BE assumption
+ 50% of BE assumption
Table 12
Stress factors for calculating V*  (contd.)

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
25A
“CL” means the claims liability;
“company” means a company incorporated under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007;
“inadmissible assets” means the assets which are not admissible;
“licensed finance company” means a company licensed under Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011, to carry on finance
business within the meaning of that Act;
“licensed specialised bank” means an institution licensed as a specialised bank under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
“Long term insurance fund” means the insurance fund maintained under section 38 of the Act;
“MCR” means the minimum capital required by rule 4;
“market consistent valuation” means a valuation of assets or liabilities at marked value (‘mark to market’) or, where a
market value cannot reasonably be ascertained, a valuation using ‘mark to model’ approach;
“multilateral agency” means the International Finance Corporation or other similar institution approved by the Board
“mutual fund” means a professionally managed and regulated open-ended collective investment vehicle (that is not a
hedge fund or unit trust) that pools money from many investors to purchase securities;
“PL” means the premiums liability;
“RCR” means the total amount of risk capital charges, valued and determined in accordance with these Rules;
“RCAR” means the CAR required by rule 3;
“recognised guarantor” means the Government of Sri Lanka, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the central Bank of a foreign
country carrying an investment grade rating, a multilateral agency, or an institution carrying an investment grade
rating approved by the Board;
“related party” shall have the same meaning as in the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards;
“RM” means risk margin for adverse deviation;
“shareholders’ funds” means:
(a) issued and fully paid ordinary share capital;
(b) share premium arising out of (a), and
(c) reserves with retained profits attributable to shareholders (except non-distributable or restricted reserves);
“Solvency Margin (Long Term Insurance) Rules 2002” means the Solvency Margin (Long Term Insurance ) Rules, 2002,
published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1255/12 of September 24, 2002;
“Solvency Margin (General Insurance) Rules, 2004” mean the Solvency Margin (General Insurance) Rules, 2004, published
in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1341/8 of May 17, 2004;
“Sri Lanka Accounting Standards” means the accounting standards adopted under the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing
Standards Act, No. 15 of 1995, which  comprise Accounting Standards prefixed both SLFRS and LKAS (SLFRS
refers to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards corresponding to IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) and
LKAS refers to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards corresponding to IAS (International Accounting Standards):

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'12'15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.12.2015
26A
“Total available capital” (TAC) means the total available capital held by an insurer, valued and determined in accordance
with rules 9 to 13, available to cover RCR and MCR;
“Tier 1 capital” means permanent capital that is fully available to cover the losses of an insurer at all times on both a going
concern and a winding up basis, as specified in rule 10;
“Tier 2 capital” means capital that lacks some of the absorbency characteristics of the Tier 1 capital, but nevertheless
provides some loss absorbency during on going operations or on winding up as specified in rule 11;
“unit trust” means a unit trust within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 36 of
1987 , managed by a company licensed under that Act, or a unit trust outside Sri Lanka approved by the Board;
“UPR” means the unearned premium reserve; and
“URR” means the unexpired risk reserve.
63. The Solvency Margin (Long Term Insurance) Rules, 2002 Solvency Margin (General Insurance) Rules, 2004 are
rescinded with effect from December 31, 2015.
SCHEDULE
[rule 15]
Part A
Credit rating agency Minimum international Minimum international rating of
rating of entity or security short term (less than
 one year) security
(1) Moody’s Investor Services Baa 3 P3
(2) Standard and Poor’s Corp. BBB- A3
(3) Fitch Ratings BBB- F3
(4) A. M. Best Company bbb- AMB - 3
Part B
Credit rating agency Minimum Minimum rating of
rating of entity or security short term (less than
 one year) security
(1) Fitch Ratings (Lanka) Ltd. BBB-(lka) F3 (lka)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
1-1098