

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MAHIND AN AND A ALUTHGAMA GE
FOUND A TION (INCORPORA TION)
ACT , No. 75 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
2—PL 004442—  3,150 (10/2009)
Short title.
[Certified on 23rd December 2009]
L.D.—O. INC 3/2009.
A N  A CT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  MAHIND AN AND A  A LUTHGAMA GE
FOUND ATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation” has heretofore
been created for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules  agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which the said Foundation was established,
and has applied to be incorporated, and it will be for the
public advantage to grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. T his Act ma y be cited as the Mahindananda
Aluthgama ge Founda tion (Incorporation) Act, No. 75
of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Founda tion (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued and shall have full power and
authority to have and use a common Seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
Incorporation of
the
Mahindananda
Aluthgamage
Foundation.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to award prizes and scholarships to needy school
children to enable them to continue their eduction
and to encourage them to attend school regularly ;
(b) to establish and maintain libraries including mobile
libraries to assist the students in their educational
activities ;
(c) to organize seminars, workshops, lectures,
exhibitions, and educational tours with a view to
promoting the educational activities of school
children ;
(d) provide for loan schemes and other assistance to
school principals and teachers in order to encourage
them to enhance their professional knowledge ;
(e) to award scholarships to deserving students
selected to follow courses at Universities and
technical  Colleges ;
(f) to introduce self-employment opportunities, loans
and savings schemes and vocational training and
computer traning centres for school leavers ;
(g) to establish and maintain per-schools for early
childhood development of the needy children ;
(h) to grant lands and houses to needy families who do
not own lands or houses ;
(i) to supply wheel chairs and other medical equipment
to hospitals and to provide medical relief and food
for the needy, destitute and sick, establish and
maintain houses for displaced persons and elders
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
and establish and maintain Children’s homes and
daycare centres for children and elders ;
(j) to print, publish and distribute such books, journals,
bulletins and newspapers  as are necessary to
disseminate information relating to the objects of
the incorporation ; and
(k) to assist persons who are blind, deaf and dumb by
providing for their needs.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules made under section 6, be
administered by a Board of Directors consisting of the
Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and nine other members who
shall be elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Minister Mahindananda Aluthgama ge shall be the first
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the corporation.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
be the Board of Directors of the Foundation holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law , the Corporation shall have the pow er to—
(a) borrow or raise money with or without security for
the purpose of the Corporation ;
(b) utilize the funds belonging to the Corporation in
order to achieve the objects of the Corporation, in a
manner determined by the Board of Directors ;
(c) open, maintain and close bank accounts in any bank
or banks as may be determined by the Board of
Directors ;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
(d) employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation ;
(e) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects ;
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any G eneral M eeting or at a Special General Meeting
by a majority of not less than one third of the members
present and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law for all or
any of the following matters :—
(a) the election of the office bearers, their term of office,
resignation from, or vacation of, or removal from
office and their powers and duties ;
(b) the election and the terms of office of members
of the Board of Directors other than the office
bearers, and the powers and duties of the Board of
Directors ;
(c) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members and membership
fees ;
(d) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts ;
(e) the procedure to be followed at any meeting of the
Board of Directors and the quorum therefor and the
conduct of business thereat ; and
(f) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
(2) An y rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property both movable and immovable by way of purchase,
grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution or grants
on behalf of the C orporation shall be deposited to the credit
of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors may determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money as may be  required to defray any expenditure incurred
by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its pow ers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the C orporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall
be paid to the C orporation for the purposes of this Act.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable  to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such members as  membership
fees.
Corporation
may hold
movable and
immovable
property.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
The Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
11. (1) The  Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor appointed by the Board of Directors.
(3) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor ”
means —
(i) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument except in the presence of the Chairman and
two members of the Corporation as may be decided by the
Board of Directors, who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains any property after the satisfaction of all debts and
liabilities, such property shall not be distributed among the
members of the Corporation, but shall be given or transmitted
to some other institution or institutions having objects similar
to those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rules
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the Board of Directors on or before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 9 -->

8  Mahindananda Aluthgama ge Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 75 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.