

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
ශී  ලංකා  පජාතාන්තික  සමාජවාදී   ජනරජෙය්  ගැසට්  පතය 
අති විෙශෂ   
අංක 2235/54 - 2021 ජූලි මස 08 වැනි බහස්පතින්දා - 2021.07.08 
 
No. 2235/54 –  THURSDAY, JULY 08, 2021 
EXTRAORDINARY 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART I: SECTION (I)  — GENERAL 
 
Government Notifications 
1A - G 36400  - 60  (2021/07) 
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY LAW, No. 41 OF 1978  
OF THE NATIONAL STATE ASSEMBLY 
 
UNDER Section 21 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 of the National State Assembly read  
with the section 8 of the Law, Gazette No. 392/9 dated 10.03.1986, Gazette No. 821/19 dated 01.06.1994, Gazette No. 
935/6 dated 06.08.1996, Gazette No. 10 68/13 dated 24.02.1999,  Gazette No. 14 59/20 dated 23.08.2006, Gazette No. 
1538/24 dated 27.02.2008, G azette No. 1555/32 dated 27.06. 2008, Gazette No. 1597/8 date d 17.04.2009, Gazette No. 
1603/53 dated 30.05.2009, Gazette No. 1701/13 dated 12.04.2011 on Planning & Building, Regulations / Orders 
(General) are revoked and is replaced by the New Planning & Development Regulations / Orders attached hereto. 
 
 
 
 Mahinda Rajapaksa, 
 Minister of Urban Development and Housing. 
 
Colombo,  
05.07.2021 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY LAW, No. 41 OF 1978  
OF THE NATIONAL STATE ASSEMBLY 
 
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Urban Development and Housing under the Section 21 of Urban 
Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 of the Nati onal State Assembly read with the Section 8 of Urban 
Development Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 1982.  
 
 
 Mahinda Rajapaksa,  
 Minister of Urban Development and Housing. 
 
 
Colombo,  
05.07.2021 
 
 
Regulations 
 
 1. This regulation may be cited as the Urban Development Authority Planning & Development Regulations 2021.   
 
 2. By virtue of this regulation, the Extraordinary Gazette notification No. 392/9 dated 10.03.1986, No. 821/19 dated 
01.06.1994, No. 935/6 dated 06.08.1996, No. 1068/13 dated 24.02.1999, No. 1459/20 dated 23.08.2006, No. 
1538/24 dated 27.02.2008, No. 1555/32 dated 27.06.2008, No. 1597/08 dated 17.04.2009, No. 1603/53 dated 
30.05.2009 and No. 1701/13 dated 12.04.2011 shall be repealed with effect from this date and replaced by these 
regulations.  
 
 3. The provisions of these regulations shall be applicable to  every area for the time being declared by the Minister by 
notification published in the Gazette, to be an Urban Development Area.  
 
 
PART I 
 
Preliminary Planning Clearance 
 
1. 
 (1) A Preliminary Planning Clearance (PPC) for any Development Activity, sp ecified under Section 29 of the 
Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978 and its amendments, shall be issued by the Urban  
Development Authority upon the request of the Developer or his Agent. 
 
 (2) The PPC shall be in writing and shall refer to the survey plan, the relevant development plan and planning 
and development regulations applied for the particul ar development and indicate the clearances required 
from relevant government agencies and any other conditions imposed by government agencies from time to 
time. 
 
 (3) A PPC shall be obtained from the Authority fo r any development activity as prescribed hereunder: 
 
 a. Any subdivision or amalgamation of a land in extent 1.0 hectare or more. 
  b. Any subdivision of a land of which the number of lots exceeds eight (8). 
 c. Any residential development that exceeds: 1,000 m 2 in floor area or 15.0 m in height. 
 d. Any non-residential development exceeding 400 m 2 in floor area.  
 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
 e. Any development including a subdivision of land, erection of a building, change of current use or 
demolition situated within an environmental sensitive area or an area that is proposed to be conserved for 
historic, archaeological, architectural or aesthetic purposes or within close proximity to wildlife reserves 
and forests reserves. 
 
 f. Any industrial development project or an undertaking for which approval shall be necessary under the 
provisions of Part IV (C) of the National Environmental Act,  No. 47 of 1980 and its amendments and 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 1533/16 of 25.01.2008 of Central Environmental Authority.  
 
  g. Construction of water towers, communication towers, antenna towers and transmission towers. 
 
 h. Any development activity related to quarry ing or mining of soil or any other mineral. 
 
 i. Any development activity that may be decided   by the planning committee .    
 
(4) Any Developer or his Agent  who is desirous of obtaining a PPC shall make an application to the Authority 
according to Form A  as set out in  Schedule 1  herein along with the written declarations as set out in 
Annexure I & II of Form A.     
  
 (5) An application shall be forwarded online along with the relevant documents to the   Authority. 
 
(6) Every application shall be  forwarded to the Authority with the relevant fee in the manner as set out in 
Schedule 2  herein. In the event the fee payable exceeds a sum of rupees Ten Thousand (Rs. 10,000/-), an 
advance payment of rupees Five Thousand (Rs. 5,000/-) shall be paid at the time the application is submitted 
and the balance shall be settled prior to the issuance of the PPC.  
 
(7) The Authority may exempt the whole or a part of the payment of fees in respect of an application to pursue 
developments in connection with Re ligious Places or Government Low-in come Housing Projects and in such 
circumstances, the Administrative Expens es incurred by the Authority shall be charged from the applicant as 
set out in Schedule 2 herein. 
  
2. 
(1) Upon considering the merits of th e duly filled application along with the necessary documents furnished by the 
applicant, the Authority may grant a PPC to the applican t subject to conditions. However, the Developer or his 
Agent shall be obligated to disclose additional information that may be deemed necessary for the purpose of the 
Authority to consider the application and decide on the desirability of imposing additional conditions, based on 
the scale of the development.  
 
(2) The PPC issued under these regulations shall not be deemed or served as a Development Permit thus the 
Developer or his Agent shall not commence or be permitted to carry out any Development Activity in the 
absence of a proper and valid permit to that effect.  
 
 
3. 
(1) A PPC issued under this regulation shall be valid for a period of one year. 
 
(2) Provided that the Authority may at the request made by the Developer or his Agent, annually extend the 
validity period of the PPC not exceeding two (2) years upon considering the merits of such application/ request.  
 
(3) Where the Developer or his Agent to whom the PPC was issued is desirous of transferring the PPC including 
all privileges afforded thereto to a any other  party during the validity period of the PPC, such applicant shall be 
required to make a formal request to the Authority through an affidavit supporting his request together with the 
relevant fee as specified in Schedule 2 herein.  

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
PART II 
 
 
Land Subdivision, Amalgamation and Development 
 
 
4. 
(1) No person shall carry out or engage in any Develo pment Activity related to subdivision, amalgamation or 
development of lands without a Development Permit obtained from the Relevant Authority. 
 
(2)  In order to obtain a Development Permit, a Developer or his Agent shall make an application to the Relevant 
Authority according to Form B as set out in Schedule 1 herein, together with Annexure I and II of Form B 
and written declarations as prescribed in Annexure III and IV of Form B endorsed by a Qualified Person as 
set out in Schedule 3 herein.   
 
 (3) In a case where it is deemed necessary by the Releva nt Authority, the Developer or his Agent shall submit an 
indemnity for the proposed land subdivision, amalgamation or development, as specified in  Annexure V  of 
Form B as set out in Schedule 1 herein together with the application. 
 
(4) An application with the relevant documents shall be  forwarded to the Relevant Authority online wherever 
possible. 
 
5. Every application shall be forwarded to the Relevant Authority with the relevant fee as specified under Schedule 
2 herein. 
 
6. 
(1) Where the Developer or his Agent is desirous of transferring the Development Permit issued for any 
Development Activity relating to subdivision, amalgamati on or development of land along with all privileges 
afforded thereto, to a any other party or any person connected to such Developer or his Agent, a written request 
to that effect along with an affidavit and relevant documents shall be forwarded to the Relevant Authority by 
the Developer or his Agent to whom the approval was issu ed, together with the relevant fee as specified in 
Schedule 2 herein.  
 
(2) Any proposed Development Activity including subdivision, amalgamation or development of land shall be in 
compliance with these planning and development regulations and other relevant laws.  
 
7. 
(1) Where any land: 
 
 a. exceeds an extent of 0.5 hectare or more  and proposed to be subdivided into more than eight lots (8);            
                                         or 
 b. precipitates any impact pertaining to the sensitivity of the existing environment,  
 
 the Relevant Authority shall direct the Developer or his Agent to submit a report from the relevant Qualified 
Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein. 
 
 Such Qualified Person must certify that the proposed Development Activity including subdivision, 
amalgamation or development of land is in compliance with these planning and development regulations and 
other relevant laws, Development Plan and the environmental, social and economic condition of such area. 
 
8. Every Developer or his Agent shall furnish a detailed survey plan prepared to a scale of not less than 1:1000, 
which indicates the proposed lots and the corresponding dimensions, direction, widths and levels of all streets, 
open spaces and space for other amenities and the proposed use of every lot. Where site extent is large to be 
drawn on a standard size paper, a plan prepared at maximum of 1:4000 scale may be submitted. 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

5A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
9. The survey plan for the proposed subdivision, amalgamation or development of land, shall be prepared in 
compliance with the standards, regulations and shall conform with the conditions stipulated hereunder: 
  
 (1) The minimum plot size of a lot shall be not less than 150 m 2 in extent, unless otherwise specified by the 
Development Plan in effect for the particular Urban Development Area. 
 
 (2) The location of the existing buildings, if any, shall be indicated in the plan. 
  
 (3) The scale of the plan, north line and the assessment num bers of adjoining lots or buildings ought to be clearly 
indicated.  
 
 (4) The means of access to the site and the width of the access roads shall be indicated.  
 
 (5) All existing and proposed drains and water courses sha ll be indicated with the directions of the water flow.   
 
 (6) A drainage system shall be indicated as a scheme to drain off natural water and rainwater and such drainage 
systems shall be connected to a common drain or other common waterways. Where the levels of the existing 
drains are not a receptacle of the outflow of the proposed drainage system, the space to accommodate an 
alternative drainage system shall be indicated in the plan. 
 
(7) When the site has slope angle of 10 degrees or more, the existing contours or spot levels of the site and levels 
of the road shall be indicated in the plan. 
 
(8) When the slopes less than 10 degrees are identified in th e site, the existing contours or spot levels of the site 
and levels of the road may be indicated in the plan if it is deemed necessary by the Relevant Authority.        
 
(9) All boundaries of the plan shall be marked in black, and in a case where any discretion of previous boundary 
lines need to be indicated in the same plan, such lines sh all be marked in red and a note to that effect shall be 
included in the plan.  
 
(10) The previous survey plans, if any, shall be referr ed in the Development Survey Plan for review. Where such 
survey plans are not available, a note to  that effect with the ratification by  the owner of the land and a note in 
respect of the original source used for the preparation of the plan shall be mentioned in the plan.  
 
(11) The Development Survey Plan shall indicate all Street Lines, Building Lines and any other road reservations, 
or limits or any other reservation as may be stipulated in the gazetted Development Plan or imposed by the 
Relevant Authority or Relevant Institutions.   
 
(12) Existing watercourses, manholes, fences or boundaries , Retaining Walls and electricity lines shall be indicated 
in the Development Survey Plan.  
 
(13) The Relevant Authority may request to superimpose th e entire land as a sketch, where a portion of a relatively 
large land is applied for approval.  
 
(14) In the case of any land subdivision, where there are mo re than ten (10) lots which have less than 250 m2 in 
extent, a minimum space of 20 m2 of land shall be allo cated for waste management as per the instruction of 
relevant Local Authority and indicated in the plan. 
 
(15) A space of 7.5 cm x 5.5 cm shall be allocated on the front page of th e plan to record the details of the 
Development Permit. 
 
(16) The Survey Plan shall be prepared  on standard metric size sheets of the international ‘A’ series or legal size 
and the original plan shall be submitted with five certified copies.  
 

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
10. Every person shall comply with the respective Developm ent Plan if available and the planning and development 
regulations stipulated therein, for the purpose of carrying out and/or engaging in any subdivision, amalgamation 
or development in a particular land.  
 
11. In an event the proposed subdivision, amalgamation or development fails to conform to these regulations, the 
Relevant Authority may direct the Developer or his Agent to amend the proposed subdivision, amalgamation or 
development so as to be in conformity with these regulations or any other law.       
 
12. Any land related to agriculture/ horticulture or relate d uses shall not be subdivided, amalgamated or developed 
for any Development Activity specified in the law wit hout obtaining a Development Permit from the Relevant 
Authority as specified in the Regulation 4 (1) in these regulations. 
 
13. 
(1) No person shall carry out or engage in any physical development of the site or any part thereof, violating the 
 terms and conditions of the Development Permit issued in respect to that site by the Relevant Authority.  
 
(2) Electricity, water supply,  storm water and wastew ater disposal system, drainage system and other 
infrastructure facilities shall be provided by the Developer or his Agent through the relevant service agencies in 
compliance with the terms and conditions of the Development Permit.   
14. 
(1) Unless provided otherwise in the Development Plan or  Development Guide Plan a sub-divided lot shall be not 
less than 150 m
2 (6 perches) in extent, 6.0 m in frontage and 12.0 m in depth. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Relevant Authority may at its sole discretion consider to relax 
the minimum site extent or other requirements in respect of an existing land parcel.  
 
(3) Where a subdivision is proposed for the purpose of development of a condominium property, and if such 
subdivided portion is not used for common space, the minimum extent of th at subdivided portion shall be in 
compliance with these regulations.  
 
15.  
(1) In any case, where a permanent bui lding exists in a land that is subject to subdivision, amalgamation or 
development, the minimum requirements for open space, light and ventilation and other requirements for such 
building shall be in compliance with these regulations. 
 
(2) In any case where an existing building is divided due to the subdivision of a land, the Relevant Authority may 
request the Developer or his Agent to furnish a copy of the approved plan of such building. 
 
 
16. A subdivided, amalgamated or developed land lots sha ll be utilized only for the purpose for which the Relevant 
Authority has granted approval, unless stated otherwise.     
 
17. When subdivision, amalgamation or development of land is proposed for a particular site which adjoins a road, 
drain, river, any other water body or water source, the proposed plan for such activity shall comply with the 
reservations and other conditions imposed by the Relevant Authority and Relevant Institutions. 
 
18. 
(1) No site or lot abutting a street less than nine meters (9) in width shall be used for non-residential use or 
construction of any building for such use. However, a street meant to serve one or more lots for non-residential 
use or for construction of any building for such use may be permitted with access less than 9m in width subject 
to be in conformity with the specifications as set out in Form A in Schedule 4. 
 
(2) Every Lot in a residential   subdivision shall have acce ss with an existing or proposed road in compliance with 
the requirements as specified under Form B in Schedule 4 herein. 
 

<!-- page 7 -->

7A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(3) Any carriageway of a road, which is 6.0m or less in width, shall have the same carriageway width throughout 
and the drains and other road infrastructure requirements incidental thereto shall be provided in addition to the 
said carriageway width and shall be reserved from abutting land.  
 
(4) The width of an Access Road shall be decided on the aggregate Lots serv ed by such Access Road as specified 
under Form B in Schedule 4 herein.  
 
(5) When a land is subdivided into a large number of lots  where the width of the main Access Road is required to 
be 9.0m or more, the lots located beyond the point up to which the main Access Road serves, shall be served by 
the Access Roads which have the minimum width of 6.0m.   
 
(6) Every lot or site that is adjacent to the dead end of a road may have frontage less than the width specified in the 
regulations herein, essentially with a minimum width of 3.0m. 
 
19. 
(1) Where Street Lines or Pr oposed Road Widths are not ap plicable for any Access Road of a land, subdivision of 
such land shall be made considering the existing physical width of the Access Road. 
 
(2) Where a land is accessed by a road having a specified St reet Line or Proposed Road Width, the number of Lots 
in a subdivision of such land shall be decided based on the width of the Street Line or Proposed Road Width of 
the Access Road. Widening of such road shall be made  according to the Street Line where Street Lines are 
applicable and if not equally on either side from the centre line of such road as per the Proposed Road Width 
and the land subjected to widening of such road shall be gifted to the Relevant Authority without any monetary 
consideration by a deed of gift for the purpose of widening of the road in accordance with the Annexure VI of 
Form B as set out in Schedule 1 herein.  
 
(3) Where the Authority is of the opinion that undue hardship may be caused to any party, due to compliance with 
the minimum requirement of the width of a road for a residential lot as set out in the Form B in Schedule 4, the 
width of such road may be reduced, subject to the recommendation of the Planning Committee, if: 
 
a. the minimum width of 3.0 m is  available in the access road; or 
b. the proposal is to improve the status of an underserved settlement. 
 
 Provided that, every such street sha ll connect to a public or private road which has a width of not less than 6.0m 
and of which the owner possesses the right of way from such private road.  
 
 The above reduction shall not apply for new land sub divisions. 
 
 20. The minimum width of an Access Road to a Lot in  a new subdivision shall be  in accordance with the Form B in 
Schedule 4 herein for residential   uses.   
 
21. 
(1) In subdivision of a land, an Access Road which is less than 9.0 m in width and more than 30.0 m in length, 
shall be provided with a turning circle of not less than 9.0 m in diameter or a T-turn with a 9.0m span at a 
suitable location on the road to turn the vehicles.   
 
(2) In subdivision of a land, an Acces s Road which is 9.0m or more in wi dth shall be provided with a turning 
circle of 12.0m in diameter or a T-turn with a 12.0m span at a suitable location on the road to turn the 
vehicles.   
  
 
22. When a lot is located adjacent to an intersection of two roads, the corner of such lot shall be rounded off or 
splayed, maintaining a half of the width of each road respectively to either sides from the corner point of the lot as 
may be necessary for the purpose of ensuring the safety of the users of the roads.  

<!-- page 8 -->

8 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
23. 
(1) Where a parcel of land or site to be sub divided ex ceed 1.0 hectare or more, an area of not less than ten per 
centum (10%) of the land or site excluding roads and drains shall be reserved for community, recreation and 
open space uses in an appropriate location for the purpose of such community.  
 
(2) Such reserved space shall be gifted to the Rele vant Authority free of all charge as prescribed in Annexure VI 
of Form B in Schedule 1 herein. 
 
(3) Such reserved space:   
 i. shall be located in an appropriat e location with easy access from every lot; 
 ii. shall not be unusable lots; 
 iii. preferably be located adjacent to environmenta lly sensitive/ pleasing environments (i.e. wetlands & 
waterways etc.) in a case where the subdivided land is located adjacent to such natural features. 
 
(4) If the portion of land required to be reserved fo r community, recreation and open  space uses mentioned in 
Regulation 23 (1) is less than 300 m 2, that particular reserved space shall be used as a reservation of a road, a 
landscaping area or a walking track etc. and it shall be maintained by the community served by such reserved 
space.  
  
24. When a land is subdivided for the purpose of commercial or  industrial uses, if the plot size of each subdivided lot is 
not less than 2,024 m 2 (80 perches) and all the road widths are not less than 9.0m, the land may be subdivided 
without reserving ten per centum (10%) of the land for co mmunity, recreation and open space uses. However, if 
any subdivided parcel of such land is further subdivided, the Developer shall either;   
 
 i. Reserve the ten per centum (10%) of the parcel so subdivided; or 
 ii. Deposit the ten per centum (10%) of the open market value of the parcel so subdivided as at the date of 
request evaluated by a Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein to the designated account held 
by the Relevant Authority. 
 
 25. 
(1) In a residential land sub division, if the minimum land parcel of subdivision is not less than 1,012 m 2 (40 
perches) and the development is limited to two housing units per lot, the land may be subdivided without 
reserving ten per centum (10%) of the land for community, recreation and open space uses. 
 
(2) However, if any of the subdivided parcels mentioned in Regulation 25 (1)  is further subdivided or developed 
with more than two units, the developer shall deposit the ten per centum (10%) of the open market value of the 
parcel so subdivided as at the date of request evaluated by a Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein at 
the designated account held by the Relevant Authority in lieu of providing such space physically within the site. 
 
26. 
(1) In the event that a lake, public pl ayground or seashore etc. which is accessible to the public and which exceeds 
a land extent of 4047 m 2 (1 acre), is located within 0.5 km radius circling the land  to be subdivided, where the  
Relevant Authority so demands, the Developer shall be obliged to deposit a sum equivalent to the open market 
value of the of portion of land which would have been reserved for  community, recreation and open space uses, 
as at the date of request evaluated by a Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3  herein at the designated 
account held by the Relevant Authority in lieu of providing such space physically within the site. 
 
(2) A public open space which is allocated for communi ty and recreational activities may be used for the 
construction of indoor pavilion, swimming pool and building for sp orts and recreational activities and 
community halls, subject to a maximum plot coverage of 25% and the maximum height of 5.0 m of such 
buildings. 
 
(3) In the event that the portion of la nd required to be reserved for community, recreation and open space uses of a 
subdivision does not exceed  a land extent of 300 m 2 (12 perches), alternatively to Regulation 23 (4)  the 

<!-- page 9 -->

9A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Relevant Authority with the recomandation of the Planning Committee and approval of the chairman of the 
Relevant Authority may direct the Developer to deposit a sum equivalent to the open market value of such 
portion of land as at the date of request ev aluated by a Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein, at the 
designated account of Relevant Authority in lieu of providing the open space physically.   
 
(4) Where a land has been subdivided  without providing the ten per cent um (10%) open space, the Relevant 
Authority may permit development or further subdivision of such individual land parcel subject to depositing a 
sum equivalent to the open market value of ten per centum (10%) portion of land which would have been 
reserved for community, recreation and open space uses, as  at the date of request evaluated by a Qualified 
Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein with an additional twenty-five per centum (25%) of service charge in the 
designated account of the Relevant Authority. 
 
(5) The funds collected from such deposits mentioned in the Regulation 24, 25 (2), 26 (1), 26 (3) and 26 (4)  shall 
be exclusively used for the purpos e of providing spaces for community, recreation and open space uses within 
the relevant Urban Development Area by the Relevant Authority.  
  
27. 
(1) The Relevant Authority shall issue a Development Permit with guidelines and conditions for subdivision, 
amalgamation or any other developments within the land. 
 
(2) Certificate of Conformity (CoC) in respect of a land subdivision, amalgamation or development shall be granted 
by the Relevant Authority in pursuance with Regulation 83, provided that the requirements set out in the 
Development Permit are satisfied.  
 
(3) No person shall have the right to advertise, promote or dispose of the land so subdivided to a any other party 
until a CoC is issued by the Relevant Authority.   
 
(4) Prior to commencement of a development activity in a land which exceeds10 acres  in extent, a notice board 
having 2.5 m in length and 1.5 m in width shall be displayed including the details and contact information of the 
owner and Developer and the date and the number of the approved plan by the Relevant Authority. 
 
 
 PART III 
 
Construction, Alteration and Renovation of Buildings 
 
28.  
(1) No person shall carry out any construction, alteration or renovation of a building respect to any Development 
Activity without a Development Permit from the Relevant Authority.   
 
(2) In order to obtain a Development Permit, a Developer or his Agent shall make an application to the Relevant 
Authority according to Form C as set out in Schedule 1 herein, together with Annexure I and II of Form C 
and written declarations as prescribed in Annexure III to VI of Form C endorsed by a Qualified Person as set 
out in Schedule 3 herein.  
 
(3) An application with the relevant documents shall be  forwarded to the Relevant Authority online wherever 
possible. 
 
(4) Every application shall be forwarded to the Relevant Authority with the relevant fee as specified under 
Schedule 2 herein. 
 
29. The Developer or his Agent shall submit a detailed development proposal in an appropriate format if it is deemed 
necessary by the Relevant Authority as a consideration for issuing the Development Permit. Such proposal shall 
comply with the technical requirements prescribed by the Relevant Institutions and the other requirements 
specified in the PPC.  
 

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
30. 
 (1) A Development Permit issued under these regulations shall be valid for a period of one year. 
 
(2) Provided however, that the Relevant Authority on request by the Developer or his Agent, may extend the 
validity period of a permit for a further period not exceeding 2 years if the Relevant Authority is satisfied that 
the Development Activity referred to in the Development Permit has been commenced but not been completed 
due to unforeseeable circumstances.    
 
(3) An application for renewal of a Development Permit shall be made as set out in  Form D in Schedule 1 herein, 
if applicable along with the Post-Permit Follow-up and Observation Report obtained under Regulation 82 of 
these regulations and the fee shall be paid as set out in Schedule 2 herein.    
 
(4) The validity period of the Development Permit shall expire after a lapse of three (3) years. 
 
 
(5) In any case if the Developer or his Agent desires to further extend the period of the Development Permit upon 
the expiry of the validity period of three (3) years, that was initially accorded thereunder, such Developer or his 
Agent may apply for a fresh Development Permit along with the copies of the previous Development Permit and 
the approved building plan and the relevant fee shall be made as set out in Schedule 2 herein.  
 
(6) Such application shall be made as per the Regulation 28 (2) mentioned above.   
 
(7) Where the Developer or his Agent is desirous of tran sferring the Development Permit along with all privileges 
afforded thereto, to a any other  party or any person connected to such Developer or his Agent during the 
validity period of the Development Permit, a written request to that effect along with an affidavit and relevant 
documents shall be forwarded to the Relevant Authority by the Developer or his Agent to whom the permit was 
issued, together with the relevant fee as specified in Schedule 2 herein.   
 
(8) Every plan shall:  
 
 a. be prepared on standard metric size sh eets of the international ‘A’ series;     
 b.  include a title setting out the purpose of the development of such building or premises to which 
the plan relates;   
 c.  be submitted with four original copies. 
 
(9) The Developer or his Agent shall be obligated to provide additional copies of plans, specifications, relevant 
documents or any other information that may be deemed necessary by the Relevant Authority.  
 
(10) A sketch plan of the surrounding area which is sufficient to locate the development site, shall be provided with 
the application.  
 
(11) The Developer or his Agent shall retain copies of the approved survey plan, approved building plan and relevant 
Development Permits at the site and shall present such copies to an officer of th e Relevant Authority where 
necessary.  
 
31.  For the purpose of these regulations, buildings types are defined in the following table. 
Number 
Type 
Floor Area (m2) Characteristics Main 
Type 
Sub 
Type 
31.1 A - - ²  A building consisting of G+4 floors or more or a 
building exceeding 15.0m in height 
  

<!-- page 11 -->

11A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
31.2 B - - ²  A building having walls or columns located bordering 
the boundary line 
²  A building having a basement. 
²  A building having any type of deep foundations 
including piles, cylinders, caissons or soil 
improvement involving excavation and backfills or 
raft and strip foundations. 
²  A building with a roof span exceeding 10.0m 
²  A place of public assembly or a public building. 
²  Building which is wind sensitive such as warehouse or 
factory 
²  Building construction on a ground where the maximum 
slope is between 20 to 45 degrees 
²  Buildings for which dynamic response need to be 
considered. 
  
31.3 a C C I Residential building 
up to 500m2 and 
Non-residential 
buildings up to 400m
2 
which do not fall 
within Category B 
²  A building without a basement or a building having a 
foundation excavation not exceeding 2.0m depth. 
²  Having retaining walls with earth retaining height less 
than 3.0m 
²  Building construction on a ground where the maximum 
slope is less than 20 degrees 
  
31.3 b  C II Residential buildings 
up to 400m2 and 
Non-residential 
buildings up to 300m
2 
which do not fall 
within Category B 
²  A building without a basement or a building having a 
foundation excavation not exceeding 2.0m depth. 
²  Having retaining walls with earth retaining height less 
than 2.0m. 
²  Building construction on a ground where the maximum 
slope is less than 20 degrees 
  
31.3 c C III Residential or Non-
residential buildings 
up to 100m2 
which do not fall 
within Category B 
²  Maximum G + 1 floors 
²  Having retaining walls with earth retaining height less 
than 2.0m. 
²  Building construction on a ground where the maximum 
slope is less than 10 degrees 
Number 
Type 
Floor Area (m2) Characteristics Main 
Type 
Sub 
Type 
32. All building floor plans, sections and elevations sh all be drawn as per the scale specified for each drawing 
hereunder: 
 
 a. site plan - 1:1000 or a suitable scale depending on the extent of the land. 
 
 b. floor plans and sections of a building - 1:100 except  where the size of the floor is extensive to be drawn 
on the required standard size paper. In such instances, the Relevant Authority may accept drawings 
prepared to a scale not smaller than 1:200. 
  
33. A plan corresponding to any development in relation to building works submitted for the purpose of obtaining a 
Development Permit shall include the details set out in Regulations 34, 35, 36, 37 and 38 in recommended 
colours and symbols.  
 
 

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
SITE PLAN 
 
34. A site plan shall be prepared to indicate the details stipulated hereunder: 
 
(1) boundaries of the development premises, the length and the width of the premises and distance between the 
proposed and existing building to the boundary with dimensions in figures; 
 
(2) the scale of the plan, the north- line and the assessment numbers of premises relating to adjoining lots or 
buildings, as may be stipulated in the approved survey plan;  
 
(3)  the means of access to the site; 
 
(4) all Street Lines, Building Lines, road widening lines, service roads, drainage and other reservations and such 
other details as may be stipulated in the gazetted Development Plan or imposed by the Relevant Authority or 
Relevant Institutions;  
 
(5) distance from the proposed building to all existing drains, watercourses, sewer lines, manholes, fences, 
Retaining Walls and slopes within the Lot and in adjoining Lots with dimensions in figures; 
 
(6) the highest known flood level of the site as recorded by the Irrigation Department, Sri Lanka Land Development 
Corporation or any other institution if such land is subject to inundation; 
 
(7) all existing contours or spot levels of the site and of adjoining roads and lands, clearly indicating the slopes 
steeper than 45 degrees and exceeding one and a half meters (1.5m) in height; 
      
(8) any formation of a new slope or embankment and the provision of a Retaining Wall or other structure to 
stabilize such slope or embankment, if such slope or embankment is taller than the prevailing;  
 
(9) proposed surface or ground drain and its point of discharge or connection to an existing drain or a watercourse; 
 
 (10) proposed sewer line and manhole and their respective connecting point to an existing sewer line or manhole; 
 
 (11) proposed landscape arrangements; 
 
 (12) all parking arrangements for the proposed development. 
 
FLOOR PLAN 
35. Floor plans of each floor and roof plan of the building shall be prepared to indicate the details stipulated hereunder:   
 
(1) labels specifying the purpose for which every part of the floor is to be used; 
 
(2) the type of materials to be used for the walls, superstructure and floor slabs of the building or in the building 
works and the maximum permissible live loads that such floor slabs are designed to carry; 
 
(3) all Rooms, compartments, corridors, staircases, fire comp artments, lift cores, verandas and roof terrace etc. of a 
building and the thickness of the wall and columns thereof; 
 
(4) separate units clearly marked in different colours 
 
(5) dimensions of every Air Well, back yard, courtyard and open spaces in and around the building and the distances 
from the External Walls of the building to the centre line of road/s, to the road reservations and to the drainage 
reservations within the lot or adjoining thereto; 
 
(6) dimensions of spaces between all walls, columns and piers; 

<!-- page 13 -->

13A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(7) the positions of all sanitary appliances, vent pipe s and floor traps and their connections to drain lines; 
 
(8) surface drainage in or around the building with arrows indicating the dir ection of flow of water and the outlet 
drains into which the water discharges and the sizes of such outlet drains; 
 
(9) the means of escape from fire, fire assembly areas, fire lobbies, locations of fire EXIT signs, fire engine access 
and hard standing locations etc. as per the regulatory requirements; 
 
 a.  Fire protection measures are taken in respect of  the building including the location of external pillar 
hydrants, breeching inlets and fire extinguishing equipment etc.; 
 b.  Installation of lightning protection measures and equipotential bonding & earthling requirements in 
accordance with the local and international standards;  
 c.  Designating the location of storage of water for firefighting within or outside of the building; 
  
(10) every part of each floor of the building that is to  be air-conditioned, mechanically ventilated or pressurized 
and, where such part is to be air conditioned, whether air-condition shall be by means of a centralized system 
or individual/multi split unit and wherever possible the position/s of the Air-Conditioning equipment/units, 
mechanical ventilation equipment, and condensate water discharge locations; 
 
(11) allocated space for parking bays , ramps, staircases, landings, lift/ es calator pits, generators, electrical 
transformers, electrical distribution points, metering points, septic tanks, soakage pits, sewer treatment plants, 
water storage tank, appliances of centralised or decentralised hot water systems, appliances of central heating 
systems, service ducts, fuel storage, central point of LP Gas distribution, communication and network 
equipment, security and fire alarm equipment, security huts,  and space for postal boxes etc.;  
 
(12) all pipes and appurtenance used for harvesting rainwater, their dimensions, locations and capacity of the 
storage and the direction of the flow of the water; 
 
(13) requirements that shall be adhered in the plan as per the Apartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973 and its 
amendments, in the case of a condominium property; 
 
(14) the positions of garbage disposal point/s;  
 
SECTION DRAWINGS 
 
36. The cross, longitudinal and other section drawings of the building clearly delineating the disposition of the 
adjoining ground shall be prepared incorporating the details stipulated hereunder:  
 
(1) types of materials used and the thickness of all walls , floors, roofs, ceilings, foundations, pillars, beams, roof 
terrace and other related parts of the building. 
 
(2) existing ground level and where the building site is to be raised or lowered, any proposed new ground level 
with a statement regarding the new ground level where it may affect the stability of any of the adjoining lands 
or buildings and the steps taken to safeguard the same; 
 
(3) dimensions in figures of the distances from any exis ting or required Retaining Wall or slopes of the site, 
which exceeds 1.5m in height, to the proposed building, the lot boundaries thereof and any existing building 
on adjoining land that is within 10.0 m from the Retaining Wall or slope and is nearest thereto;  
 
 (4) dimensions in figures of the doors, windows or ventilation openings, the heights of every floor, the ceiling 
heights and the Ground Floor level and footway level or levels of the building in relation to the existing 
ground and street level or levels thereof, and the cl ear distances between the Lot boundaries and the External 
Walls of the building.  
 

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
ELEVATION 
 
37. The front, rear and side elevations  of the building shall be drawn including the details stipulated hereunder:  
 
(1) all the External Walls, external columns, parapet wa lls and doors, windows or ventilation openings, canopies, 
balconies and the roof of the building with dimensions in figures and the types of materials to be used to 
construct the same;   
  
(2) part elevation or elevations of every existing building within the premises or in an adjoining premise 
indicating its height, floor levels, external walls, doors, windows, roof and other external and visible features 
with indications of the types of materials used in the construction thereof in special locations where it may be 
deemed necessary by the Relevant Authority;   
 
(3) the levels of every adjoining Footway, Veranda Way, street and ground of the building and the levels of all 
proposed counterfort walls of the Footway, Veranda Way, street and ground.  
 
 
STRUCTURAL DETAILS AND CALCULATIONS 
 
38. A Structural Design Brief related to the proposed build ing works shall be prepared and certified by the Relevant 
Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein and be submitted to the Relevant Authority. However, the detailed 
structural engineering design of any building work shall be submitted to the Relevant Authority in the form of 
plans and sections, together with a copy of the design calculations  including forces exerte d by lifts & escalators 
where it may be deemed necessary by the Relevant Authority. Where such design is submitted to the Relevant 
Authority, an electronic copy shall also be submitted.  
 
39. The detailed structural engineering drawings and design calculations shall be prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of these regulations and any other written law relating to building construction and be certified by the 
Relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein and shall include the followings: 
        
(1) the superimposed load for which each floor system or part thereof has been designed; 
 
(2) the results of any soil test carried out, the calculati ons for determination of soil bearing capacity and complete 
boring investigation and details of the soil, given that a Geotechnical Investigation shall be carried out even 
for a single storey building where the slope is more than 10 degrees or in the event of soil is instable. 
 
(3) he type of Foundations to be used;  
 
(4) the type of piles, method of pile drilling and type of machinery which is to be used for piling work, if 
applicable.  
 
DESIGNS FOR BUILDING SERVICES 
 
40. 
(1)  A building, where the floor area is 500m
2 or more, or where the Relevant  Authority deems necessary, the 
clearances from the Relevant Institutions shall be obtained for required building services of such developments. 
 
(2) The detailed building services engineering designs for electrical distribution, plumbing, escalators/ lifts, 
lightning protection, Ventilation, Air-conditioning, heating, sewer systems, drainage, fire protection, 
communication and networking, and security and fire alarms or any building service applicable for the proposed 
building work shall be prepared as per these regulations , any other written law/ regulation and applicable local 
and international standards. However, if it is deemed necessary by the Rele vant Authority, such designs in the 
form of plans and sections, together with a copy of the design brief prepared and certified by the Relevant 
Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 shall be submitted to the Relevant Authority. Where such design is 
submitted to the Relevant Authority an electronic copy shall also be submitted. 
 

<!-- page 15 -->

15A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(3) The detailed building services engineering designs mentioned in the Regulation 40 (2)  shall be clearly 
drawn to depict the respective building services design.  All extensions to the existing building services shall 
be indicated clearly and new additions shall be marked in red colour.  
 
41. Fire requirements specified by the Relevant Authority or relevant Fire Services Department shall be complied for:   
 a.  residential buildings exceeding 15.0m in height or has five (05) units or more 
  
 b.  non- residential buildings exceeding 15.0 m in height or 500 m 2 of floor area. 
  
 c.  Public Buildings 
 
EXISTING BUILDING 
 
42. Where any building work consists of repair or alteratio n to an existing building or any addition thereto, a plan of 
such building work shall be submitted under these regulations, if so required by the Relevant Authority, shall be 
accompanied with a certificate by  a Relevant Qualified Person  as set out in Schedule 3 herein  to the effect that he 
has examined the Building and in his opinion, the Building is capable of bearing such loads which may be increased 
or altered by reason of such repair, alteration or addition. 
 
43. 
(1) All extensions to the existing building works shall be in dicated clearly and new additions shall be marked in red 
colour.  
 
(2) All parts of an existing building which are to be removed shall be marked in black colour dotted lines on the 
plan. 
 
GREEN BUILDINGS 
 
44. 
(1) Green Building Certificate  issued by the Urban Development Authority shall be    obtained in respect of 
every Development Activity which co ntains a floor area of 1000 m
2 or more except industrial buildings and 
factories etc.  
 
(2) An application for obtaining a Green Building Certificate from the Urban Development Authority  shall be 
forwarded according to the Form E as set out in the Schedule 1 herein, prepared by a Qualified Person as set 
out in Schedule 3 herein together with the Form C as set out in the Schedule 1 and relevant documents.  
 
(3) Every Development Activity specified in Regulation 44 (1)  shall comply with the  “Green Certificate 
Level” of the Green Building Rating of Urban Development Authority as set out in Schedule 5 herein. 
 
(4) Every application shall be forwarded to the Au thority with the relevant fee as specified under Schedule 2 
herein. 
 
PART IV 
 
Planning, Computation and Designing of Buildings 
 
45. The Permissible Floor Area for a development within any plot of land shall depend on the factors enumerated 
hereunder:   
 
 a. the extent of land; 
 b. the length of the boundary of the land directly abutting the road, from which the land has right of way 
(road frontage); 
 c. width of the road that provides access to the land; 
 d. the Zone Factor which indicates the deve lopment density specified for the area; and 
e. the other conditions imposed by the other relevant Laws or regulations. 

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
46. 
(1) The Permissible Floor area of a building located in a lot; 
  
a. where a gazetted Development Plan is available, shall be computed based on Form A or B as set out in 
Schedule 6 herein with respect to the Zone Factor mentioned in such Development Plan.  
 
b. where a gazetted Development Plan is not available, shall be computed based on Form C or D as set 
out in Schedule 6 herein with respect to the Development Zone specified in the Draft Development 
Plan. 
 
(2) The Permissible Floor Area of a development shall ex clude the spaces allocated for parking facilities as per the 
regulatory requirement, air-conditioning plants and other service machinery serving for functioning of the 
building.  
 
(3) In case where, the space allocated for parking exceed s the regulatory requirement which is specified in the 
Regulation 73, such excess parking space shall be included in the Permissible Floor Area. 
 
(4) The floor area of the roof terrace  shall be included in the Permissible Floor Area where it is used for an 
activity other than reserving for Ancillary Facilities of such Building. 
 
(5) Floor space of veranda, Balcony or cantilever etc. havi ng more than 1.2m overhanging width shall be included 
in the Permissible Floor Area. 
 
47. The Permissible Floor Area for the proposed development shall be computed based on the extent of the land plot 
excluding the portion that falls within the street line/s.     
 
48. The Plot Coverage; 
 
(1) where a gazetted Development Plan is available, shall comply with the requirements specified in such plan. 
However, the plot coverage of a building having a height of 50 m or more shall comply with the requirements 
specified in Form E as set out in Schedule 6 herein if such requirement is less than the requirement specified 
in the gazetted Development Plan or draft Development Plan or Development Guide Plan.  
 
(2) where a gazetted Development Plan is not available, shall comply with the requirements specified in Form E 
as set out in Schedule 6 herein.  
 
49. The width of the Street Line shall be considered as the width of the access road for the purpose of computations of 
the Permissible Floor Area, where there is no Street Line which is applicable for a road, the existing physical width 
of the road from which the land has right of way, shall be considered for the same. 
 
50. Where the land is facing more than one road from which such land has right of way, road frontage can be 
considered as applicable to the situation in the following manner for computation of the Permissible Floor Area:   
 
(1) The land is facing two or more independent roads having minimum width of 6 m or more, the road frontage 
shall be considered as the sum of the road frontage f acing the main access road a nd the portion(s) of road 
frontage of the other road(s) computed  proportionate to the ratio between the width of the main access road to 
the width of the respective other road(s). 
 
(2) Where the land is facing two or more independent ro ads each having width less than 6 m, the road frontage 
shall be computed as the sum of th e road frontage facing the main access road and the width(s) of the other 
road(s). 
 
(3) Where, the land is facing one or more by-roads of the main access road although not connected to two roads, 
the road frontage shall be considered as the sum of the road frontage facing the main access road and the width
(s) of such by-road(s). 
 
51. In case where the area within the Building Line of a lo t is 80% or more of such lot, a maximum of two storied 
(G+1) building may be permitted to construct within such  lot, subject to obtained cl earance from the Relevant 
Authority/ Relevant Institution. 

<!-- page 17 -->

17A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
52. When an area of 20% or more of a lot is within the Building Line, the Planning Committee may relax any of the 
regulatory requirements specified in these regulations. 
 
53. Where any proposed development may cause an adverse impact on the vehicular traffic flow in the area, 
environmental conditions of the surroundings, social and cultural values, archaeological and historical values, 
architectural and aesthetics values, fire risk, safety of the public and image a nd character of the area, the Relevant 
Authority may limit the extent of any development, notwithstanding the proposal for such development is in 
compliance with the regulatory requirements specified in these regulations. 
 
54. The expected Green Building Rating level for any development activity shall be computed as set out in Schedule 5 
herein.  
 
 OPEN SPACES AND BUILDING SETBACKS 
 
 55.  
(1) Rear Space and Side Space of all proposed developments shall be maintained in conformity to the 
specifications given in the Form E as set out in Schedule 6. 
 
(2) In a development where an open space is intended to be provided on the site for the purpose of maintenance of 
the building or separating it from adjoining properties, such open space shall not be less than 1.0 m in width. 
 
 (3) In case where a Building Line, a Str eet Line or any other road reservation is not prescribed for a particular  
road/s to which a plot of land is adjoining, the proposed building development in such plot of land shall 
maintain a 1.0 m Setback from the edge of such road/s. 
 
(4) 
a. The 50% of the open space at outsid e of the building which is required  to be maintained as per these 
regulations shall not be covered by any type of impermeable material but shall preferably be 
maintained as a green turf or be covered with appropriate soft landscape materials. 
 
b. A Landscape Plan for the proposed development prepared by a Qualified Person as set out in  
Schedule 3 shall be submitted where:  
 i. such development exceeds 10,000m
2 floor area; or 
 
  
 ii. such development is proposed in a land  which exceeds 1.0 hectare of land extent; or 
 
  
 iii. such development is located in a zone wher e special landscaping requirements are specified 
in the gazetted Development Plan or Development Guide Plan.  
 
56.  
(1) Where a development is proposed in a plot of land which is in irregular shape or it is impracticable to provide an 
open space to the entire width of the build ing in rear or where the site is abutting several roads, the Relevant 
Authority may, as it deems appropriate, direct the Deve loper to provide an altern ative means of open space at 
the rear of the site.  
 
 (2) Any plot of land which has an irregular shape shall have a minimum of 3.0 m frontage and the development 
will be permitted towards inside of the land beyond the point where the width of land becomes 6.0 m wide. 
 
(3) In case where the rear side of a plot of land is adj acent to a reservation of a river, canal, wetland, forest or 
similar natural feature prescribed in the gazetted Development Plan or Draft Development Plan or by the 
Relevant Authority or any other Relevant Institution, such reservation may be considered for calculating the 
rear space requirement specified in these regulations.  
 
57. 
(1) Any building work which involves construction on the boundary of a plot of land, such construction shall be a 
Blind Wall and prior to construction of such Blind Wall, the Developer or his Agent shall obtain a Development 
Permit for such construction by submitting an application to the Relevant Authority along with:  

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
a. a written declaration from a Relevant Qualified Person as set out in the Schedule 3 to the effect that 
the construction shall not cause any damage to the adjoining properties;    
b. an Insurance Policy to cover all damages which may occur to adjoining properties if the building 
comprises of more than 4 floors as requested by the Relevant Authority;   
c. a Letter of Indemnity as set out in  Annexure VII of Form C as set out in Schedule 1.  
 
(2) The height of a Boundary  Wall or any erection on the boundary of the site shall not exceed 2.0 m from the 
existing ground level excluding the gate, unless otherwise specified in the gazetted Development Plan or draft 
Development Plan or Development Guide Plan. However Live Fences (foliage or hedges etc.), iron fences or 
wire mesh shall be permitted.  
 
(3) A minimum of 1.0m distance shall be maintained be tween the boundary of a lot a nd the excavation line of the 
Basement subject to:   
 
a. 1.0 m distance may be increased upon the recommendation of structural/ geo-technical engineer; 
b. if a Building Line, Street Line or any other road reservation is applicable for a plot of land, the 
excavation for such Basement floor can be only up to such Building Line, Street Line or any other 
road reservation; and   
c. if any pilling works related to a building with a basement are required, the clearances for such 
works shall be obtained from the National Building Research Organization.  
 
58. 
(1) All constructions shall be in compliance with the Str eet Lines, Building Lines or any other road reservation 
specified in the relevant gazetted Development Plan, Draft Development Pl an or Development Guide Plan or 
as prescribed by the Relevant Authority or by a Relevant Institution. 
 
(2) Where the owner agrees to gift the land, which falls within the Street Line, the Relevant Authority may 
consider the full width of the Street Line as the physical width of the ro ad when determining the Permissible 
Floor Area of the development. 
 
59. No part of any Building or a fixture shall project: -   
 
a. over a street; or 
 
b. beyond a Street Line /acquisition line specified in the gazetted Development Plan, Draft 
Development Plan or Development Guide Plan or as prescribed by the Relevant Authority or any 
other Relevant Institution.  
 
60. 
(1) The overhangs, canopies, wings or other sun-shading devices of a building may be permitted to a maximum of 
1.2 m beyond the Building Line, or towards the rear space provided that it does not project beyond the Street 
Line. 
 
(2) Where a Balcony or a terrace is faced to an adj acent property, a minimum of 1.0 m distance shall be 
maintained from the outer edge of such Balcony or terrace to the relevant boundary.      
 
(3) Where any space provided for a Balcony or a similar us e is built up to the boundary of the adjoining property, 
such boundary shall be considered as a Blind Wall and minimum of 2 m height Guard Wall shall be 
constructed.  
 
61. 
(1) For the purpose of these regulations, the side which is furthest from the road having access to the plot of land 
on which the building is situated shall be considered as the rear of such building. 
 
(2) Where the building has access from more than one road , unless otherwise directed by the Relevant Authority, 
the side which is furthest from the widest road from which the plot of land has right of way shall be 
considered as the rear of such building.   
 

<!-- page 19 -->

19A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(3) Where the rear space of a building is abutting to a pub lic road or a private road from which the plot of land 
has right of way and when such road has a width of 6.0m or more, it may not be mandatory to provide the 
rear space.  
 
(4) Any construction that obstructs the light a nd ventilation of a rear space, mentioned in the Regulation 61 (1) 
and 61 (2) shall not be permitted except the open well and an additional spiral stairway for emergency exit. 
 
(5) A swimming pool which does not exceed 50% of the extent of the re ar space shall be permitted where the 
width of the rear space is 3.0m or more. 
 
62. Any covered/ uncovered footway, ar cade or veranda of a building shall:  
 
 a. be located only within the lot; and 
 b. continue along the entire portion of the building abu tting the street or be as directed by the Relevant 
Authority.   
 
63. Where a building is erected at a junc tion of two streets and where the degree of splay or rounding off is not specified 
in the gazetted Development Plan or Draft Development Plan or Development Guide Plan, the corner of such 
Building shall be splayed or rounded off as specified in Regulation 22 to a height not less than 6.0m above the 
street level.  
 
64. Where a footway or any open space has been provided for the maintenance of a building, such  footway or space 
shall not be used for any other purpose. Construction of a roof above the full length or part of such footway or open 
space, in a manner that may reduce the space of such footway or open space shall not be permitted.   
 
INTERNAL DIMENSIONS OF BUILDINGS 
 
65. The floor area of any habitable room in a residential building shall be in accordance with the requirements specified 
in the Schedule 7 herein.  
   
66. 
(1) The height of a building and the number of floors thereof shall be in accordance with   the provisions of these 
regulations, unless otherwise specified in the Gazetted Development Plan or Draft Development Plan or 
Development Guide Plan or by a Relevant Institute.  
 
(2) Unless otherwise specified in a Gazetted Development Plan or Draft Development Plan or Development 
Guide Plan the maximum height of a building in an Existing Lot shall not exceed 10.0 m, where:  
 
 a. the extent of the land is less than 150m 2; or 
 b. the land gets access from a road where the width is less than 3.0 m; or 
 c.  the road frontage of the land is less than 6.0 m.   
 
67. 
(1) The minimum height of a room in a residential building shall:  
 
a. not be less than 2.8 m in average and have minimum of 2.4 m at the lowest point for living rooms, 
bed rooms and kitchens; 
b. not be less than 2.2 m for bathrooms, lavatories , water closets, verandas, balconies, terraces and 
garages. 
 
(2) The height of a Ground Floor room in a shop shall not be less than 3.0 m and the height of an upper floor 
room shall not be less than 2.8 m in average and minimum of 2.4 m at the lowest point. 
 
(3) The height of a classroom in a school shall not be less than 3.5 m in average and minimum of 2.5 m at the 
lowest point. 
 
(4) The height of a room used for the accommodation of patients in a hospital shall not be less than 3.5 m in 
average and minimum of 2.8 m at the lowest point. 

<!-- page 20 -->

20 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(5) The height of a room in a Factory shall not be less than 3.5 m in average and minimum of 2.8 m at the lowest 
point.  
 
(6) 
a. In a building other than any of those specified in Regulations 67 (1) to 67 (5)  of these regulations, the 
height of a room on the Ground Floor shall not be less than 2.8 m and any part of an upper floor shall not 
be less than 2.4 m. 
b.  Except in Regulation 67 (6-a) , where any roof terrace is used as a covered garden, the height of such 
covered garden space shall not be more than 2.6 m. 
 
(7) 
a. The minimum clear  height of a Basement or Semi-basement floor shall not be less than 2.4 m for 
parking spaces, stores and spaces used for utility services. 
b. If a Basement floor is used for purpose other than uses mentioned in the Regulation 67 (7–a), it shall be 
constructed in accordance with these regulations  and other conditions imposed by the Relevant 
Authority. 
     
(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Regulation 67 (6) and 67 (7), a building or part thereof intended to be 
used for car parking purposes except on the Ground Floor, the minimum height of any such building or part 
thereof including the underside of the ceiling, beams, ducts, sprinkler, heads, service pips, lightings and 
fixtures etc. shall be not less than 2.4 m.    
 
(9) The minimum height of any covered footway constructed within a building, shall be not less than 2.8 m 
below which only the following items may project if th e underside of such items are not less than 2.5 m 
above the footway paving: 
 
a. beams; 
b. stairways and landings; 
c. screens;  
d. signboards or advertisement; or  
e. light bulbs, fans and similler elements  
 
68. 
(1) The minimum width of the stairs and the minimum dimensions of treads and risers shall be in conformity 
with the specifications given in the Schedule 8.  
 
(2) 
a. Where a Building is not a Public Building, the minimum height of a hand rail shall be not less  
than 1.0 m. 
b. Where a Building is a Public Building, the minimum height of a hand rail shall be not less than 1.1 m. 
 
69. 
(1) A vertical transportation system shall be designed and installed for buildings exceeding four floors or more than 
15.0 m in height by the relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3  in compliance with required 
standards specified in Regulation 69 (2) to 69 (7).  
 
(2) A vertical transportation system shall be in compliance to relevant national and international safety standards.  
 
(3) A veritical trasportation system shall be de signed based on an acceptable traffic analysis.  
 
(4) Every hospital (irrespective of height of the building) having more than one floor level shall be provided with 
one (1) or more bed lifts. 
  
(5) The lift/lifts installed at Public Bu ildings shall meet the requirements in  accordance with the Protection of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, No. 28 of 1996 and provisions of Extra Ordinary Gazette Notification 
No. 1467/15 dated on 17.10.2006. 
 

<!-- page 21 -->

21A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(6) 
a. A building which is less than 15m in height shall be  facilitated with fire emergency return operation and 
where the building is to be occupied with disable or elderly people, at least one lift shall be a Fireman’s lift 
for serving maximum 900 m
2 floor area.  
 
b. A building which is 15 m or more in height shall be provided with Fireman’s lifts and Firefighting lifts for 
emergency evacuation and for provision of transportation facilities for fire fighters. Such lifts shall be 
installed in fire lobbies rated for 2 hours and accessible to firemen. The lift shall be made with fire retarded 
material and the landing doors shall be rated for 1 hour against fire. At least one Fireman’s lift shall be 
installed for every 900 m
2 floor area. 
 
(7) Every passenger and goods lift, escalat or or moving walk shall be tested for safeties according to the safety 
regulation and to the manufacturer’s instructions and commissioning test for the buildings exceeding 30 m in 
height shall be done in presence of the Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein and the certificate of the 
same shall be forwarded along with the application for CoC as per the Regulation 83 (2) herein.  
 
LIGHT AND VENTILATION 
 
70. 
(1) Every Building shall be provided with:  
 
a. natural lighting by one or more means eg: glazed windows, skylights, fa nlights, doors or any other 
natural light transmitting media approved by the Relevant Authority; and 
b. natural ventilation by one or more means eg: windows, skylights, fanlights, doors, louvres or ventilation 
openings etc.    
 
(2) The distance between the means for natural light and ventilation in a Room of a building and the opposite 
boundary of the open space, shall be maintained as specified in the Form E of the Schedule 6 herein. 
 
(3) The dimensions of windows or openings of a building through which natural light and ventilation is obtained 
into a room or space shall be such that, the area of such windows and ope nings shall not be less than 1/5 of 
the floor area of such room or space and at least 50% of such openings or windows shall be openable. 
 
(4) Every such window or opening shall be openable to:  
 
a. an area which opens to sky; or 
b. a public road or a street from which the building has right of way; or 
c. a courtyard, open space or Air we ll located within the building. 
 
(5) When the building is used for a Factory, workshop or Warehouse where there is no regular human habitation, 
no part of a Room in such building served by such window or opening shall be:  
 
a. more than 12.0 m away from such opening in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the opening. 
Further no part of such Room shall be more than 5.0 m away from the edge of the opening in a direction 
parallel to the plane of the opening;  
b. more than 9.0 m vertically away from a source, if such source is a ventilation device in the roof of the 
Room or other natural ventilation.  
 
(6) With respect to a building other than specified in Regulation 70 (5), no part of a Room of such building served 
by the sources mentioned in Regulation 70 (4) above shall be more than 10.0 m away from such opening in a 
direction perpendicular to the plane of the opening, ev en though artificial light and ventilation is provided. 
Further no part of such room shall be more than 3.0m away from the edge of the opening in a direction parallel 
to the plane of the opening. 
 
(7) 
a. Where the sources of natural light and ventilation open upon a Balcony, veranda or porch, the depth of 
the Room served by such sources shall not exceed 10 .0 m from the outer face of the enclosure wall of 
the Balcony, veranda or porch; 

<!-- page 22 -->

22 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
b. The front of the Balcony, veranda or porch specified in Regulation 70 (7- a)  shall have an opening of 
75% of the height between the floor level and ceiling level of such Balcony, veranda or porch to absorb 
external air. 
 
71. 
(1) An air-well or a courtyard meant for obtaining natura l light and ventilation for any Room/s or utility room/s 
shall comply with the requirements as set out in Schedule 9 herein. 
     
(2) The internal Air wells or courtyards provided for th e purpose of natural light and ventilation shall not be 
obstructed.  
 
(3) Where the shortest side of the Air well is less than 5.0 m, overhangs, canopies, sun shading devices, eaves or 
balconies projected over such short side shall not exceed 0.5 m.     
 
(4) The floor of an internal courtyard shall either be pave d or turfed and maintained as an internal garden with a 
proper drainage system.   
 
(5) The minimum distance between the means of natural light and ventilation for water-closets, toilets or 
bathrooms and the opposite boundary of the open space shall not be less than 1.0 m.  
  
(6) Unless otherwise specified in the Code of Fire, the minimum dimensions of an opening for natural light and 
ventilation for enclosed staircase, corridor or lobby shall be in accordance with Regulation 70 (3). 
 
(7) A Terrace House of depth greater than 12.0m shall have permanent means of ventilation from front to rear by 
suitable vents in all front, back and cross walls at each floor and such vents shall have a net opening area of not 
less than 0.5 m
2. 
 
(8) For the purpose of determining light and ventilation requirements, any room may be considered as a portion of 
an adjoining room where half of the common wall is opened/exposed and unobstructed. 
 
(9) Where any room is located in a Basement and is in a position to obtain natural light and ventilation, such 
room shall have at least 1/3 of the height of its External Walls above the ground level and requirements of the 
Regulation 70 (3) shall be fulfilled.  
 
MECHANICAL VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING AND ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING 
 
72. 
(1) Where Air-Conditioning, Mechanical Ventilation or artificial lighting is installed or intended to be installed in a 
Building, such installations shall be in accordance with the relevant provisi ons of these regulations considering 
the particular type of use of the building or part thereof;  and shall be designed, installed under the supervision 
of the Relevant Qualified Persons as set out in Schedule 3 herein.  
 
(2) In case where a building or part th ereof is currently served by an Air Conditioning unit, Mechanical Ventilation 
system or artificial lighting and if such service is inte nded to be discontinued, an approval shall be obtained by 
fulfilling the requirements specified in Regulation 70 and 71 herein for obtaining natural light and ventilation. 
  
(3) Where fresh air is obtained by mech anical means by supplying a minimum of three (03) air changes per hour in 
a room used for residential purposes, the area of openings of the natural ventilation source may be reduced to 
half of that is specified in Regulation 70 (3), but shall be not less than 0.5 m2.  
 
(4) Except as set out in Regulation 70, Mechanical Ventilation shall be provided in every room of non-residential 
purpose, staircase, corridor or lo bby where the relevant requirements for natural ventilation under these 
regulations are not fulfilled. 

<!-- page 23 -->

23A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(5) 
a. Where Air Conditioning, Mechanical Ventilation or artificial lighting is installed in a building, a 
minimum of one third (1/3) of the area on every floor of such building shall have openings to benefit 
from natural source of ventilation.  
b. Where underground constructions are involved in a development, 100% of the underground area shall 
be provided with Mechanical Ventilation and artific ial lighting. In such case a generator shall be 
installed to facilitate emergency power requirements.  
c. Where an Air Conditioning outlet/ outdoor unit is installed, the minimum distance between such outlet/ 
outdoor unit and the boundary of the adjacent property shall be not less than 2.3 m.  
d. Where twenty-four hours (24) exhaust fans are in op eration in rooms, the distance between the External 
Walls on which the exhaust fans are installed and th e opposite boundary of the open space shall be not 
less than 2.3 m.  
 
PARKING 
 
73. 
(1) Every plan submitted along with the application for the purpose of obtaining a Development Permit, shall 
comply with the parking requirements specified in the Schedule 10 herein.  
 
(2) The minimum width of the aisles of  the parking spaces and the dimensions of the parking stalls shall be in 
conformity to the standards specified in the Form A and Form B as set out in Schedule 11 herein respectively.  
 
(3) Where the Planning Committee deems that the provision of the parking space as specified in Regulation 73 (1) 
and 73 (2) is not practicable, a service charge shall be levied as set out in the Schedule 2 herein. 
 
(4) No parking space shall be permitted within the Building Line reservation. 
 
(5) 
a. Where the entry and exit points of  a residential parking space are provided separately, the width of the 
access of each of such entry and exit points shall not be less than 3.0 m. However, where the entry and 
exit points are provided jointly, the width of the access of both such entry and exit points together shall be 
not less than 6.0 m. 
b. Where the entry and exit points of a commercial pa rking space are provided separately, the width of the 
access of each of such entry and exit points shall not be less than 4.5 m. However, where the entry and 
exit points are provided jointly, the width of the access of both such entry and exit points together shall be 
not less than 6.0 m. 
    
(6) Where more than two parking spaces are required to  be provided for a building,  all vehicle manoeuvre of 
parking and reversing shall be accommodated inside the plot of land where such building is located. No 
reversing shall be permitted from or into the street. 
 
(7) The Relevant Authority may reduce the width of a driveway for the parking area to 3.0 m, where a 
development site has a road frontage less than 12.0 m and depth less than 40.0 m if: - 
a. a traffic holding base of required size, has been pr ovided at acceptable locations, along such driveway to 
the satisfaction of the Relevant Authority; 
b. the total parking requirement of such development does not exceed ten (10) parking lots.   
 
  (8) 
a. the maximum gradient of ramps shall not be steeper than 1:8 for ramps of 12.0 m or less. In the case of 
longer ramps, the gradient shall not be less than 1:10 
b. For every such ramp if the ramp is  upward entering to the street, a flat space not less than 6.0 m shall be 
provided from the Street Line / Building Line towards the premises and in the absence of an existing or 
proposed Street Line, such flat space shall be provided from the boundary of the plot of land. 
c. In the case of a downward ramp ap proaching to the street, a flat space not less than 3.0m shall be 
provided from the Street Line / Building Line toward s the premises and in the absence of an existing or 
proposed Street Line, such flat space shall be provided from the boundary of the plot of land. 

<!-- page 24 -->

24 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(9) The clear width of ramps, where entry and exit are separately provided shall not be less than 3.5 m and where 
entry and exit are collectively provided shall not be le ss than 6.0 m and such ramps shall be clear of all 
footways and other obstructions. 
 
(10) In a multi-storied parking area, the minimum clear height of 2.4 m shall be maintained from the lowest level 
of the soffit, beam or bottom of Service Line to the ramp. 
 
(11) Security clearing and park ing control activities such as barriers, boot hs and lifts shall not be located within a 
minimum clear distance of 6.0 m from the edge of the street to such barrier.  
 
(12) In the case where a parking area is provided on an inclined floor, the gradient of such floor shall not exceed 
1:20.  
 
(13) Where a sidewalk continues across an opening for en try or exit to any parking area, the Relevant Authority 
shall specify alterations if any to be made at the Developers cost to maintain mobility of pedestrians, with 
special consideration to handicapped persons. The Relevant Authority may also require the Developer to paint 
and maintain a pedestrian crossing across such openings.   
 
(14) A minimum radius of inner and outer turnings shall be provided as specified in Form C of Schedule 11 
herein. 
 
(15) 
a. Requirements for mechanical car parkin g shall be provided as specified in Form D, E and F of 
Schedule 11. 
b. Maximum number of parking lots to be served by car-lifts shall not exceed 200.  
 
  
(16) 
a.   A Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA) shall be submitted for the development stipulated hereunder: - 
  
i. Residential development which exceeds 50 units; 
ii. Commercial floor area which exceeds 10,000 m 2; 
iii. Warehousing floor area which exceeds 20,000 m2; 
iv. Any shopping mall/ supper market/ departmental store where the regulatory parking requirement 
exceeds 25 parking stalls; 
v. Any development having entry and exit from a main road and regulatory parking requirement 
exceeds 25 parking stalls and which is located:   
- within 100 m from a traffic signal light or a signalized junction; 
- National Highway;  
- within 15 m to either sides from a bus halt or bus bay area; 
- within 25 m to either sides from a pedestrian crossing; 
- an access-controlled highway to an Expressway; or 
- where the Relevant Authority deems necessary. 
b.  The TIA shall be prepared by a Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein and be submitted to 
the Relevant Authority as specified in Schedule 12 herein.  
c.  Every application for TIA shall be forwarded to th e Relevant Authority with relevant fee as specified 
in Schedule 2 herein. 
 
WATER SUPPLY 
 
74. 
(1) For any building, part of a building, recreational or any other area where human activities and engagements 
are planned or proposed, there shall be a suitable installation and mechanism for the provision of a safe, 
adequate, dependable and reliable water supply: 
a. to any place where drinki ng water is drawn off; 
b. to any washbasin or bidet/tap for the purpose of obta ining water for sanitation purposes, provided in or 
adjacent to a room/space containing a sanitary convenience; 

<!-- page 25 -->

25A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
c. to any washbasin, bidet, fixed bath or shower, or any other taps in a bathroom; and  
d. to any sink provided in any area where food is prepared or handled, and/or handwashing is needed for 
sanitation purposes; 
 
(2) There shall be a suitable installation for the provision of water of suitable quality: 
 
a. to any sanitary convenience fitted with a flushing device;  
b. (if needed only) to any purpose other than human consumption, such as irrigation, janitorial work, 
cleaning, washing, etc. 
c. An Alternative Water Source can be used for non-human consumption uses of water in buildings and 
other functional spaces if needed. However, if such dual water supplies are used combining water 
sources mentioned in Regulation 74 (1) and 74 (2) , the pipe systems have to be completely separated 
and colour-coded to avoid cross connections and be clearly marked with warning signs to avoid 
unintended use of unsafe water for human consumption.  
 
(3) If alternative sources of water are proposed for human consumption or non-human consumption, other than 
or in combination with public water supplies: 
 
a. the alternative source so selected shall be depe ndable and reliable in terms of yield and water 
quality variations and shall be free from any wa ter use conflicts/disagreements. If the source 
is an ‘unprotected source’, a suitable treatment system shall be proposed.   
b. the design of treatment systems (if any) shall be carried out by a Qualified Engineer and the 
designs shall ensure the intended water quality requirements are in compliance to any 
applicable water quality standards and/or guidelines. 
c. the design of treatment systems for water from alternative sources shall incorporate measures 
to minimize the impact on water supply and water quality in case of: 
 i. failure of any components; 
 ii. failure to undertake any necessary maintenance; 
 iii. power failure where appropriate; and 
 iv. any other measures identified in a risk assessment. 
d. Alternative sources shall be developed or selected, ensuring long-term safety of source water 
from pollution sources.  Location of shallow wells, surface water intakes, etc. shall be located 
at least 18 m away from wastew ater disposal sites, septic ta nks and soakage pits, and such 
locations shall be selected with the recommendation of the Local Authority and Relevant 
Institutions.  
e. If the Developer plans to extract water from natural water springs or ground water for water 
supply purposes such Developer shall obtain necessary clearances from the Water Resources 
Board.  
f. If the water is supplied by alternative source s for human consumption in dwelling units with a 
population exceeding 20 persons, and in non-domestic buildings: safety of water shall be 
certified by the PHI or the MOH of the area. This certification shall be obtained at least once 
a year after submission of a water quality report tested by an accredited laboratory. 
 
(4) Where it is deemed necessary, the Relevant Authority may direct the Developer or his Agent to obtain a 
clearance from the Relevant Institute/s confirming that  the water can be supplied adequately to meet the 
demand of the proposed development by the existing public water supply system and/ or by an alternative 
source. 
a. The potential consumption of safe water by all persons occupying dwelling units of a building and 
water used for non-human consumption uses shall be estimated objectively and shall be reported to 
the Relevant Institution to obtain approval for water supply connection if such water supply 
services are available, or check with the potentia l yield of the alternativ e sources to ascertain 
whether such sources are reliable and dependable in an event such alternative sources are proposed 
for water supply. The average requirement for safe water supply for domestic use and human 
consumption should be estimated at a rate per person per day for dwelling units at rates specified 
by the Relevant Institution or Local Authority.  
b. The potential consumption of safe water by persons occupying a building categorized as a non-
residential building shall be estimated using a standard framework following a methodology 
acceptable to the water utility. The estimated water consumption demand shall be reported to the 

<!-- page 26 -->

26 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Relevant Authority to obtain approval for the water supply connection if such water supply 
services are available; or if alternative water sour ces are to be used, check with the potential yield 
of the alternative sources to ascertain whether such sources are reliable and dependable. 
c. If alternative sources are used, with or without treatment, in combination with water services 
provided by a water utility, the volume of water available, including the yield and demand for such 
water should be detailed. 
 
(5) 
a. For domestic buildings, there shall be sufficient storage of potable water to serve all the occupants 
and dwelling units for at least 36 hours. Such storage of water can be located as underground or 
aboveground structures with appropriate pumping arrangements and appurtenances.  
b. In addition to the requirement to store water as fire reserves, there shall be sufficient storage of 
water to serve the functions of the non-domestic building for a reasonable period depending on the 
nature of such functions. Still, there shall be stor age of potable water to serve the occupants for at 
least 36 hours. 
c. The storage capacities and the locations of such water storage within or outside the building shall 
be clearly indicated in the drawings submitted for approval. 
 
(6) The plumbing system shall be designed to protect the drinking water supply system from contamination due 
to cross connections and backflow.  
 
(7) Reasonable provision must be made by installing fittings and fixed appliances that use water efficiently for 
the prevention of undue consumption of water. 
 
(8) In areas where there are no pipe-borne water su pply systems installed, the minimum plot size shall  
be 250 m2 .  
 
COLLECTION, TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL OF WASTEWATER 
 
75. 
(1) Every dwelling unit shall have at least one water closet while every other type of building shall be provided 
with an adequate number of sanitary conveniences, suitably designed and numbers decided based on Schedule 
13 herein and in compliance with appropriate standards and/or guidelines, shall be provided together with 
adequate and reliable water supply. 
 
 (2) The dimensions of every toilet, bathroom or combined bath and toilet of a building shall be in conformity with 
the specifications given in the Schedule 7 herein. 
 
(3) For non-domestic buildings, sanitary conveniences should be sited, designed and installed as appropriate for 
each gender and age and for differently abled persons so as to protect and prom ote personal hygiene of 
occupants/users and workers/employees, as well as public health complying with regulatory requirements of the 
Factories Ordinance Part II Section 15 (1), Factories (Sanitary Conveniences) Regulations, 1965 and Factories 
(Washing facilities General) Regulations, 1965, Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,  
No. 28 of 1996 and their subsequent amendments and other applicable laws and regulations imposed by 
Relevant Institutions. 
 
(4) A suitable sink shall be provided in the kitchen or  any area where food is pr epared. Any room/space where 
there is a sanitary convenience or any handwashing faci lity, such conveniences shall be separated from any 
kitchen or any area where food is prepared or stored.  
 
(5) The wastewater that originates from sanitary conve niences, handwashing facilities or other discharge points or 
appliances within or outside the building shall be conveyed to an adequate system of drainage within the 
premises and shall be discharged to one of the following, listed in order of priority. 
 
a. If a public sewer or a private sewer connected with a public sewer is available, wastewater shall be 
discharged to such sewers via an interceptor chamber constructed within and close to the boundary of the 
premises.  

<!-- page 27 -->

27A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
b. Where a public sewer or a private sewer connected to a public sewer is not available, or where the 
Relevant Authority deems that the outlets cannot be connected to such sewers, the wastewater shall be 
discharged to a wastewater treatment system with an  appropriate form of prim ary, secondary, and (if 
needed) tertiary treatment, designed and certified by a relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 
herein. Such treatment systems may consist of any pre-designed and pre-fabricated unit processes, 
packaged plants, etc. The treatment plant shall be constructed and commissioned under the supervision 
of the relevant Qualified Person. Disposal of treat ed effluent subsequent to treatment shall be in 
compliance with provisions of the National Environmental (Protection & Quality) Act, No. 1 of 2008 
and its subsequent amendments, and any other relevant regulation imposed by a Relevant Authority or 
Relevant Institution.  
c. Where provision of such wastewater  treatment system is deemed reas onably not practicable, wastewater 
shall be discharged to an on-site wastewater collec tion and off-site disposal system in compliance with 
provisions of the National Environmental (Protection & Quality) Act, No. 1 of 2008, and its subsequent 
amendments, and any other relevant regulation imposed by a Relevant Authority or Relevant Institution; 
                                  or 
d. to an on-site wastewater  collection and on-site disposal system, designed by a relevant Qualified Person 
as set out in Schedule 3  herein, in compliance with relevant applicable national and international 
standards. 
 
(6) Wastewater shall be pre-treated to conform to acceptable standards prior to  the disposal to the public sewerage 
system in compliance with provisions of the National Environmental (Protection and Quality) Act, No. 1 of 
2008 (or subsequent amendments) and any other regulations imposed by relevant institutions.  
 
(7) In case of housing schemes located  in an area where public Sewerage sy stems are not available and individual 
septic tank or package treatment plants cannot be provided, on-site collection and on-site and/or off-site 
disposal shall be provided in cluster wise.  Number of housing units in such a cluster shall be limited to 
maximum of five (5).  Provided however, that the Relevant Authority or Relevant Institute may consider any 
alternative system if recommended by a Relevant Qualified Person. 
 
(8) An appropriately designed wast ewater treatment plant shall be pr ovided for a condominium housing 
development that exceeds fifteen units (15) and shall be in conformity with the Regulation 74 (5-b).  
 
(9) Wastewater treatment system/ plant: -   
 
 i. shall not be prejudicial to the health of any person, persons or a community nearby; 
 
 ii. shall not contaminate any surface watercourse, groundwater or water supply; 
 
 iii. shall provide adequate means of access for emptying and maintenance; and 
 
 iv. shall provide measures to a sufficient standard for the protection of health in the event of any 
contingency (eg. power failure). 
 
 (10) The works involving the substructure or any excavatio ns of a construction of a new building or extension to an 
existing building shall be carried out in a way that is not detrimental to the continued maintenance of the water 
supply mains, drains, sewers or disposal mains used for the conveyance of wastewat er of such premises or 
adjoining premises. 
 
(11) Sanitary pipe networks, including traps and water seals, branch discharge pipes and connections, discharge 
stacks and ventilation pipes, and any ot her component of the pipe network ha ve to be designed and certified by 
a Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein. In addition, the design of drains, sewers, manholes, and any 
appurtenances from buildings to the point of connection to an existing sewer system or a wastewater treatment 
system should be part of the design. Designs should propose suitable technical measures to protect drains and 
pipelines from settlement, provide suitable access points for clearing blockages, rodent and vermin control, and 
any other foreseeable issues that need regular maintenance during operational activities of the building. 
 
 

<!-- page 28 -->

28 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
RAINWATER HARVESTING AND DRAINAGE 
 
76. 
(1) For all buildings :  
 
a. adequate drainage facilities shall be provided to  drain off water from the roof of the building; 
b. paved areas around the building shall be so constructed as to be adequately drained; 
c. rainwater collection system to include rainwater from (a) and (b) above shall be discharged to one 
of the following, listed in order of priority:  
 
 i. diverted to a rainwater harvesting system or an adequate soakaway or some other adequate 
infiltration system including groundwater r echarge, allowing sufficient distribution of 
rainwater soaking into the ground so that it does not damage the foundations of the proposed 
building or any adjacent structures    
  or, where that is not reasonably practicable,   
 ii. roadside storm water drains (with approval from the Relevant Authority) or a watercourse, 
ensuring that the rainwater drainage so directed  to canals or watercourses does not lead to 
blockages or overflow;  
 
(2) With respect of the disposal of rainwater, the following shall be prohibited: -.    
a. connection to an on-site waste water collection and disposal systems, open trench or public 
sewerage system; 
b. discharge into an adjacent property. 
    
(3) Every Developer or his Agent shall, at the time of submission of the building plans for approval of the 
development activity, submit along with such building plan, a drainage management plan for the property that 
is proposed to be developed including buildings and specifications and other requirements set out in Part I, 
Part II and Part III of Schedule 14 herein may be considered when preparing such drainage management 
plan. 
 
(4) Where it is deemed necessary by the Relevant Authority, the Developer or his Agent shall submit a drainage 
management plan prepared taking into consideration the specifications and other requirements set out in Part 
I, Part II and Part III of Schedule 14 herein by a relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein.  
 
(5) Every drainage management plan shall consist of: 
 
a. where no building work is involved in the development activity or the development activity is 
restricted to land development; 
 
 i. details of the location and the dimensions of the existing drainage system (if any);   
 ii. the proposed drainage system including a rainwater harvesting system inclusive of all 
dimensions and flow directions; 
 
b. where building work is involved in the development activity; 
 
 i. a sketch of the plan of the surrounding area including positioning of existing water drains and 
open water courses (if any); 
 ii. the roof plan and floor pl an of each storey and of any ar eas which consist of flat roof, 
balconies, open areas and sizes of all pipelines carrying rainwater drainage from such areas of 
the building, sizes and location of rainwater stor age, infiltration areas and outlet drains along 
which the rainwater will be discharged with arro ws indicating the direction of the flow of the 
water; 
 iii. the cross and longitudinal sections of the building, including storage tanks, downpipes and 
other related appurtenances. 
 
(6) Where common rainwater holding facilities are proposed  by one or more owners of adjacent properties, such 
joint facility shall be located at such a place as may be determined by the Relevant Authority, provided the 
Relevant Authority is satisfied that all owners concerned have consented to the joint facility and have given 
their written consent thereto.  

<!-- page 29 -->

29A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(7) In assessing the minimum Equivalent Rainwater Holding Provision defined in Schedule 14 herein of any 
premises: 
 
a. the following factors shall be considered: 
 
 i. availability of space for storage of water fo r fire requirements and the measures adopted to 
meet such fire requirements; 
 ii. 100 m 2 of unpaved ground sufficient for 0.5 m3; 
 iii. location of infiltration trench es especially for rainwater; and 
 iv. any facilities available on ad jacent premises where, the written consent of the owner thereof 
has been obtained for the use of such facilities. 
 
b. the following shall not be considered:    
 i. storage spaces for public main supply;  
 ii. availability of septic tank effluent soakage pit or trench. 
 
(8) The following design and construction consideration shall be applicable in relation to rainwater harvesting in 
terms of these regulations: 
 
 a. the rainwater harvesting system shall be designed by persons possessing the requisite 
qualifications as specified from time to time by the Relevant Authority, and: 
 
 i. shall be constructed in a competent matter; 
 ii. the system be capable of discharging the first flush of rain; 
 iii. the water to be stored in an appropriately sized structure; and   
 iv. the stored water will be infiltrated into the gr ound by means of either a soakage pit, a dug or 
bore well, pond or other similar measure, ensuring that the optimal use of water is achieved 
such as for home, garden and landscaping purposes, etc. 
 
b. the storage structure shall be covered and pr otected against all possible accidents and shall: 
 
 i. be built in a structurally sound manner under the supervision of the Qualified Person;  
 ii. have necessary methods for the elimination of dust, vermin and other contaminants; 
 iii. be of such design which shall not conflict with any other building regulations or aesthetic 
consideration imposed by the Relevant   Authority; 
 iv. be located at appropriate locations either ab ove, below or on the ground level, so as to 
facilitate the maximum use of the water storage; 
 
c. where water is not used for home gardening or any other purposes, the infiltration structure shall be of 
such specified dimensions in order to be able to contain the quantity of water directed to it and ensure 
proper infiltration; 
 
d. where common storages structur es are used, such storages sha ll be built with suitable backflow 
prevention devices, so as to prevent rainwater from entering the public mains system; 
 
e. shall not contain direct cross flow connections between the rainwater and the public mains systems 
and/or any other drinking water networks; 
 
f. all pipes and appurtenances used for the provision of harvesting of rainwater shall be clearly 
differentiated by colour and makings. 
 
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT     
 
77. 
(1) For all type of buildings, adequate provisions shall be made within the premises to collect and store solid waste 
until disposal and such places of collection and/ or storage of solid waste which shall be designed and sited so 
as not to be prejudicial to health or local amenity.  

<!-- page 30 -->

30 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(2) For residential or non-residential buildings with a floor area that exceeds 400 m 2 and 300 m 2 respectively, a 
clearance for collection and disposal of solid waste sh all be obtained from the Relevant Institution or the 
Relevant Authority. If the Local Authority has mandated that approval be obtained for a solid waste 
management proposal prior to construction of the building, the developer shall obtain such approvals after 
submission of a solid waste management proposal prepared in compliance with the recommended format and 
guidelines, prepared by a competent person acceptable to the Local Authority. In addition to above, where it is 
deemed necessary, the Relevant Authority may direct the Developer or his Agent to obtain a clearance from the 
Relevant Institution regarding disposal of solid waste considering the nature of such development. 
 
(3) The developer shall follow strategies to reduce, re use, and recycle solid wast e to the maximum extent 
practicable. Provision shall be made for separation of waste within the premises. The basic tenet is to include 
standard protocols and procedures for waste reduction and recycling as well as the intents of the developer to 
properly dispose of the solid waste without incurring any nuisance to the public and minimising pollution and 
promoting environmental conservation.  
 
78. 
(1) In residential developments, solid waste shall be managed adhering to following guidelines; 
 
a. The solid waste collection and storage chamber sh all have a sufficient area in compliance to the 
requirements of the local authority to accommodate the required number of bins or any other 
suitable receptacles of which the size (or volume) and design (e.g., wheeled bins, bins so designed 
with a mechanism to be tipped in to the truck, et c.) shall conform to the requirements of the local 
authority. 
b. For residential developments, dedicated space sha ll be provided for storage of containers for 
separated waste (i.e., perishable (food) waste,  waste which can be recycled and waste which 
cannot be recycled is stored separately) with a combined capacity of 0.25 m³ per dwelling for 
collection frequency less than a week, or such other capacity as may be agreed with the local 
authority. Where collections are less frequent than  once per week, this space shall be increased 
accordingly. 
c. Where the development is a low-rise residential development (buildings up to G+4 floors);  
 
 i. a dwelling unit in such de velopment shall have a method of separation, collection, storage 
and handing over the solid waste to the collector, meeting the requirements of the local 
authority.  
 ii. where separate storage areas are provided  for each dwelling, an area of 1.2 m × 1.2 m 
should be sufficient to provide for storage of waste containers and provide space for access. 
  
d. in multi-storey domestic developments, dwellings may each have their own waste container or 
may share a waste container. Where communal storage areas are provided, space requirements 
shall be determined in consultation with the local authority or Relevant Institution. 
e. Where the development is a high-rise residentia l development; dwellings may share a single waste 
container for non-recyclable waste fed by a chute or conveyed manually to a waste container 
placed in a dedicated area, and separate stor age for any waste which can be recycled and 
composted. Storage areas or rooms shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of the 
local authority or Relevant Institution. In such  case, a satisfactory management arrangement for 
conveying refuse to the storage area shall be assured. 
f. For all types of buildings, waste collection and st orage areas/chambers shall be appropriately sited 
so that the occupants and users of the buildi ng have safe and easy access to it, and the waste 
collection vehicles have ready access for the remova l of the solid waste; Storage areas for waste 
containers (or chutes) shall be sited so that the distance the householders are required to carry 
refuse does not exceed 100 m (excluding any vertical distance).  
g. The waste collection point in high rise residen tial developments shall be reasonably accessible to 
the size of waste collection vehicles typically used by the waste collection authority or other waste 
collectors, e.g., in the case of recyclables. Ther e shall be a dedicated parking space for the waste 
collection vehicle; if the waste collection and st orage area is located inside the building, the 
minimum ceiling height (clear height between floor and soffit) shall comply with the requirements 
of the specifications of the Relevant Authority. 

<!-- page 31 -->

31A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
h. External storage areas for waste containers sh all be away from windows and ventilators and 
preferably be in the shade or under shelter. Stor age areas shall not interfere with pedestrian or 
vehicle access to buildings. 
i. For waste containers up to 250 litres, steps shall be avoided between the container store and 
collection point wherever possible and shall not exceed 3 in number. Slopes shall not exceed 1:12. 
Exceptionally this may be exceeded  provided that the le ngths are not excessive, and it is not part 
of a series of slopes. For storage areas where larg er containers are to be used, steps should be 
avoided. Where this is not otherwise possible, the storage area shall be relocated. 
j. Closed enclosures or storage chambers for communal containers shall be a minimum of 2 m high. 
Enclosures for individual containers shall be sufficiently high to allow the lid to be opened for 
filling.  
k. Enclosures or storage chambers shall have suffic ient ventilation. They shall have an impervious 
paved floor. Communal storage areas shall have provision for washing down and draining the 
floor into a system suitable for receiving a polluted effluent. Gullies shall incorporate a trap which 
maintains a seal even during prolonged periods of disuse. 
l. Where storage rooms are provided, separate rooms shall be provided for the storage of perishable 
(food) waste, waste which cannot be recycled, and waste which can be recycled. 
m. High-rise residential developments where chutes are provided (only if the local authority allows 
the installation of waste chutes in domestic buildings), they shall be at least 450 mm in diameter 
and shall have a smooth non-absorbent surface and close-fitting access doors at each storey which 
has a dwelling, and be ventilated at the top and bottom. 
 
 (2)  In non-residential developments, solid waste shall be managed adhering to following guidelines; 
 
a. The designs for waste collection enclosures or chambers shall be based on the volume and nature 
of the waste generated and the storage capacity required, based on the frequency of collection and 
the size and type of waste container. 
b. The waste management strategy shall consider any requirements for the segregation of waste which 
can be recycled and/or reused, and sufficient st orage space should be provided accordingly at 
appropriate locations. 
c. The location of waste collection points and stor age areas, waste treatment areas and the access to 
these locations for operators and vehicles shall be clearly marked on the drawings. 
d. Waste storage areas shall have an impervious floor and shall have provision for washing down and 
draining the floor into a system suitable for recei ving a polluted effluent. Gullies shall incorporate 
a trap which maintains a seal even during prolonged periods of disuse. 
e. Any open storage or compound for the storage of waste shall be secure to prevent access by 
vermin, birds or any other animal unless the waste is to be stored in secure containers with close-
fitting lids.  
f. In non-residential development, particularly where special problems such as high-density 
developments influence the provision of a system, it is essential that the local authority or the 
Relevant Institute is consulted for guidance on the design of waste storage and collection areas.  
 
(3) Separate and appropriatel y designed safe spaces shall be allocated in  the designs of the buildings together 
with proper access for the co llection, storage, processing, treatment, disposal of wastes (if any) other than 
municipal solid waste. Such wastes would include, but not be limited to, construction and demolition waste 
and debris, industrial waste and sludges, scheduled waste as defined in the national environmental 
regulations, hazardous waste (reactive, toxic or corrosive, or otherwise), electronic waste, etc. 
  
INDOOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION 
 
79. Infrastructure for indoor mobile communication within buildings shall be provided adequately to cover the entire 
premises considering the use of such buildings and shall be in conformity to the recommendations and guidelines 
of the Relevant Institute.  
 
80. A space dedicated for a generator shall be provided in ev ery building which is more th an 15.0m in height or in 
any other building for which the Relevant Authority may direct to do so, considering the use of such building.  
        
 

<!-- page 32 -->

32 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
PART V 
 
Commencement of Building Works 
 
81. 
(1) No development shall be commenced, continued or completed unless and until the Development Permit is 
issued by the Relevant Authority. 
 
(2) Every development shall be in compliance with the limits and conditions set out in the Development Permit.  
 
(3) Where the development is more than  900 m 2  or more in extent or having a building of   G +4 or more stories, a 
notice board having 2.5 m in length and 1.5 m in width shall be displayed including details and contact 
information of the owner, contractor and Architect and the date and the nu mber of the approved plan by the 
Relevant Authority.  
 
(4) The Relevant Authority may permit a Temporary Build ing which facilitates the commencement or continuation 
of building works, for a particular period as per Regulation 106 herein.  
 
(5) An insurance coverage shall be obtained where building works of a proposed development involved with 
pilling or ground excavation.  
 
(6) Constructions of a proposed development may be allowed to commence with a prior approval for early piling 
works before obtaining the Development Permit and such  Development Permit shall be obtained prior to 
commencement of the foundation work. 
 
82. 
(1) The Authority shall carry out inspections during the construction period, once in six months, for such buildings 
that exceed a floor area of 900m2 or G+4 story building from the date of the development permit being issued, in 
order to confirm and ensure that the development work is being carried out in accordance with the design for 
which the Development Permit was granted, and thereby issue a Post-permit follow-up and observation report to 
the Developer or his Agent. 
 
(2) If the Developer or his Agent does not respond to the Auth ority within fourteen days (14) from the issue date of 
the Post-permit follow-up and observation report issued under Regulation 82 (1)  herein, for the same, the 
Authority shall forward such report for further action.  
 
(3) A written request to obtain the interim and final Post-permit follow-up and observation reports shall be 
forwarded to the Authority.  
 
(4) The fees payable for such report shall be made in pursuance with the terms  set out in Schedule 2 herein. 
 
PART VI 
 
Certificate of Conformity 
 
83. 
(1) No Developer or his Agent shall be permitted to occupy  or permit or acquiesce the occupation of any third party 
after completion of the development until the issuance of  a Certificate of Conformity (CoC) by the Relevant 
Authority, certifying the fact that the development is in compliance with the Development Permit and approved 
building plan. 
 
(2) Every application for the purpose of obtaining a CoC shall be made to the Relevant Authority along with the 
Form F as set out in Schedule 1 herein together with relevant documents.  
 
(3) The fees payable for such applica tions shall be made as set out in Schedule 2 herein.    
 
(4) An application with the relevant documents shall be  forwarded online to the Re levant Authority wherever 
possible. 

<!-- page 33 -->

33A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
84. 
(1) The Developer or his Agent shall ensure that all cond itions specified in the Development Permit issued for the 
development are fulfilled prior to applying for the CoC.    
 
 (2) Such application shall accompany a certificate where applicable, from a Re levant Qualified Person/s as set out 
in Schedule 3 herein, confirming that the subdivision or amalgamation has been carried out as per the 
Approved Plan and adhering to the conditions specified in the Development Permit.  
 
(3) Where the development involves the construction of roads, culverts or any other engineering work related to 
development, the application shall accompany a certifi cate from a Relevant Qualified Person as set out in 
Schedule 3 herein, confirming that such works have been carried out as per the Approved Plans and conditions 
specified in the Development Permit.  
 
 85. 
(1) Upon completion of the building or part thereof in accordance with the Approved Plan and conditions specified 
in the Development Permit, the Developer or his Agent or occupant shall request for a CoC from the Relevant 
Authority in order to occupy such building.  
 
(2) When applying for the CoC under  Regulation 83 herein for a completed building or part thereof the Developer 
or his Agent shall:  
 
a. fulfil all conditions specified in the Development Permit; 
b. pay all relevant fees; 
c. if applicable;  
 
 i. submit a certificate from a Relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein, confirming 
that the development has been carried out under his supervision and in compliance with the 
Approved Plan and adhering to the conditions specified in the Development Permit. 
 ii. submit a certificate from a Chartered Civil or Structural Engineer as set out in the Schedule 3 herein, 
confirming that the development has been carried out under his direct supervision and in compliance 
with the structural details pertaining to the Approved Plans and Development Permit.  
  iii. submit a certificate from a Relevant Qualified Person well-versed in mechanical, electrical, 
plumbing, escalators/ lifts, lightning protection,  Ventilation, Air-conditioning, heating, sewer 
systems, drainage, rain water harvesting systems,  fire protection, communication and networking, 
and security and fire alarms or any building service or other related field, as set out in the Schedule 3 
herein, confirming that such works of the building have been carried out under his supervision and in 
compliance with the Approved Plan and Development Permit.  
 iv. submit certificates for fire services, electricity , water supply, sewage or wastewater disposal and 
solid waste management obtained from Relevant Authority or Relevant Institutions;  
 v. submit any other certificates mentioned in the Development Permit.  
 vi. ensure that the development complies with the certificate level or other level of Green Building 
Certification. 
 vii. submit a certificate from the relevant Qualified Person confirming that the development is carried out 
in accordance with the Landscape Plan as per the Regulation 55 (3-b). 
 viii. submit final report of Post-Permit follow-up an d observation report, obtained from the Authority as 
per the Regulation 82 herein. 
(3) The Authority may direct the owner, Developer or th eir Agent to take necessary corrective measures to the 
development, in order to comply with the certificate le vel of the Green Building Rating, within the criteria set 
out in Schedule 5 herein, before the issuance of the Certificate of Conformity.   
(4) Where the owner or the Developer fails to conform to the certificate level or the agreed level of the Green 
Building Rating, the Authority may impose a surcharge on the development as set out in the Schedule 2 herein 
 
86. 
(1) The Chairman / Mayor or his author ized representative of the Relevant Authority may enter at a reasonable 
time into a building while the building works are underway, in order to determine whether all the provisions of 
these regulations have been complied with, prior to the issuance of a CoC. 

<!-- page 34 -->

34 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(2) The authorized representative of the Relevant Authority  shall produce his identity before entering or inspecting 
a building or any development premises.  
 
87. 
(1) The Relevant Authority may grant a CoC for occupation of a building or part thereof, where the Planning 
Committee deems that the deviation from the Approved Plan of the building or  non-compliance with a 
requirement specified in the Approved Plan or Development Permit or non-completion of the construction of 
such building is neither of a serious nature nor in any way detrimental to the well-being and safety of the person 
who may occupy the building or part thereof.  
 
(2) The relevant Authority may revoke the Development Permit or the CoC issued for a development at any time if 
the Relevant Authority discovers that the Developer had violated a term or condition stipulated in the 
Development Permit or the CoC. 
 
88. 
(1) The CoC of a building or part thereof except single unit residential building shall be displayed on a suitable 
location for the awareness of the occupants.  
 
(2) The fire certificate together with pa rticular floor plan showing the evacuation route or routes in case of a fire 
shall be displayed at a suitable location of each floor in  residential buildings of which the height exceeds 15.0 
m or exceeds five units and in non-residential buildings of which the floor area exceeds 400 m
2 and in Public 
Buildings. 
 
89. 
(1) No person can be exempted from the obligation of ensuring the compliance of the building with the Approved 
Plan and the Development Permit after obtaining CoC of such building. 
 
(2) Where a Fire Certificate has been issued for a building where the whole or part of which is being used or 
occupied, all necessary steps shall be taken to ensure that the fire escape routes are not being obstructed. 
 
90. Any owner, occupier or Developer of a building or part thereof who, without any reasonable cause, contravenes or 
fails to comply with Regulations 82 to 88 herein commits an offence.    
 
PUBLIC BUILDING  
 
91. 
(1) A Building which; 
 
 a. provides access to general public; or 
 b. accommodates more than 500  persons at a given time, shall be called as a ‘Public Building’. No person 
shall occupy, use or permit any other person to occupy such building or part thereof in the absence of the 
CoC issued for such building. 
  
(2) Every application for a Development Permit of Public Building shall be made to the Relevant Authority in 
Form C  in Schedule 1  together with written declarations in Annexure I  to VI  in Form C  as set out in 
Schedule 1 herein endorsed by the Relevant Qualified Persons as set out in Schedule 3 herein. 
  
(3) Every such application shall be forwar ded with the relevant fee as set out in Schedule 2 herein.  
 
(4) An application with the relevant documents shall be  forwarded online to the Relevant Authority wherever 
possible. 
 
(5) An application for the purpose of obtaining a Building Permit for a Public Building shall be accompanied by:  
a. a certificate from the Relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3  herein confirming that the 
building is structurally sound to  accommodate the occupancy load of  the maximum anticipated number 
of occupants at any time; 
b. a statement of the intended use and occupants of the building or part thereof.  

<!-- page 35 -->

35A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(6) Every application for the purpose of obtaining the Co C for a Public Building shall be submitted to the Urban 
Development Authority along with the Form F of the Schedule 1 herein.  
 
(7) A certificate from one or more Qualified Persons as set out in Schedule 3  herein certifying that they have 
examined the building or part thereof and its every system and equipment are in good condition and in 
conformity with the provisions of these regulations a nd the Code of Fire Precaution for buildings, shall be 
submitted by the Developer or his Agent when applying for CoC. 
 
(8) The name, qualifications and other relevant particulars of the person designated to act as the Safety Officer for 
the building or part thereof under Regulation 94 shall be provided by the Developer or his Agent  when 
applying for CoC. 
 
(9) A CoC issued for a Public Building shall be valid for not more than five (05) years and may be renewed for a 
period not exceeding two (02) years upon a request made by the owner, occupier or Developer or his Agent. 
Such request shall be made two months prior to the expiry of the CoC. 
 
(10) With  respect of an application for the renewal of a CoC of a Public Building under Regulation 91 (8),  the 
Approved Plan shall not be required to be submitted if there is no change of such plan. However, the 
Certificate of Conformity relevant to such building shall be submitted.  
 
(11) In case of renewal of CoC for a Public Building, a re newed fire certificate issued by the Relevant Institute, a 
certificate issued by the Relevant Qua lified Person/(s) as specified in the Schedule 3  herein certifying the 
structural stability of the building, and any other recommendations requested by the Relevant Authority shall 
be submitted.  
 
(12)  The Authority may revoke a CoC of a Public Building that has been issued or renewed under these regulations, 
 in the event of:  
 
a. a breach of any term or cond ition of the Development Permit; 
b. a failure to comply with the provisions of these regulations  
c. any misrepresentation of particulars in the application, plans or documents. 
 
92.  The structural conditions survey report, prepar ed by a relevant Qualified Person as set out in Schedule 3 herein 
shall be submitted in case of an existing building being converted into a public building. 
 
93. Every public building shall be in compliance with the Pr otection of Rights of Person with Disabilities Act, No. 28 
of 1996 and its amendments.  
 
94. The owner, occupier or their agent of a Public Bu ilding or part thereof which has provided access to general 
public or an occupancy load of more than five hundred persons (500) at a given time, shall designate a 
responsible person to act as a Safety Officer, for the purposes of:   
 
(1) enforcing good housekeeping rules and fire safety  precautions within the building or part thereof; 
 
(2) supervising the maintenance of all means of fire escapes, lifts and fire protection systems and 
maintenance of equipment within the building or part thereof;  
 
(3) organizing periodical fire drills in order to ensure that all persons employed in or using the building or 
part thereof are familiar with all means of escapes in case of fire; 
 
(4) supervising the safety and security surveillance systems of the building.  
 
95. The owner or Developer of a building or part thereof, which has an occupant load of more than five hundred 
persons (500) at a given time contravenes or fails to comply with Regulations 91 and 93 herein commits an 
offence under the Section 28 of Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978.  
  
  

<!-- page 36 -->

36 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
PART VII 
 
CHANGE OF USE 
 
96. 
(1) No Building shall be occupied for any purpose except the purpose for which the CoC was issued.  
 
(2) In case where it is deemed necessary the Authority shall: - 
a. carry out a survey on the usage of the property  where gazetted Development Plan is available; 
b. notify the owner or occupier who has violated the conditions of the permit regarding the nature of the 
violation; and 
c. inform the owner or occupi er to apply for a change of use, if it is so desired.  
 
(3) Where a building or part thereof is intended to be used for a purpose other than any use specified in the CoC, 
the owner of the building shall notify the Authority the proposed use thereof and obtain the approval from the 
Authority.  
  
(4) Where any owner or occupier intends to change the use of the building, an application may be made as per 
Form G as set out in  Schedule 1  herein and shall be submitted along with copies of approved Survey Plan, 
Building Plan, CoC and payment of assess ment receipt to the Authority. The fee shall be made as set out in the 
Schedule 2 herein. 
  
(5) A change of use permit shall be valid for a period of one (1) year, provided the proposed use is in compliance 
with the zoning regulations of the gazetted Development Plan, and compatible with the existing land use pattern 
and no adverse impacts may be caused to the existin g environment and the parking, open space and other 
requirements within the site, width of the access roads an d availability of infrastructure are satisfactory and the 
safety and security of the neighbours are ensured.  
 
(6) The Authority may decide to renew the period of permit for change of use not exceeding one (1) year upon the 
request of the applicant if it is evident to the satisfactio n of the Authority that the prerequisites for a change of 
use described in the foregoing provision has been successfully complied during the preceding year for which the 
permit was granted to effectuate the change of use.  
  
(7) Where the Authority decides that the proposed change  of use may adversely affect the conditions referred in 
Regulation 96 (5) herein, the Authority may revoke the permit without any payment.  
 
(8) Tax numbers, trade permits or any other permit shall not be issued by the Local Authorities without the Change 
of Use Permit issued by the Authority for changing of use of a particular building or part thereof.   
 
(9) Where a gazetted Development Plan is available and an y party intends to change the existing use of a building 
or part thereof permanently, an approval shall be obtained from the Authority for the proposed use based on the 
Planning and Development Regulations of the gazetted Development Plan.  
 
PART VIII 
 
OTHER CONDITIONS 
 
97. 
(1) No application for a Pr eliminary Planning Clearance, Development Permit or CoC shall be accepted if: - 
 
a. the information and the particulars provided in the application are incomplete or inaccurate;  
b. the application is not duly certified by the Develo per or his Agent and Relevant Qualified Person. 
 
(2) Where the Relevant Authority decides,  may direct the applicant or Developer to display a hoarding at the site 
indicating the nature of the proposed development  with the specifications given by Relevant Authority for 
public observation   for a period of thirty (30) days.   

<!-- page 37 -->

37A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
(3) 
a.  Where the approval or a permit is not granted for any Development Activity, the Relevant Authority shall 
inform the Developer or his Agent the reasons for such refusal, and return copies of the relevant plan 
whilst retaining one copy of the plan in the custody of the Relevant Authority.  
b.  Notwithstanding the grounds of refusal, the Relevant Authority shall not be liable to refund whole or part 
of any fees paid to the Relevant Authority. 
 
98. Where Developer or his Agent is aggrieved on the refusal specified in Regulation 97(3 ) in respect of his 
application for a Preliminary Planning Clearance, Developm ent Permit, or Certificate of Conformity, an appeal 
may be made in writing to the Minister within thirty days (30) of the communication of such decision to him. 
 
99. 
(1) Where an application for any Development Activity is s ubmitted, the approval shall be granted with or without 
terms and conditions, if:  
 
a. the information required by the Relevant Authority is provided and the particulars in the application is 
duly completed; 
b. the proposed development is free from objections fr om any Government Institution or any private party; 
and 
c. the proposed development or any part thereof may not  affect the proceedings of an on-going litigation in a 
court of Law or the status quo of the property, an investigation being carried out by the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery and Corruption, Human Rights Commission or any other statutory 
body. 
 
(2) Where any building or building work has been approved with or without conditions, a single copy of its plan 
shall be obtained by the owner of the premises, Developer or a Relevant Qualified Person prior to the 
commencement of the construction of such building.  
 
100. The Relevant Authority may revoke any approval or permit, if there is a contravention of the provisions of these 
regulations, providing false or incorrect information, failure to comply with whole or part of the terms and 
conditions of approval or permit or failure to submit plan and other particulars as required by the Relevant 
Authority.  
 
101. 
(1) Where any provision of any other Law requires or wher e the Authority has identified Buildings or places which 
are of architectural, environmental, aesthetic or archaeological value, any addition or alteration to such 
buildings or places shall not be carri ed out by the owner or the occupier  without the prior approval of the 
Relevant Institutions or Authority.  
 
(2) The maintenance, conservation or change of use of such building or property may be permitted where such 
maintenance, conservation or change of use are in compliance with the Planning and Development Regulations. 
 
102. 
(1) The Relevant Authority may grant approval for any development of a condominium property which is deemed 
to be developed by stages or parts under the Apartment Ownership Law No. 11 of 1973 and its amendments, as 
set forth hereunder:   
 
a. The approval shall be obtained for the entire development proposal at the first stage of the development. 
b. All regulatory requirements shall be assessed for the total development.  
c. Where any changes are done to the Approved Plan, the entire plan with amendments shall be re submitted 
for approval.   
 
(2) No further sub-division or separation of a unit in a condominium shall be permitted, unless otherwise meet 
these regulations.   
  
 
 

<!-- page 38 -->

38 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
DEVELOPMENT GUIDE PLAN  
 
103. 
(1) Every Development Activity carried out within a Development Guide Plan (DGP) area of a gazetted 
Development Plan, shall be in compliance with the regulations specified in such DGP.   
 
(2) Until the preparation of the DGP, the Relevant Author ity may direct the owner, Developer or the Relevant 
Qualified Person to make relevant modifications in the development proposal, so as to be consistent with the 
expected development in the area, as may be proposed in such DGP.   
 
ADVERTISEMENT 
 
104.  
(1) No person or institution shall erect, display or main tain commercial advertisements, billboards, hoardings, 
exhibition stalls or telephone booths etc. without prior approval of the Relevant Authority. 
 
(2) Every such application shall be forwarde d with the relevant fee as specified in Schedule 2 herein.  
 
(3) An application with the relevant documents shall be  forwarded to the Relevant Authority online wherever 
possible. 
 
(4) Any installation specified in the Regulation 104 (1)  herein shall be in compliance with the provisions of the 
Development Guide Plan (DGP) or gazetted Development Plan of such area. If th ere is no DGP or gazetted 
Development Plan available or such provisions are not specified, such installations shall comply with these 
regulations.  
 
(5) A sketch plan of any installation mentioned in Regulation 104 (1) shall be submitted to the Relevant Authority 
for approval and a certificate from a qualified structural engineer shall be forwarded where necessary, before 
exhibiting such installation in any area.  
 
(6) Every installation for commercial advertisements, billb oards or hoardings etc. shall not cover any important 
buildings, landscapes, landmarks or public places (eg: school, temple, ch urch, cemetery, court etc.) in the area, 
and shall be compatible with the landscape of the area and in compliance with the environmental values of the 
place, identity and the architectural character of the location and its surroundings.   
 
(7) The permission shall not be granted for the display of advertisements, which contain messages that are 
detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the inherent  qualities and characteristics of the proposed development 
zones or contain nude or obscene pictures.  
 
(8) No advertisement, billboard or hoarding etc. shall be erected, maintained and displayed in a manner that disturb 
the vehicular movements and likely to misguide the users of the roads. The colour, shape, font types and 
symbols used for advertisement shall not be similar or identical to the traffic signs.   
 
  (9) Every advertisement, billboard or hoarding etc. shall be erected away  from the boundary limits of the access 
roads and it shall not cause any disturbance for pedestrian and vehicular movement of such roads. 
 
(10) No  advertisement panel shall obstruct any door, window , emergency door, staircase or any other means of 
 obtaining light and ventilation of a building. 
 
(11) No advertisement, hoarding or billboard etc. shall be erected in front of a commercial building or a Public 
Building, in a manner that would cover more than 25% of the frontage of such building.   
 
(12) No advertisement, billboard or hoarding etc. shall be erected or displayed with the support of trees, telephone or 
electricity posts, rocks, bridges, parapet walls, walls, vehicles or traffic sign board.  
 
(13) Every advertisement, billboard or hoarding sha ll be maintained in a pleasant and protective manner.  
 
(14) The display of advertisements or notices may be permitted for a limited period of time for special commercial 
events, cultural or religious festival s or any other special occasion. All hoarding erected temporarily shall be 

<!-- page 39 -->

39A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
removed on the first day of the week after such event, festival or occasion and the place of display shall be 
restored to the original condition.  
 
(15) Where any advertisement, billboard or hoarding etc. erected on a temporary basis for a special event exists after 
the completion of such event, the Relevant Authority may direct the removal of such advertisement, billboard or 
hoardings within fourteen days of prior notice. If such advertisement, billboard or hoarding is not removed 
within fourteen days, the Relevant Authority may remove such advertisement, billboard or hoarding etc. and the 
owner of such property shall reimburse the Relevant Authority for any cost or expenses associated with such 
removal. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS 
 
105. 
(1) An application for the purpose of obtaining approval for communication towers shall be submitted to the 
Relevant Authority together with the recommendations of Relevant Institutions and the final recommendation of 
the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission.  
 
(2) Every such application shall be forwarde d with the relevant fee as specified in Schedule 2 herein.  
 
(3) An application with the relevant documents shall be  forwarded to the Relevant  Authority online wherever 
possible. 
 
(4) The specifications for communication towers shall be as set out in Schedule 15 herein. 
 
(5) All telecommunication towers shall:  
 
a. adhere to location specific Planning and Development Regulations enforced for the area by the Relevant 
Authority. 
b. shall not disturb the scenic beauty especially in areas not accustomed to tall structures. 
 
TEMPORARY BUILDINGS 
    
106. 
(1) In the case of a Temporary Building, a plan or sketch with the written request shall be submitted to the Relevant 
Authority for obtaining the permission to erect such building. 
 
(2) Permission for erecting of a Temporary Building shall be  granted by the Relevant Authority with or without 
conditions and shall be valid for such period of time or not more than one (1) year as may be specified in the 
permission. 
 
(3) A Temporary Building is:  
 
a. a shed for entertainment purpose; or  
b. a shed for funeral, religious or other purposes; or 
c. a builder working shed, or store or any other shed used in connection with any new building works; or  
d. a container used on a temporary basis for any activity; or 
e. a protective hoarding, catch platfo rm or side walk shed on street or footway in connection with any 
building works; or 
f. a scaffolding on a street; or 
g. a stall or shed in a building or other premise for a trade fair, fun fair or exhibition purposes.  
 
107. 
(1) Clearances shall be obtained from the Relevant Institutions for any underground or ground level water supply 
lines, sewer lines, drainage lines, telecommunication lines or  electric lines that are loca ted in the land or on or 
near the boundary  
 
(2) Minimum distances from any building or structure to any position to which a conductor in an overhead line may 
swing under the influence of wind shall set out as specified in Schedule 16 herein.  

<!-- page 40 -->

40 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
108. An application for the purpose of obtaining an approval for a construction in any development related to the 
‘Prescribed Projects’ under the Part IV (c) of the National Environmental Act No. 47 of 1980 and its amendments 
shall be in compliance with the requirements of these regulations.  
 
109. Where any new development in relation to religious purp oses is required, the consent shall be obtained from the 
general public who reside within 500 m radius of such development through the Grama Niladhari of the Division 
and a certificate from the Divisional Secretary and the Relevant Government Institution shall be submitted.  
 
 110. 
(1) All construction works excluding single unit private residential buildings which does not fall within Category 
“B” shall be examined by the Relevant Qualified Person in every six months until the completion of the same.  
 
(2) After the examination as in Regulation 110 (1), a progress report of the building work shall be submitted to the 
Relevant Authority by the Qualified Person until the completion of the building works.  
  
111. 
(1) In a case where the services of the Relevant Qua lified Person is terminated, th e Developer shall notify the 
Authority in writing of such termination of the services, within fourteen days (14) there from. With effect from 
the date of such termination, building work shall not be commenced, carried out or resumed unless any other 
Qualified Person has been appointed by the Developer and notified the Rele vant Authority in writing of such 
appointment.  
 
(2) A notice of the termination of services given by a Relevant Qualified Person shall be accompanied with a 
summary report and a certification of the building works completed so far.  
 
112. The developments on either side of an existing or proposed Expressway shall be in compliance with the  
Schedule 17 herein.     
 
113. Where solar energy is used for the building, the maximum height for installation of solar panels on a Flat Roof 
shall be 1.2 m. 
 
114. 
(1) A Development Plan shall be valid for a period of ten years from the date of publish through a gazette 
notification. It shall be amended or revised from time to time.  
 
(2) Where the necessary updates or revisions are not completed before the expiry of the period of validity of the 
plan, an additional period of one year may be granted by the Authority.   
  
115. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts pertaining to the interpretation of these 
regulations, Sinhala Language shall prevail.  
 
 
PART IX 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires; 
    
“Access Road” means any street used as a means of access to a building or a plot of land whether the public have a right 
of way thereover or not. 
 
“Administrative Expenses” means the inspection fee and documentation fee  
 
“Air Conditioning” means the process of treating air so as to control,  simultaneously its temperature, humidity, purity, 
distribution and movement to meet the requirement of the air-conditioned space of a building or part thereof. 
 
“Air well” means any space within the building which opens to the sky for the purp ose of obtaining natural light & 
ventilation. Outside the building is the space within that lot, enclosed by one or more faces of such building or one or 
more boundaries of such lot.  

<!-- page 41 -->

41A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
“Alternative water source” means all other water sources other than public water supply system and may include but not 
limited to wells, springs, boreholes or water courses; harves ted rainwater, reclaimed greywa ter, and reclaime industrial 
processed water etc. which can be used either for human or non-human consumption.  
 
“Ancillary Facilities” means extra uses of a building which directly facilitate the main use; such as parking area, 
swimming pool and generator room etc.    
  
“Apartment” means a unit as defined in the apartment ownership Law,  No. 11 of 1973. 
 
“Approved Plan” means a plan of a building, any building works or any land subdivision amalgamation, or development 
approved by the Relevant Authority in accordance with the Law and the Regulations; 
 
“Authority” means the Urban Development Authority constituted under the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 
of 1978.  
 
“Balcony” means any stage, platform, oriel window or other similar structure projecting outwards from an External Wall 
of a Building and supported by brackets or cantilevered.  
 
“Basement” means a storey which is entirely or partly located below the corresponding natural ground level.  
 
“Blind Wall” means a solid wall constructed without using lucent materials or having no opening. 
 
“Boundary Wall” means any wall, built on or along any boundary line of a plot of land for the purpose of separating 
such land from another adjoining plot of land; 
 
“Building Line” means the line up to which a building will be permitted to construct as declared by the Relevant 
Authority.  
 
“Code of Fire Precautions for Buildings”  means the Code of Fire Precautions practiced by the Relevant Institution or 
fire regulations practiced by the relevant Local Authority.   
 
“Developer” means the owner of the land or person who has been authorized to carry out the Development Activity in 
such land. 
 
“Development Activity” means the parcelling or sub division of any land, the errection or re- errection of structures and 
the construction of works thereon, the carrying out of building, engineering and other operations on, over or under such 
land and any change in the use for which the  land or any structure thereof is used, other than the use of any land for 
purposes of agriculture, horticulture and the use of any la nd within the curtilage of a dwelling house for any purpose 
incidential to the enjoyement of a dwelling house, not involving any building operation that would require the 
submission of a new building plan.  
 
“Development Guide Plan” means a layout plan with specific guidelines detailed into a plot wise or block wise scale 
introduced to a particular area defined in the respective gazetted Development Plan as per the provisions of the Law.    
 
“Development Permit” means a permit including relevant terms and conditions in accordance with the Law and 
Regulations issued to the Developer or his Agent by the Relevant Authority for the purpose of carrying out a 
Development Activity in a particular plot of land.  
 
“Development Plan” means a plan prepared by the Authority in order to promote and regulate integrated planning and 
physical development of lands and buildings of a declared urban development area or a part thereof as per the 
provisions of the Law. 
 
“Development Survey Plan” means a Survey Plan prepared  in accordance with the regula tions and guidelines imposed 
by the Authority or Relevant Institutes. 
 
“Existing Lot” means a lot sub divided before the respective area w ithin which such lot is located was declared as an 
urban development area. 

<!-- page 42 -->

42 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
“External Wall” means an outer wall or vertical enclosure of a building not being a party wall even though it may adjoin 
a wall of another building. 
 
“Factory” means a building or part thereof designed, adapted or used for – 
 
 (i) the making of any article, commodity or product or part thereof; or 
  
 (ii) the altering, repairing, ornamenting, finishing, cleaning, washing or the breaking up or demolition of any 
article, commodity or product or part thereof; or   
 (iii) the adapting for sale or assembly of any article, commodity or product or part thereof. 
 
“Flat Roof” means a horizontal roof instead of a slanted roof. 
 
“Flood Level” means such flood level as may be specified for an area by the Department of Irrigation and Sri Lanka 
Land Development Corporation. 
 
“Floor” includes a horizontal platform forming the surface of a st orey and any joist board, timber, stone, concrete, steel 
or other substance connected with or forming part of such platform. 
 
“Foot Way” includes non-motorable space allocated for access. 
 
“Foundation” means the part of a construction immediately below the ground level of a building, which is in direct 
contact with and through which the weight of the Building is transmitted to the ground. 
 
“Government Low-income Housing Project” means a project where the residential developments are carried out by the 
Authority or any other relevant government institute for the purpose of providing housing for low-income community.   
 
“Guard Wall” means a short wall constructed on a boundary of a balcony or verandah. 
 
“Ground Floor” means a storey of a building to wh ich there is an entrance from the outside on or above the level of the 
natural ground at the front of the building.  
 
“Height” means a vertical clear distance between two points mentioned in the regulations.  
 
 “Industrial Building”- means a building or part thereof wherein produ cts or material are fabricated, assembled or 
processed, such as assembly plants, laboratories, power plants, refineries, gas plants, mills, dairies and factories etc. 
 
“Law” means the Urban Development Authority Law of No. 41 of 1978 and its amendments. 
 
 “Local Authority ” means any Municipal Council, Urban Council, Pradeshiya Sabha or any other statutory body 
established under the constitution and are governed by the Provincial Councils Act 1987. 
 
“Lot” in relation to land means the entirety of any land which has been demarcated by boundary marks or enclosed 
within boundary walls or fences where such land belongs to one single person or to a set of co-owners and approved as a 
lot by the Relevant Authority.  
 
“Lower Ground Floor” means a storey below the ground floor which opens to outside at least from one side of the 
storey.  
  
 “Mechanical Ventilation” means the process of supplying or removing air to or from a Building or part thereof by 
mechanical means or devices. 
 
“Minimum road width” means the existing physical width of the road, where there is no Street Line/Building line 
applicable for  such road as imposed by Relevant Authority or Relevant Institution.   
 
“Mechanical Lighting” means the lighting of a building or part thereof by artificial sources or devices.  
 

<!-- page 43 -->

43A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
“Mezzanine Floor”-  means an intermediate floor between two floor s of a building which does not exceed 50% of the 
floor area of the floor on which it is being erected and has a minimum clear height not less than 2.5m at every point of 
the floor to the below or upper floors. There shall not be connectivity from such floor to any other upper floor if any.  
 
“Natural Ventilation” means the supply of outside air into a building or removal of inside air from a building by means 
of windows or other openings due to wind outside and convection effects arising from temperature or vapour pressure 
differences (or both) between inside and outside of the building.  
 
“Open space”- An area forming an integral part of a site left open to the sky. 
 
“Owner” means an individual whose name is registered in the A ssessment Registry of the Local Authority and one who 
is capable of proving his title/ ownership to a particular property by producing relevant documents. 
 
“Party Wall” means a wall forming part of a building and used or constructed to be used along any part of its height or 
length for the separation of adjoining buildings, lands or part of the building that belong to different owners or are 
intended to be occupied by different persons. 
 
“Permissible Floor Area” means maximum floor area permissible for a development regardless number of floors. 
 
 “Persons with Disability” means any person who, as a result of any deficiency in his physical or mental capabilities, 
whether congenital or not, is unable by himself to ensure for himself, wholly or partly, the necessities of life. 
 
“Planning Committee “means the committee appointed under the provisions of section 8(b) of the Law; 
 
“Plot Coverage” means the percentage of total plinth area of a building in relation to the total land area in the plot where 
building is situated. In the case of build ings or part thereof which include roof  projection or balcony exceeding 1.2 m in 
width, such additional areas shall also be added for the purpose of calculating the plot coverage.  
 
“Proposed Road Width” means the future width that an existing road will have once after it is widened as proposed in 
the gazetted Development Plan  
 
“Public Street” means any street over which the public have a right of way and has become vested in any Relevant 
Institute or Local Authority under any Law or by operation of any Law and includes the drain or footway attached 
thereto. 
 
“Relevant Authority” means the Authority and such Local Authorities that exercise powers so delegated by the UDA 
under Section 23(5) of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 as amended). 
 
“Relevant Institute” means the government or corporation established under the Act for the particular subject.  
 
“Qualified Person” means any person who has obtained his professional qualification in the specified field as –  
 
 i. “Chartered Architect/ Architect/ Architectural Licentiate” - any person who is registered with the 
Architects Registration Board as per the provisions of Sri Lanka Institute of Architects Law No. 1 of 1976 
and its amendment Act 14 of 1996; 
 ii. “Landscape Architect” –     means a Corporate Member of Sri Lank a Institute of Landscape Architects 
established by the Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects (Incorporation) Act No. 33 of 2009; 
 iii. “Qualified Engineer Relevant Subject ” - any person who is registered with the Engineering Council Sri 
Lanka established by the Act No. 4 of 2017; 
 iv. “Registered Licensed Surveyor”  - any person who is registered under the Survey Council enacted by the 
Surveyor General of Sri Lanka to practice by Survey Council Act No. 17 of 2002; 
 v.  “Town Planner” means a Corporate Member of the Institute of Town Planners Sri Lanka established by 
the Institute of Town Planners Sri Lanka (incorporation) Act No. 23 of 1986. 
 vi. “Valuer” - any Corporate Member of the Institute of Valuers of Sri Lanka which is incorporated under the 
Institute of Valuers of Sri Lanka Law No. 33 of 1975 as amended by Act No. 09 of 2019; 
 vii. Any other person whose qualifications are recognized in the construction industry by the Government of 
Sri Lanka (According to Schedule 3) 

<!-- page 44 -->

44 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
“Religious Places” means a building or a defined or enclosed place used or constructed or adopted to be used either 
regulatory or occasionally as a church, chapel, mosque, temple or other place where public worship or religious 
ceremony are performed. 
 
“Residential Building”- means a building or part thereof designed, adapted or used for human habitation such as a 
detached, semi-detached or terrace house or residential flat and includes any outbuilding and other covered structures 
which are intended for enjoyment of occupiers of the building or part thereof or are otherwise appurtenant to a residential 
building as such.  
 
“Residential Unit” means a dwelling unit consisting of a, kitchen, bedr oom, bathroom or toilet used or proposed to be 
used for a single family.  
 
“Retaining Wall” means a protective wall constructed to stabilize the sl ope or prevent deformation of the soil layer in a 
steep slope. 
 
“Room” means a portion of a building enclosed by walls or partitions. 
 
 “Sewage” means any liquid waste and includes water-borne sludge and trade effluent. 
 
“Street Line” means a line or lines defined on one or both sides of any existing street, to show its future width or to show 
the width of a future street as sanctioned by the Local Authority. 
 
 “Temporary Building” means a building which is permitted by the Relevant Authority to remain for a specified period , 
at the expiration of which the building shall be demolished. 
 
 “Terrace House” means a residential building designed as a single dwelling unit and forming part of a row or terrace of 
not less than three such residential buildings. 
 
“Urban Development Area” has the same meaning as in the Law. 
 
 “Veranda Way” means a covered foot-way at the side of street. 
 
“Warehouse” means large building where raw materials or manufactured goods may be stored prior to their distribution. 
 
‘Wastewater’ means foul water which comprises or includes water containing waste discharged from a sanitary 
convenience, bathroom or appliance used for washing receptacles that generate foul waste or water which has been used 
for food preparation, cooking or washing. It excludes rainwater from roofs collected in gutters and downpipes or surface 
water runoff.   
 
“Zone Factor” is a tool introduced to guide the development to optimize the utility of the developable lands and 
infrastructure and to regulate the form of the physical environment and distribution of the development density as 
envisaged in the development plan. Zone Factor is computed as a ratio between the expected total floor space of a zone 
and its total buildable land area. It is an indication of the future built density of a particular zone. 

<!-- page 45 -->

45A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 46 -->

46 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 47 -->

47A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 48 -->

48 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 49 -->

49A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 50 -->

50 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 51 -->

51A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 52 -->

52 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 53 -->

53A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 54 -->

54 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 55 -->

55A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 56 -->

56 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 57 -->

57A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 58 -->

58 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 59 -->

59A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 60 -->

60 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 61 -->

61A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 62 -->

62 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
. 

<!-- page 63 -->

63A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
. 

<!-- page 64 -->

64 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 65 -->

65A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 66 -->

66 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 67 -->

67A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
. 

<!-- page 68 -->

68 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 69 -->

69A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 70 -->

70 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 71 -->

71A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 72 -->

72 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 73 -->

73A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 74 -->

74 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 75 -->

75A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 76 -->

76 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 77 -->

77A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 78 -->

78 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 79 -->

79A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 80 -->

80 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 81 -->

81A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 82 -->

82 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 83 -->

83A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
. 
. 

<!-- page 84 -->

84 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 85 -->

85A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 86 -->

86 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 87 -->

87A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 88 -->

88 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
t 
 

<!-- page 89 -->

89A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 90 -->

90 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 91 -->

91A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 92 -->

92 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 93 -->

93A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 94 -->

94 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 95 -->

95A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 96 -->

96 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 97 -->

97A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 98 -->

98 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 99 -->

99A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 100 -->

100 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 101 -->

101A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 2 
 
[Regulation  
1,3,5,28,30,44,73,82,83,85,91,96,105] 
Fee for Issuing Preliminary Planning Clearances and Renewal 
Nature of Development Activities Fee (excluding tax) 
  
1. Sub-division of lands Land Extent 
(m2) 
Amount 
(Rs) 
150 – 500 m2 
501 – 1000 m2 
1001 – 5000 m2 
5001 – 10000 m2 
Rs 2,000/- 
Rs. 3,000/- 
Rs. 7,500/- 
Rs. 10,000/- 
10000 m2 or onwards Rs. 10,000/-  + Rs. 1,000/-  for 
every additional 1,000 m2   or 
part thereof, in excess of  10,000 
m2 
2. Reclamation of low lying lands / 
paddy lands. 
up to 250 m2 Rs.2500/- 
More than 250 m2 Rs 2,500/-  + Rs 2,500/- for 
every additional 100 m2    or part 
thereof, in excess of 250 m2 
3.1 Erection of Parapet walls/ 
Retaining walls. 
Per linear meter. Rs. 100/- 
    3.2  Demarcation of  boundries with 
foundations 
Per linear meter. Rs. 50/- 
4.   Communication Towers/ 
     Antenna Towers/ Transmission  
Towers 
Rs. 30,000/- 
  
5.  Filling Stations / Service Stations 
Emission testing Rs.    25,000/- 
ii.     Filling Stations Rs.    75,000/- 
Vehicle Service Stations Rs.    50,000/- 
Vehicle Service Stations & Emission 
Testing Rs.    75,000/- 
Filling Stations & related other uses 
  Rs.  150,000/- 

<!-- page 102 -->

102 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
6.  Advertising Boards 
Digital Advertising boards (per m2.) Rs. 5000 /- 
Non Digital Advertising boards (per 
m2) Rs. 3000 /- 
  Name Boards 
(Per m2) 
Rs. 1000/- 
  
  Gantries (Per m 2) Rs. 6000 /- 
  
7. Garbage Dumping yards/ Transfer 
Stations / Compost plants / Sani-
tary land filling and other related 
activities. 
  
i. Land extent up to 4000 m2 Rs.50,000/- 
More than 4000 m2 
Rs. 50,000 + Rs. 10,000/- for 
every additional 4000 m2 or 
part thereof, in excess of 4000 
m2 
8. Water related buildings and other water related developments Rs. 50,000/- 
  
9. Metal quarry / crusher plant, soil cutting, soil washing for sand mining, clay 
and gravel mining on commercial, purposes. 
Rs. 10,000/- 
  
10  
i.  Investigations on Mineral Mining 
Up to 1 km2. Rs. 100,000/- 
ii. More than 1 km2 
Rs. 100,000/- + Rs. 10,000/-   
for every additional 1 km2. or 
part of thereof, in excess of 1 
km2 
ii.  Any other Mineral Mining except   
above item  10 (i) 
  
iii Up to 1 km2 Rs. 100,000/- 
iv. More than 1 km2. 
Rs. 100,000/- + Rs. 10,000/- 
for every additional 1 km2or 
part of thereof, in excess of 1 
km2 
11.  Children Homes /Elders Homes/ 
Rehabilitation Centres 
Land Extent Amount 
Up to 400 m2 Rs.   2,500/- 
401m2 - 500 m2 Rs.    5,000/- 
501 m2 - 750 m2 Rs. 10,000/- 
751 m2 - 1000 m2 Rs. 20,000/- 
More than 1000 m2 
Rs.   20,000 + Rs.  500/- for 
every additional 100 m2or part 
thereof, in excess of 1000 m2 
Nature of Development Activities Fee (excluding tax) 
  

<!-- page 103 -->

103A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
12. Other Development activities 
except above 1 to 11 
Floor Area Amount 
i. Up to 400 m2 Rs. 5,000/- 
ii. 401 m2- 500 m2 Rs. 10,000/- 
iii. 501 m2 - 750 m2 Rs. 25,000/- 
iii. 751 m2 -  1000 m2 Rs. 50,000/- 
iv. More than 1000 m2. 
Rs.    50,000/- + Rs. 500 for 
every additional 100 m2or part 
thereof in excess of 1000 m2 
13. Changes to the Approved Plan 
(without increasing floor area) 
Up to 1000 m2  Rs. 5,000/- 
More than 1000 m2  Rs. 10,000/- 
  
14.Traffic Impact Assessments (TIA) 
Clearance 
  
Rs. 60,000/- 
 15. Environmental Recommendation 
from Environmental Consultation 
Committee - ECC 
ECC Rs. 50,000/- 
EIA Rs.150,000/- 
16.Renewal of Preliminary Planning 
Clearance (PPC). 
  
i. If applying prior to date of expiry of the validity period - 25% of the 
amount received at the time of obtaining the PPC. 
ii. If applying within a year from the date of expiry of the validity 
period - 50% of the proceeds of the initial PPC 
iii. If applying after one year from the date of expiration – Total 
payment of PPC 
17. Issuing of certified copies of the 
PPC. Rs.10,000/- 
18. Transferring of Preliminary 
Planning Clearance  to a any other  
party 
Rs. 25,000/- 
19. Speedy Process (within 7 
working days from the day of the 
fulfilment of all necessary 
requirements) 
Four times of the normal fee 
20.  Administrative Expenses Rs.5,000/- 
21.Charges relating to Religious  
activities and Low Income 
Housing Projects 
Exempted subject to Administrative Expenses of Rs. 5000/- as given in the 
forgoing item 
Nature of Development Activities Fee (excluding tax) 
  

<!-- page 104 -->

104 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Fees for issuing Development Permit and Renewal 
Nature of Development Activities Fee (excluding tax) 
1. Sub-division of lands 
land extent  (m2) Processing Fees 
150 m2 -300 m2 Rs. 1000/- per lot 
301 m2 -600 m2 Rs. 800/- per lot 
601 m2 - 900 m2 Rs. 600/- per lot 
Above 900 m2 Rs. 500/- per lot 
2. Erection of Parapet walls/ Retaining 
Walls per linear meter Rs.100/- 
3. Communication Towers/Antenna Tow-
ers/ Transmission Towers 
Rs.   40,000/- 
  
4. Filling Stations/ Vehicle Service Sta-
tion/ Emission Testing per 1 m2 Rs. 100/- 
5. Advertising boards 
Digital Advertising boards (per m2) 
  Rs. 2,500 /- 
Non digital Advertising boards (per 
m2) Rs. 1,500 /- 
  Name Boards 
(per m2) 
Rs. 500/- 
  
  Gantries (per m 2) 
Rs. 1,000 /- 
  
  
6. Garbage Dumping Yards/ Transfer 
Stations / Compost Plants/Sanitary 
Land filling 
up to 1 Hectare Rs.25,000/- 
More than 1 Hectare 
Rs. 25,000 +  Rs. 5,000/- for 
every additional 1hec. or 
part thereof, in excess of 
1hec. 

<!-- page 105 -->

105A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
7. Residential and Non-residential Build-
ings 
  
  
  
  
  
Floor  
Area (m2) 
  
Residential 
(Per m2) 
  Non Residen-
tial (Per m2) 
Individual Apartment 
Up to 400 Rs.20/- Rs. 25/- Rs.  25/- 
401 m2 - 1000 
m2 Rs.22/- Rs. 27/- Rs.27/- 
1001 m2 - 
1500 m2 
  
Rs.25/- Rs. 30/- Rs.30/- 
1501m2 - 
2000 m2 Rs. 25/- Rs. 32/- Rs. 32/- 
More than 
2000 m2 
Rs. 2,000/- for 
every additional 
90 m2 
Rs. 2,000/- for 
every addi-
tional 90 m2 
Rs. 2,000/- for 
every addi-
tional 90 m2 
8. For commercial purpose 
  
i. Swimming pools (with deck) 
ii. Solar panels 
  
  
  
  
  
Floor area (m2 Fee (Rs) 
Up to 300 m2 Rs. 6,000/- 
301 - 500 m2 Rs. 15,000/- 
501 -1000 m2 Rs. 30,000/- 
More than 1000 m2 
Rs. 30,000/- + 
Rs 1,000/- for every additional 
100 m2 or part thereof, in excess 
of 1000 m2 
9. 
i. Additions and Extensions to the Approved 
Plan 
  
25% of the already paid processing fee + fee for the additional area. 
  
ii. Changes to the Approved Plan (without 
increasing floor area) 25% of the total processing fee already paid 
10.  Transferring Development Permit to a 
any other party   Rs. 25,000/- 
11. Extension of the validity period of 
Building Permit for another one year 
Up to 1000 m2 Rs. 5,000/- 
More than 1000 m2 Rs. 10,000/- 

<!-- page 106 -->

106 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Fee for Green Building Certificate 
 
Nature of Development Activities Processing Fee (excluding tax) 
  
1. Registration of all Levels of  Green Building 
Certificate 
Rs. 5000/ 
  
2.To obtain Final Green Building Certificate 
(Maximum Rs.1million) Fee per sqm (m2)* 
i. Certificate Level Rs. 600/ 
ii. Silver Level Rs. 500/ 
iii. Gold Level Rs. 400/ 
iv. Platinum Level Rs. 300/ 
*At the registration 75% from the initial cost 
6.  Educational institute of Government and 
Private, Religious places, Government 
health institute, Elderly and Children 
homes 
Rs. 50/ per m
2 
In case where there is a difference between the intended green level mentioned in the application for the 
Development Permit and the actual green level that has been achieved by the time of issuing the CoC, the 
processing fee shall be made according to the achieved green level. 
 Fee for Post-Permit Follow-up and Observation Report 
Construction of Building 
Floor area (m2) Fee (Rs.) 
900 m2 -2000 m2 Rs. 3,000/ 
2001 m2 -5000 m2 Rs. 5,000/ 
More than 5000 m2 Rs. 10,000/ 
Service Charges for Covering Approval 
(In addition to Processing fees) 
Nature of Development Activities Processing Fee (excluding tax) 
1. Sub division of lands without obtaining 
necessary approvals Rs. 3,000/- per lot 
2. Erection of buildings / Additions/re-erection 
without approval. 
Residential 
(per m2) 
Non-Residential 
(per m2) 
i.  Completed Foundation works 
       (Up to plinth level) Rs. 200/- Rs. 500/- 

<!-- page 107 -->

107A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
ii. Construction up to roof level 
including Column and Beams (excluding 
roof) 
Rs. 300/- Rs. 1,000/- 
iii. Construction of walls with roof Rs. 400/- Rs. 1,500/- 
iv. Completed constructions for occupations Rs. 500/- Rs. 2,000/- 
v. Erection of Parapet Walls/Retaining Walls Rs. 200/- 
(per linear meter) 
Rs. 500/- 
(per linear meter) 
vi. Erection of Telecommunication, 
Transmission and Antenna Towers 
Construction – Ground Base Rs. 150,000/- 
  
Construction of Roof Top Rs. 100,000/- 
3 Occupation /Usage without obtaining 
Certificate of Conformity (CoC) Rs. 100/- per day 
4. Car Parking Places (service charges for each car parking space not provided within the premises) 
  
i. All Municipal Council 
Standard Car parking               -    Rs.    500,000/- 
Lorry                                        -     Rs. 1,000,000/- 
Multi axle including container -     Rs. 2,500,000/- 
  
ii.  Urban Council For all vehicles                     - Rs. 500,000/- 
iii. Pradeshiya Sabha For all vehicles                     - Rs. 250,000/- 
5. Change of the approved parking space for 
other uses 
Rs. 20,000/- per parking space w ith an increment of 10% per 
annum until it converted to parking as approved. 
Nature of Development Activities Processing Fee (excluding tax) 
Fees for issuing Certificate of Conformity 
Nature of Development Activities Fee 
(excluding taxes) 
1. Subdivision of Land Rs. 1,000/- per lot 
2. Construction of building 
Floor Area 
(m2) 
Residential Non-
residential Individual Apartment 
up to 400 m2 
Rs. 4,000/- Rs. 5,000/- Rs.  5,000/- 
More than 
400 m2 
Rs. 4000/- + 
Rs 15/- for 
every additional 
1 m2 or part 
thereof, in 
excess of 400 
m2 
Rs. 5000/- + 
Rs 20/- for 
every 
additional 1 m
2 
or part thereof, 
in excess of 
400 m
2 
Rs. 5000/- + 
Rs 25/- for 
every 
additional 1 m2 
or part thereof, 
in excess of 
400 m2 

<!-- page 108 -->

108 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
3. Communication Towers/Antenna Towers/ 
Transmission Towers 
Rs. 5,000/- 
  
4. Parapet walls/Retaining walls Rs. 25/- per linear meter 
5. Revalidation of the CoC for Public Build-
ings 
Rs.10,000/- 
Nature of Development Activities Fee 
(excluding taxes) 
Fee for Change of Use 
(Excluding taxees) 
 
Processing Fee 
  
Floor Area (m2) Fee (Rs.) 
Up to 45 1,000/- 
45 – 90 1,500/- 
91 – 180 1,750/- 
181 – 270 2,000/- 
271 – 450 2,500/- 
451 – 675 2,750/- 
676 – 900 3,000/- 
900 above 
Rs.500/-for every additional 90 
m
2 in excess of 900 m2 
Fee for Permit of Change of Use 
1. Change of Residential to non-
Residential 
  
2. Change of non-Residential to non-
Residential 
  
Rs. 750/- per 1 m2 
  
Rs. 500/- per 1 m2 
 Note: In addition to the above, Rs. 50/- will be charged per km as transport cost for site inspection. However, the Ur-
ban Development Authority/ Local Authority may change the fee subject to fuel price in the market 

<!-- page 109 -->

109A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
No. Categories Activity Applicable Extent Specific Task 
  
Relevant “Qualified 
Person” 
1. 
  
Land sub 
division, 
amalgamation 
or development 
Development 
activity does 
not involve 
construction 
works. 
Lands less than 0.5 Hectare Preparation of Perimeter Plans, Subdivision Plans, 
Amalgamation Plans or Extractions. 
Registered Licensed 
Surveyor 
Development 
activity 
involves 
construction 
works. 
  
Lands less than 0.5 Hectare 
Preparation of Perimeter Plans, Subdivision Plans, 
Amalgamation Plans or Extractions. 
Registered Licensed 
Surveyor 
²  Responsibility of engineering works (roads, 
culverts, drains, retaining walls, embankments 
etc.) 
²   Supervision, regular monitoring and Reporting 
²   Certification confirming the construction 
works were carried out under his/her 
supervision and recommendation for CoC 
Civil Engineer 
2. 
  
Development 
Activities 
specified in 
Regulation 7 
(1) 
  
Land 
Subdivision 
Lands which exceed 0.5 
Hectare in extent and 
number of lots is 8 or more 
²  Preparation of Perimeter Plans, Sub Division     
Plans, Amalgamation Plans or Extractions. 
Registered Licensed 
Surveyor 
Assessments of 
development 
impact 
  
  
 
Lands which exceed 0.5 
Hectare in extent and 
number of lots is 8 or more 
²  Preparation of site layout plan. 
²  Examine the compliance of proposed 
development with the Planning and 
Development regulations. 
²  Assessment on compatibility with the 
environment conditions and impact to the 
surrounding area 
Town Planner 
Construction 
works 
  
Lands which exceed 0.5 
Hectare in extent and 
number of lots is 8 or more 
²  Responsibility of engineering works (roads, 
culverts, drains, retaining walls, embankments 
etc.) 
²  Supervision, regular monitoring and reporting
 
²  Certification confirming the construction works 
were carried out under his/her supervision and 
recommendation for CoC. 
Chartered Civil Engineer. 
  
Open market 
value specified 
in Regulations 
25 and 26 
Valuation of 
land block 
Ten   per centum (10%) 
open spaces land in any 
land sub division. 
Valuation of open market value at the time of 
request made Incorporate Valuer 
Schedule 3 
 [Regulations 4,7, 24,25,26,28,38,39,40,42,44,55,57,69,72,73,75,76,84,85,91] 
Qualified Persons 

<!-- page 110 -->

110 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
3. Building 
constructions 
Calculation, 
Design, 
Construction 
Works and 
Certification 
  
Building Category A and 
more than G + 4 or building 
height exceed 15m 
²  Building design in compliance with Planning & 
Development Regulations 
²  Supervision, regular monitoring and reporting 
²  Certification for recommendation for CoC 
  
Chartered Architect 
²  Structural engineering calculation and design in 
compliance with standards. 
²  Supervision, regular monitoring and reporting 
²  Certification confirming the construction works 
were carried out under his/her supervision and 
recommendation for CoC. 
  
Chartered Structural 
Engineer or Chartered 
Civil Engineer 
²  Building services designing in compliance with 
relevant standards and Planning & Development 
Regulations 
²  Supervision, regular monitoring and reporting. 
²  Certification for recommendation for CoC. 
Chartered Mechanical 
Engineer or Chartered 
Civil Engineer or 
Chartered Building 
Services Engineer or 
Chartered Electrical 
Engineer 
Evaluation of Green Building Ratings. 
Chartered Architect and 
Chartered Mechanical 
Engineer or Chartered 
Civil Engineer or 
Chartered Building 
Services Engineer or 
Chartered Electrical 
Engineer 
No. Categories Activity Applicable Extent Specific Task 
  
Relevant “Qualified 
Person” 

<!-- page 111 -->

111A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
4
. 
Building 
Constructions 
Calculation, 
Design, 
Construction 
Works and 
Certification 
  
Building category B 
²   Building design in compliance with Planning & 
Development Regulations 
²   Supervision, regular monitoring and reporting 
²   Certification for recommendation for CoC 
Chartered Architect 
²   Structural engineering calculation and design in 
compliance with standards. 
²   Supervision, regular monitoring and reporting 
²   Certification confirming the construction works 
were carried out under his/her supervision and 
recommendation for CoC. 
  
Chartered Structural 
Engineer or  Chartered  
Civil Engineer 
²   Building services designing in compliance with 
relevant standards and Planning & Development 
Regulations 
²   Supervision and regular monitoring 
²   Certification for recommendation for CoC 
Chartered Mechanical 
Engineer or Chartered 
Civil Engineer or 
Chartered Building 
Services Engineer or 
Chartered Electrical 
Engineer. 
Evaluation of Green Building Ratings 
Chartered Architect and 
Chartered Mechanical 
Engineer or Chartered 
Civil Engineer or 
Chartered Building 
Services Engineer or 
Chartered Electrical 
Engineer 
No. Categories Activity Applicable Extent Specific Task 
  
Relevant “Qualified 
Person” 

<!-- page 112 -->

112 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
5. Building 
constructions 
Design, 
Construction 
Works and 
Certification 
  
Building Category C I -
Residential up to 500 m,2 
Non- residential up to 400 
m2 of building, 
other than Category B 
²   Building design and regulation compatibility and 
structural stability. 
²   Supervision and regular monitoring. 
²   Certification for recommendation for CoC . 
  
  
At least Drafting 
Technology (Building) 
NVQ Level V qualified 
persons. 
  
Building Category C II -
Residential up to 400 m2 
Non-residential up to 300m2 
of building 
other than Category B 
  
²   Building design and regulation compatibility and 
structural stability. 
²   Supervision and regular monitoring. 
²   Certification for recommendation for CoC. 
  
  
At least Drafting 
Technology (Building) 
NVQ Level V qualified 
persons. 
Building Category C III -
Any Residential or Non-
residential building up to 
100 m2 or buildings with 
maximum G+1 floors 
other than Category B 
²   Building design and regulation compatibility and 
structural stability 
²   Supervision and regular monitoring. 
²   Certification for recommendation for CoC. 
Applicant/ Developer or 
at least Drafting 
Technology (Building) 
NVQ Level V  qualified 
persons 
6. 
Landscape Plan 
specified in 
Regulation 55 
(4) b 
Landscape 
layout plan and 
specifications 
Activities specified in 
Regulation 55 (4) b 
²   Preparation of Landscape Layout Plan and 
proposal 
²   Supervision and regular monitoring 
²   Certification for recommendation for CoC. 
  
  Landscape Architect 
7. 
Traffic Impact 
Assessment 
(TIA) specified 
in Regulation 
73 (16) 
  
Assessment of 
Traffic Impact 
Activities specified in 
Regulation 73 (16) a 
²   Assessment of traffic demand of the 
development 
²   Traffic controlled designing within the site and 
to the access road. 
²   Supervision and monitoring. 
Chartered Civil Engineer 
in the fields of Traffic, 
Highway or 
Transportation 
No. Categories Activity Applicable Extent Specific Task 
  
Relevant “Qualified 
Person” 

<!-- page 113 -->

113A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 4 
[Regulations 18,19,20] 
  Form A 
Accessibility to Lands for Non- Residential uses 
Description Maximum Land 
Extent(m2) 
Minimum Road 
Width (m) 
Maximum   
Street Length 
(m) 
Maximum 
floor area  
(m2) 
Where the street 
serves more than 
one lot or site but 
not more than four 
lots
 
250 6.0 50 500 
Where the street 
serves only one lot 
or site
 
750 6.0 100 1250 
Note: This regulation shall not be applicable for Colombo Municipal Council Area. 
Schedule 4 
 
   Form B 
Accessibility to Lands for Residential Use 
Minimum Width of 
Access Road/ Street 
(meters) 
Maximum Length of 
Access Road/ Street 
(meters) 
Maximum Number 
of Lots Served 
(Excluding the once 
those are facing the 
main road) 
Maximum Dwelling 
Units per Lot 
3.0 
up to 50 m 4 2 
  
At a distance of 100m or 
less, but both ends 
connected to public roads 
where width is 6 m or more 
 8 2 
  
4.5 
up to 100 m 6 2 
  
At a distance of 200 m or 
less, but both ends 
connected to public roads 
where width is 6 m or more 
12 2 
  
6.0 - 20 Permissible Floor Area applies 
9.0 
or more - unlimited Permissible Floor Area applies 
Note:  This subdivision regulation published in City of Colombo Development Plan shall be applicable for Colombo 
Municipal Council Area. 

<!-- page 114 -->

114 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 5 
 [Regulations 44,54,85] 
Specifications for Green Building Ratings 
Score Summery 
No Item Marks Applicant UDA 
EE Energy Efficiency 27 
Design 
EE1 Zoning of lighting sources/equipment 02     
EE2 Electricity sub-metering 02     
EE3 Renewable energy 08     
EE4 High performance energy  efficiency 05     
EE5 Efficiency of electric illumination 02     
EE6 Power factor correction 02     
Improvement and Quality Improvement 
EE7 Improvement and operation of energy efficiency 04     
Evaluation of Accuracy and Maintenance 
EE8 Sustainable maintenance 02     
SM Sustainable Site Planning and Management 23 
Site Planning 
SM1 Site selection 04     
SM2 Abandoned (brown field) site development 03     
SM3 
Development density and community coordination/
management/ involvement 01     
SM4 
Preparation of environmental management and environmental 
safeguard plan 01     
SM5 Laying and improvement of green ground cover 02     
Construction Management 
SM6 Mitigation of construction pollution 01     
SM7 Quality assurance in building construction 01     
SM8 Workers facilities 01     
Transportation 
SM9 
Minimizing the use of private vehicles and encouraging pub-
lic transport usage 02     
SM10 Parking capacity 02     
SM11 Rainwater drainage plan - quantity and quality control 02     
SM12 Green cover and roofs 02     
SM13 User's manual for building users 01     
MR Materials and Resource Management 20 
Recycling and re-use of materials 
MR1 Re-use and selection of materials 02     
MR2 Materials containing recycled substance 02     
MR3 Re-use of existing buildings 02     
Sustainable use of Resources 
MR4 Regionally available materials for building construction 03     
MR5 Sustainable timber 03     

<!-- page 115 -->

115A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Waste Management 
MR6 Use of high-value green building materials 03     
MR7 construction waste management 02     
Green Products 
MR8 Refrigerants and clean  agents 03     
EQ Quality of the Building Environment 13 
Internal Air Quality 
EQ1 Monitoring and controlling of CO 2 02     
EQ2 Indoor air pollutants 02     
The Optimum Temperature 
EQ3 
Designing and installation of optimum temperature control 
units 02     
EQ4 Air change effectiveness 01     
The Optimum Level of Visual Light and Sound 
EQ5 Day light 02     
EQ6 Controlling the glare of intake sunlight 01     
EQ7 Electric light level 01     
EQ8 Internal and external views 01     
EQ9 Internal noise level 01     
WE Water Efficiency 10 
Rain Water Collection and Water Recycling 
WE1 Rain water harvesting 02     
WE2 Waste water recycling an d efficient use 04     
Enhancement of Efficiency 
WE3 Water metering and water leaks identification system 02     
WE4 Water efficiency tools equipment 02     
IN Green Innovation 05 
IN1 Utilization of innovations 05     
SC Socio- Cultural Compatibility 02 
SC1 
Design and building of socially and culturally compatible 
buildings 02     
  Total 100     
          
Green Certificate Level 
 1 Green Platinum +70 marks  
 2 Green Gold 60-69 marks  
 3 Green Silver  50-59 marks 
 4 Green Certified  40-49 marks 
No Item Marks Applicant UDA 

<!-- page 116 -->

116 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 6 Form A - Permissible Floor Area Ratio 
Land extent (Sq.M) 
Zone factor =  0.50 - 0.74 Zone factor =  0.75-0.99 Zone factor = 1.00-1.24 Zone factor = 1.25-1.49 
Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width 
**6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
**6
m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
**
6m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
**
6m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
150 less than 250 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.2 2.3 2.4 
250 less than 375 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.6 1.8 2.0 1.8 2.2 2.4 2.7 2.2 2.7 3.0 3.3 
375 less than 500 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.6 1.9 2.1 1.9 2.2 2.5 2.8 2.3 2.8 3.2 3.4 
500 less than 750 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.4 1.7 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.3 2.7 3.0 2.4 3.0 3.4 3.5 
750 less than 1000 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.5 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.1 2.4 2.9 3.3 2.6 3.0 3.6 4.0 
1000 less than 
1500 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.8 1.6 1.9 2.3 2.7 2.2 2.5 3.0 3.6 2.7 3.1 3.8 4.5 
1500 less than 
2000 1.1 1.4 1.7 2.0 1.7 2.1 2.5 3.0 2.3 2.7 3.4 4.0 2.9 3.4 4.2 5.0 
2000 less than 
2500 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 1.8 2.3 2.7 3.1 2.4 2.8 3.5 4.2 3.0 3.5 4.4 5.4 
2500 less than 
3000 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.4 1.9 2.4 3.0 3.6 2.5 3.2 4.0 4.7 3.1 3.8 4.7 5.8 
3000 less than 
3500 1.3 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.0 2.5 3.1 3.7 2.6 3.4 4.2 5.0 3.2 4.0 5.0 6.2 
3500 less than 
4000 1.4 1.8 2.2 2.6 2.2 2.6 3.3 3.9 2.8 3.6 4.3 5.3 3.3 4.3 5.5 6.6 
More than 4000 1.5 1.9 2.3 2.8 2.5 2.8 3.5 4.0 3.0 3.8 4.5 5.5 3.5 4.5 6.0 7.0 
  
Schedule 6 
Form “A”  (Applicable for the area having zoning factor based development plans  
 
[Regulations 46,48,55,70] 
  

<!-- page 117 -->

117A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Land extent (Sq.M) 
Zone factor = 1.50-1.74 Zone factor = 1.75-1.99 Zone factor = 2.00-2.24 Zone factor = 2.25-2.49 
Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width 
**6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
**6
m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
**
6m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
**
6m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
150 less than 250 2.4 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.8 3.0 3.2 3.3 3.0 3.4 3.6 3.8 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 
250 less than 375 2.6 3.2 3.6 4.0 3.0 3.4 4.3 4.7 3.2 3.6 4.5 4.5 3.5 3.8 4.5 5.0 
375 less than 500 2.7 3.3 3.8 4.2 3.2 3.5 4.5 5.0 3.4 3.7 4.8 5.2 3.6 4.5 4.7 5.5 
500 less than 750 2.8 3.4 4.0 4.5 3.4 3.6 4.7 5.5 3.5 4.0 5.0 6.0 3.7 5.0 5.0 6.0 
750 less than 1000 3.1 3.6 4.3 5.0 3.5 3.8 5.1 6.0 3.6 4.5 5.7 6.5 3.8 5.1 6.0 6.5 
1000 less than 
1500 3.2 3.8 4.6 5.5 3.6 4.0 5.4 6.5 3.7 5.0 6.1 8.0 3.9 5.3 6.5 8.5 
1500 less than 
2000 3.4 4.0 5.0 6.0 3.7 4.2 5.8 7.0 3.8 5.1 6.7 9.0 4.0 5.4 7.0 *10 
2000 less than 
2500 3.5 4.2 5.2 6.5 3.8 4.4 6.2 7.5 3.9 5.2 7.1 *10 4.0 5.5 7.5 *10.5 
2500 less than 
3000 3.6 4.4 5.5 7.0 3.9 4.6 6.5 8.0 4.0 5.3 7.4 *10.5 4.0 5.6 7.5 *11 
3000 less than 
3500 3.7 4.6 6.0 7.5 4.0 4.8 6.9 8.5 4.0 5.4 7.6 *11 4.0 5.7 8.0 *11.5 
3500 less than 
4000 3.8 4.8 6.3 7.7 4.0 5.0 7.3 9.0 4.0 5.5 7.8 *11.5 4.0 5.8 8.0 *12 
More than 4000 4.0 5.0 6.5 8.0 4.0 5.2 7.5 9.5 4.0 5.6 8.0 *12 4.0 5.9 8.0 *UL 

<!-- page 118 -->

118 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Form A - Permissible Floor Area Ratio 
Land extent 
(Sq.M) 
Zone factor = 2.50-2.74 Zone factor = 2.75-2.99 Zone factor = 3.00-3.24 Zone factor = 3.25-3.49 
Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width 
**6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
**6
m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
**
6m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
**
6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
150 less than 250 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 
250 less than 375 3.5 4.0 5.0 5.5 3.5 4.2 5.0 5.5 3.5 4.4 5.0 5.5 3.5 4.6 5.0 5.5 
375 less than 500 3.6 4.6 5.2 6.0 3.6 4.7 5.2 6.0 3.6 4.8 5.2 6.0 3.6 4.9 5.2 6.0 
500 less than 750 3.7 5.1 5.5 6.5 3.7 5.2 5.5 6.5 3.7 5.3 5.5 6.5 3.8 5.4 5.5 6.5 
750 less than 1000 3.8 5.2 6.5 7.0 3.8 5.3 7.0 7.5 3.8 5.4 7.0 7.5 4.0 5.5 7.5 8.0 
1000 less than 
1500 3.9 5.4 7.0 9.0 3.9 5.5 7.5 9.0 3.9 5.6 7.5 9.0 4.0 5.7 8.0 9.0 
1500 less than 
2000 4.0 5.5 7.5 *10.5 4.0 5.6 7.5 *10.5 4.0 5.7 8.0 *10.5 4.0 5.8 8.0 *11 
2000 less than 
2500 4.0 5.6 7.5 *11 4.0 5.7 8.0 *11 4.0 5.8 8.0 *11 4.0 5.9 8.0 *11.5 
2500 less than 
3000 4.0 5.7 8.0 *11.5 4.0 5.8 8.0 *11.5 4.0 5.9 8.0 *11.5 4.0 6.0 8.0 *12 
3000 less than 
3500 4.0 5.8 8.0 *12 4.0 5.9 8.0 *12 4.0 6.0 8.0 *12 4.0 6.0 8.0 *12 
3500 less than 
4000 4.0 5.9 8.0 *12 4.0 6.0 8.0 *12 4.0 6.0 8.0 *12 4.0 6.0 8.0 *12 
More than 4000 4.0 6.0 8.0 *UL 4.0 6.0 8.0 *UL 4.0 6.0 8.0 *UL 4.0 6.0 8.0 *UL 
  

<!-- page 119 -->

119A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Land extent 
(Sq.M) 
Zone factor = 3.50-3.74 Zone factor = 3.75-4.00 UL – Unlimited 
Floor area allocated for parking facilities are not calculated 
for FAR 
Above Floor Area Ratio shall not be applicable for the zones 
where number of floors or FAR indicated under the zoning 
regulations
 
Above Permissible FAR may be restricted under the 
development plan based on the slope of the land
 
Clearance shall be taken from National Building Research 
Organization for the lands having slope more than 11
0 
* FAR more than or equal to 10.0 shall be permitted only for 
the roads having minimum of 12m (from road center) 
Building Line, if not maximum FAR shall be limited to 9.0 
**Minimum road width of 7m shall be considedrd for the 
roads identified as 7 m wide in the particular Development 
Plans 
Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width 
**6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
**6
m 9m 12m 15m or 
above 
150 less than 250 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 3.0 3.4 3.6 4.0 
250 less than 375 3.5 4.8 5.0 5.5 3.5 5.0 5.0 5.5 
375 less than 500 3.6 5.0 5.2 6.0 3.6 5.4 5.2 6.0 
500 less than 750 3.8 5.5 5.5 6.5 4.0 5.7 5.5 6.5 
750 less than 1000 4.0 5.6 7.5 8.0 4.5 6.0 7.5 8.0 
1000 less than 
1500 4.2 5.8 8.0 9.0 4.5 6.5 8.0 9.0 
1500 less than 
2000 4.2 6.0 8.0 *11 4.5 7.0 8.0 *11 
2000 less than 
2500 4.2 6.2 8.0 *11.5 4.5 7.0 8.0 *12 
2500 less than 
3000 4.2 6.4 8.0 *12 4.5 7.0 8.0 *12 
3000 less than 
3500 4.2 6.5 8.0 *12 4.5 7.0 8.0 *12 
3500 less than 
4000 4.2 6.5 8.0 *12 4.5 7.0 8.0 *12 
More than 4000 4.2 6.5 8.0 *UL 4.5 7.0 8.0 *UL 

<!-- page 120 -->

120 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Form B - Number of Floors for 3.0m & 4.5m wide Roads 
Minimum 
Road 
Width 
Minimum 
Site 
Frontage 
 Plot 
Coverage
* 
Maximum Number of Floors 
Zone 
Factor 0.5 - 
0.74 
Zone 
Factor   
0.75 - 1.24 
Zone Factor 
1.25 - 3.49 
Zone Factor 
3.50 - 4.00 
3.0m 6m 65%  1 (G) 2 (G+1) 3 (G+2) 3 (G+2) 
4.5m 6m 65%  1 (G) 2 (G+1) 3 (G+2) 4 (G+3) 
  Number of floors are indicated including parking areas 
  Number of units allowed for each road shall not be changed 
  * Where no plot coverage specified under the zoning regulations 
Form “B  
Form “C”  
(Applicable for the declared urban ares except area having zoning factor based Development Plans  
Form C - Permissible Floor Area Ratio 
Land extent (Sq.M) 
Low Density Zone 
(Controlled Zone) 
Medium Density Zone 
(Residential Zone) 
High Density Zone 
(Mixed Zone) 
Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width Minimum Road Width 
6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
6m 9m 12m 
15m 
or 
above 
6m 9m 12m 
15
m 
or 
abo
ve 
150 less than 250 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 
250 less than 375 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.6 1.8 2.0 1.8 2.2 2.4 2.7 
375 less than 500 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.6 1.9 2.1 1.9 2.2 2.5 2.8 
500 less than 750 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.4 1.7 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.3 2.7 3.0 
750 less than 1000 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.5 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.1 2.4 2.9 3.3 
1000 less than 1500 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.8 1.6 1.9 2.3 2.7 2.2 2.5 3.0 3.6 
1500 less than 2000 1.1 1.4 1.7 2.0 1.7 2.1 2.5 3.0 2.3 2.7 3.4 4.0 
2000 less than 2500 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 1.8 2.3 2.7 3.1 2.4 2.8 3.5 4.2 
2500 less than 3000 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.4 1.9 2.4 3.0 3.6 2.5 3.2 4.0 4.7 
3000 less than 3500 1.3 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.0 2.5 3.1 3.7 2.6 3.4 4.2 5.0 
3500 less than 4000 1.4 1.8 2.2 2.6 2.2 2.6 3.3 3.9 2.8 3.6 4.3 5.3 
More than 4000 1.5 1.9 2.3 2.8 2.5 2.8 3.5 4.0 3.0 3.8 4.5 5.5 
Above Floor Area Ratio shall not be applicable for the zones where number of floors or FAR indicated under the 
zoning regulations 
Floor area allocated for parking facilities are not calculated for FAR 
Clearance shall be taken from National Building Research Organization for the lands having slope more than 110 

<!-- page 121 -->

121A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Form D - Number of Floors for 3.0m & 4.5m wide Roads 
Minimum 
Road 
Width 
Minimum 
Site 
Frontage 
Plot 
Coverage* 
Maximum Number of Floors 
Low Density 
Zone 
(Controlled 
Zone) 
Medium Density 
Zone (Residential 
Zone) 
High Density 
Zone (Mixed 
Zone) 
3.0m 6m 65%  1 (G) 2 (G+1) 3 (G+2) 
4.5m 6m 65%  1 (G) 2 (G+1) 3 (G+2) 
Number of floors are indicated including parking areas 
Number of units allowed for each road shall not be changed 
* Where no plot coverage specified under the zoning regulations 
Form “D” 

<!-- page 122 -->

122 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Form “E”   


<!-- page 123 -->

123A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 7 
[Regulation 65,75] 
Room Minimum Floor Area 
(m2) 
Minimum width 
(m) 
Where there is only one room in a dwelling 
unit 
11.0 3.0 
(b) Where there are more than 1 room in a dwelling unit 
  i. First Room 9.5 2.5 
  ii. Additional Room 8.5 2.5 
(c) Kitchen 5.5 1.8 
(d) Bathroom 1.7 1.0 
(e)  Toilet 1.7 1.0 
(f)   Combined Bath and Toilet 2.0 1.5 
Schedule 8 
[Regulation 68] 
Minimum Requirements for Stair Cases 
Category Minimum   
Width of   
Stairs (mm) 
Minimum 
Height 
Clearance 
(meters) 
Maximum 
Riser 
(mm) 
Mini-
mum 
Tread 
(mm) 
1. Internal stairs serving only one  
     upper floor.
 
750 2.1 175 250 
2. Stairs in buildings, used as place of 
Public Building and Condominium 
Buildings and all other categories.
 
1050 2.1 150 300 

<!-- page 124 -->

124 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 9 
[Regulation 71] 
 Specification of Air Wells for natural light and ventilation 
Building Height 
(m) 
All Rooms 
Utility Rooms 
(eg: Toilets, Store Rooms, Gar-
age, Washing Areas) 
Minimum Clear 
width 
(meters) 
Minimum Area 
of space 
(square meters) 
Minimum 
Clear 
Width 
(meters) 
Minimum Area 
of Space 
(square meters) 
less than 7 2.3 5.0 1.0 1 
7  to 15 3.0 9.0 1.0 2.0 
15 to 30 4.0 16.0 1.0 2.0 
30 to 50 5.0 25.0 1.0 2.25 
50 to 75 6.0 36.0 1.5 2.25 
75 and above 6.0 * 1.5 2.25 
* Minimum area shall be increased by 1 sq.m for every additional 3m height 

<!-- page 125 -->

125A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 126 -->

126 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 127 -->

127A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 128 -->

128 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 129 -->

129A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 130 -->

130 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 131 -->

131A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 132 -->

132 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 133 -->

133A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 134 -->

134 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 135 -->

135A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 136 -->

136 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 137 -->

137A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 138 -->

138 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 139 -->

139A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 140 -->

140 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 11 
[Regulation 73] 
Form A 
Width of Aisles for Parking Spaces 
Parking angle (degrees) Bay on one side (m) Two-way traffic (m) 
Bay on one side (m) Bay on two side (m) 
Parallel 3.6 3.6 6.0 
30 Deg. Angle 3.6 4.2 6.0 
45 Deg. Angle 4.2 4.8 6.0 
60 Deg. Angel 4.8 4.8 6.0 
90 Deg. Angel 6.0 6.0 6.0 
Note: The above standards are not applicable for Lorries and Containers.  Requirement for lorries/containers shall 
be determined by the Urban Development Authority/ Local Authority. 
 
Form B 
Dimensions of Parking Spaces 
Type of vehicle Stall width (meters) 
 (Angle parking or parallel 
parking) 
Stall length 
(meters) 
Angle parking 
Stall length (meters) 
Parallel parking 
Car and similar vehicle 2.4 4.8 5.5 
Three wheelers 2.1 2.4 2.5 
Pedal cycles 0.6 2.25 2.25 
Commercial (Two Axle) 3.6 10.0 12.00 
Commercial (Multi Axle) 3.6 18.0 20.0 
Form C 
 
 
Dimensions of Inner and Outer Turning Radius 
In such an instance, where it may be satisfactorily proven to the Urban Development Authority/ Local Authority that 
the minimum turning radius as given above cannot be provided for the development, then a margin lane of width not 
less than 3.0m   and located within the site shall be provid ed for any such entry and/or exit. Such lanes shall be de-
signed to cause the least impact on the free flow of traffic on the street and should be approved by the Traffic Planning 
Committee of the Urban Development Authority.  
Turning Radius Passenger Car Two Axle Com-
mercial Vehicle 
Multi Axle Com-
mercial Vehicle 
Inner turning 4.2m 12.8m 13.8m 
Outer turning 7.3m 8.7m 6.9m 

<!-- page 141 -->

141A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Form D 
Requirements for Fully-Automated Systems 
Car lobby internal dimension 6.2m long x2.6m wide 
Entrance width 2.6m clear 
Platform size 5.4 long x 2.4m wide 
Headroom clearance 2.2m clear 
Holding bay At entrance and exit 
Queuing spaces 15% of the car lots se rved by the system or 2 vehicles 
whichever is higher 
Form E 
Requirements for Stack & Puzzle Vertical Systems  
Platform size (min) 5.4m long x 2.4m wide 
Clear width at entry/exit 2.4m (no obstruction)  
2.7m (obstruction on one side) 
3.0m (obstruction on both side) 
Headroom clearance 2.2m clear 
Queuing space 15%   or 2 vehicles whichever is higher 
  Should have independent movability and dependent 
stackers are not allowed 
Form F 
Requirements for Provision of Car-lifts 
Car lift internal dimension 6.2m long x 2.6m wide 
Entrance width 2.6m clear 
Headroom clearance 2.2m clear 
Minimum speed 30m/min. 
Minimum discharge capacity 30 cars/hr. 
Holding bay At entrance and exit 
Queuing spaces 15% of the car lots se rved by the system or 2 vehicles 
whichever is higher 

<!-- page 142 -->

142 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 12 
[Regulation 73] 
Form for Traffic Impact Assessment  
 
Part A - General Information 
 
A.1 Name of the Project  : 
A.2 Name of the Developer :  (Company /Firm / Individual) 
i. Postal Address  : 
  ii. Phone / Fax No. : 
  iii. Contact person/Name/Designation/Phone No: 
A.3 Nature of the Project : 
  i. Scale of the Project  : 
  ii. Main objectives of the Project: 
  iii. Alternatives to the project : 
A.4 Location of the Project : 
  i.      Provincial Council : 
  ii.     Divisional Secretariat : 
  iii.    Local Authority : 
iv. Provide a location map   indi cating the project site, access to the site, surrounding development 
and infrastructure within 500m of the site (at appropriate scale – A3 size) 
 
A.5 Extent of the project area  (define specific boundaries); approved survey plan shall be submitted.):  
 
A.6 Present Owner of the Project Site:  Ownership certificate shall be submitted. (Deed/Lease agreement/  
Cadastral Map) specify 
State Private Other 
      
A.7 Present use of land : 
 
A.8 Proposed time line and schedule including ph ased out development in summary data chart  

<!-- page 143 -->

143A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Part B -Project Details 
 
Main pre construction and construction activities: 
B.1 Nature of the project: 
B.1.1 Brief description of the project including major components  
 B.1.2 Project layout plan including all component of the project including; 
a. Vehicle circulation pattern inside the development by including widths of the internal vehicular 
paths. 
b. All entrances and exits widths including arro ws (security barriers are not allowed at the  
entrances). 
c. Width of aisles 
d. Inner and outer radius of entry and exist locations to street 
e. Clear and un-obstructed entry distances (without barriers, ramps) from the edge of street – all 
the Ramps shall start 6m away from the front boundary. 
f. Width/gradient and length of ramped sections 
g. Dimensions of parking stalls. 
h. Area designated for passenger pick up/ drop off 
i. Area of security checking and parking tickets 
j. Car lifts (car lift shall be located furthest to the entry point. number of car lifts required based 
on the parking requirements of the development) 
          
B.1.3      Clear drawings of the parking arrangements. 
(a) Once the parking proposal is accepted from Traffi c Impact Assessment point of view, three set of 
proposed drawings shall be submitted to Urban Development Authority, Local Authority, Road 
Development Authority and Traffic Police with the si gnatures of Developer, Project Architect and the 
Structural Engineer.  
Part   C -Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) 
 
Study Area: 
Project site – 01 km radius from the boundary of the project site shall be considered as the study area. Surrounding 
major developments and specially the imp act of traffic generation for the same sh all be considered and analysed with 
the development. In addition, developments within the last  10 years and developments proposals shall be taken into 
account. 
 
C.1 Traffic Flows (Data collection dates shall be included) 
 
Traffic Survey dates shall be within 6 months of the TIA report. Traffic impact analysis shall be addressed considering 
the Traffic Generation and Demand of the proposed development and the surrounding major developments which   
already exist and also which are proposed to be develope d.  TIA specialist shall analyse the impact of Traffic 
generation and traffic flow in to the road network 
C.1.1 Traffic Flow distribution  
  C.1.2 Vehicle distributions  
  C.1.3 Proposed drawing/s   including followings; 

<!-- page 144 -->

144 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
a. Building limit, centre line of the road and shoulder widths of existing road/s 
b. Number of lane/s of the existing road/s and details of pedestrian crossings, foot 
walks and guard rails for foot walks, drive way/s and other private road/s.  
c. Bus bay location, bus stop/s location an d distance to the bus bay from the entry /
exist location of the development. (Bus bays/stops cannot shift due to the 
developments. As such entrance and exit shall be located without disturbing exiting 
features).  
d. Length of the site frontage of the land, entry/exist gate design including lane width 
e. Road signs, signals and road markings or any other road details 
f. Center median opening details and di stance to the center median opening from 
entry/exit locations 
g. Lamp posts on road 
h. Pavement area of proposed development 
i. Junction/intersection details close to the development. 
C.1.4 Vehicles entering and leaving shall be able  to move with the exiting traffic flow. Conflict 
points shall be minimal in order to avoid the delays. Entering and leaving vehicles shall be 
move with the through traffic. 
 
C.2 Parking arrangement 
C.2.1 Details of the parking requirement including Disable Parking requirement 
C.2.2 Clear drawing by including requirements   
C.2.3 Off site vehicle movement 
Part   D – Land Transferring   
If it is required to open up a Street Line or Building Line for the development, the land within the Street Line or Building 
Line shall be transferred to the Relevant Local Authority/  Relevant Institute with the consultation from same and 
Developer shall contact the Legal Section of same authorities/institution and prepare the set of legal documents related to 
transferring. Subsequently at the first renewal of the deve lopment permit deed of transferring shall be submitted to 
Relevant Authorities/Relevant Institute. 
 
Part   E - Conclusion and Recommendation 
The Traffic Impact Assessment of the proposed project and key finding and recommendation of the assessment shall be 
attached hereunder; 
 
The above information furnished by me/us are true and accurate to the best of my/our knowledge. I am/we are aware that 
this information will be utilized in decision making by the Relevant Authority/Relevant Institution. 
 
 
……………………      ………………..………. 
     D a t e        S i g n a t u r e  o f  C o n s u l t a n t / s  
 

<!-- page 145 -->

145A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 13 
[Regulation 75] 
 
Standards for Sanitary facilities 
Use Female Male 
    Toilet Wash Basin Toilet Urinal Wash Basin 
1 Restaurants, Hotels and 
similar uses 
1 per 
100 m2. 
1 per 300 m2. 1 per 200 m 2. 1 per  
200 m2. 
1 per 
300 m2. 
2 Cinemas, Theatres, Seminar 
Halls 
1 per 40 
seats 
1 per 50 
seats 
1 per 120 
seats 
1 per 40 
seats 
1 per 120 
seats 
3 Shopping Complexes 
Departmental Stores, Super 
Markets and similar uses 
1 per 
800 m2. 
1 per 
1000 m2. 
1 per 
1000 m2. 
1 per 
1000 m2. 
1 per 
1000 m2. 
4 Offices 1 per 
100 m2. 
1 per 
100 m2. 
1 per 
200 m2. 
1 per 
200 m2. 
1 per 
100 m2. 
5 Schools/Private Educational 
institutes/ Tuition Classes/ 
International schools 
1 per 40 
students or 1 
per 60 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 40 
students or 1 
per 60 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 40 
students or 1 
per 60 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 80 
students or 1 
per 120 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 40 
students or 1 
per 60 m2 
whichever is 
more 
6 Public spaces, Public assembly 
places, Parks and similar uses 
1 per 100 
person 
1 per 
100 person 
1 per 
100 person 
1 per 
100 person 
1 per 
100 person 
7 Hospital and similar uses 3 per 50 beds 3 per 50 beds 3 per 50 beds 3 per 50 beds 3 per 50 beds 
8 Industries 1per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
200 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 80 
persons or 1 
per 
200 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1 per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
9 Other 1per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 
1per 40 
persons or 1 
per 
100 m2 
whichever is 
more 

<!-- page 146 -->

146 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
Schedule 14 
[Regulation 76] 
 
Rain Water Harvesting 
PART I 
Use and Type of Buildings 
  Uses Types of buildings 
1. Residential Including houses, multiple dwellings, apartments and homes for elders 
2. Commercial Including office buildings, hotels, motels, guest houses, public lodgings, 
shopping centres, supermarkets, restaurants and car parks 
3. Industrial Including factories, workshops, warehouses, industrial establishments and 
infrastructure services centres 
4. Institutional Including government buildings, semi-government buildings and other public 
buildings 
PART II 
Minimum Requirement of Rainwater Holding Provision  
* Annual Rainwater 
Band (mm) 
Minimum Volume required to collect from 100m2 of roof area and hard paved area 
Residential Commercial Industrial Institutional 
Domestic 
(cu.m.) 
Apartments/ 
Condominiums 
(cu.m.) 
  
(cu.m.) 
  
(cu.m.) 
  
(cu.m.) 
1   750 - 1000 1.5 2.5 5 8 10 
2 1000 - 1500 1.5 2.5 3 8 10 
3 1500 - 2000 1.5 2.5 3 5 10 
4 2000 - 2500 1.5 2.5 3 3 5 
5 2500 - 3000 1.5 2.5 2 2 3 
6 3000 - 4000 1.5 2.5 1 1 2 
7 4000 - 5000 1.5 2.5 0.5 1 1 
8 5000 - 6000 1.5 2.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 

<!-- page 147 -->

147A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
* The rainfall bands are taken from the Sri Lanka National Atlas published by the  
Department of Surveys. 
 
 Required Rainwater       =    Minimum Volume   x Total Roof area and   
           Holding Provision (m3)                                 100                          paved area  
 
Note:  The ratio of the Required Rainwater Holding Provisio n both by Storage and Infiltration, shall be determined 
by the respective Local Authority taking into consideration; the location, groundwater table fluctuation, avail-
able space, topography, permeability, type of soil.   
 
PART III 
Proposed Distribution of Rain Water Harvesting Holder Provision  
Storage (m3) Ground Water Infiltration (m3) Total 
(m3) Above 
Ground 
On 
Ground 
Below 
Ground 
Oth-
ers 
Wast
ewat
er Pit 
Un-
paved 
Ground 
Un-
lined 
Pond 
Dug 
Well 
Bore-
hole 
  
Other 
                      
                      
[Regulation 105] 
Schedule 15 
 
Specification for Communication Towers 
1. 
1. Ground Base Antenna Structures – Height less than or equal to 100.0 m 
 
 i. The minimum distance from the metal base of th e antenna structure to the boundary of the other land 
shall be 5.0 m for all directions. 
 ii. The minimum distance from the meta l base of the antenna structure to the public gathering places such 
as preschool, day care centres, religious places, cinema hall etc. shall be 15.0 m   
 iii. The minimum distance from the metal base of the antenna structure to the   hospital building shall be 
100.0 m.   
2.  Ground Base Antenna Structu res – Height greater than 100.0m 
 
 i. The minimum distance from the metal base of th e antenna structure to the boundary of the other land 
shall be 10.0 m for all directions. 
 ii. The minimum distance from the meta l base of the antenna structure to the public gathering places such 
as preschool, day care centres, religious places, cinema hall etc. shall be 30.0 m.   
 iii. The minimum distance from the metal base of th e antenna structure to the hospital building shall be 
100.0 m.   
 
3.  Roof Top Antenna Structure - Height less than or equal to 100.0m. 
 
i. Minimum distance from the edge of the roof slab   
Tower Height (m) Distance to edge of the slab(m) 
Up to 15 1 
15 or 15 < 1.5 

<!-- page 148 -->

148 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
 ii. The minimum distance from su ch building to the pub lic gathering places such as preschool, day 
care centres, religious places, cinema hall etc., shall be 15.0 m. 
 
 iii. The minimum distance from such building to a hospital building shall be 100.0 m.   
4. In the case of an already constr ucted building, a copy of the approved Building Plan and Certificate of 
Conformity and in case of a building under construction the approved building plan and stability report 
from the Structural Engineer shall be submitted.  
 
5.   Accessibility  
 The minimum width of the access Road shall be as approved by the Authority but in no case, shall be less 
than 3.0m. However, in high terrain area, where no road constructions are permitted due to environmental 
impact, foot paths less than 3.0m wide may be considered. 
 
6.     Stability of the Tower 
  Developer shall submit a report to the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission regarding the structur-
al stability of the tower; obtained from a qualified Structural Engineer. 
 
 
 
Schedule 16  
                          [Regulation 107] 
 
Setbacks from Electricity Lines 
Nominal Voltages Vertical Distance Horizontal Distance 
Not exceeding 1000 Volts 2.40 m 1.50 m 
Exceeding 1000 Volts but not exceeding 11,000 Volts 2.70 m 1.50 m 
Exceeding 11,000 Volts but not exceeding 33,000 
Volts 3.00 m 2.00 m 
Exceeding 33,000 Volts but not exceeding 132,000 
Volts 4.10 m 4.10 m 
Exceeding 132,000 Volts but not exceeding 220,000 
Volts 5.18 m 5.18 m 

<!-- page 149 -->

149A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 150 -->

150 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 151 -->

151A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 152 -->

152 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 153 -->

153A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 154 -->

154 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය -  ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) –  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 


<!-- page 155 -->

155A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.07.08 
PART  I : Sec (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2021 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 