

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
1
1
wxl 1"740 - 2012 ckjdß 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'01'06
No. 1,740 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 06, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 3
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th January, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th
December, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,739 of 30.12.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
3
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd Feb ruary,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
15th December, 2011.
THE  SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ampara Lahugala Post of Additional Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  (General/Kandyan) of Panama Pattuwa   General, District Secretariat, Ampara
Division
01–62
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
KILINOCHCHI   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
4
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th of February,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th December, 2011.
THE  SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kilinochchi Poonakari Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Additional
  Pallavarayankaddu West Division and Registrar General, District
Marriages (General) of Poonakari Division Secretariat, Kilinochchi
01–95
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  IRRIGATION  AND
WATER  RESOURCES  MANAGEMENT
Irrigation Department
ENGINEERING ASSISTANTS SERVICE
IRRIGA TION DEPARTMENT
POST OF ENGINEERING ASSISTANT, CLASS II GRADE II
APPLICATIONS are invited for filling posts of Engineering
Assistants, Class II Grade II of the Engineering Assistants Service of
the Irrigation Department.
Application must be addressed to the Director General of
Irrigation, Department of Irrigation, No. 230, Bauddaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07 and sent under registered cover to reach me on or before
23.01.2012.
The words “Application for the post of Engineering Assistant,
Class II Grade II, Irrigation Department Engineering Assistant
Service” must be written on the left hand top corner of the envelope.
Any applications received after this date will be rejected.
2. Salary Scale.– The monthly consolidated salary after successful
completion of training period is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 14 x 240 -
Rs. 19,085. (This includes an Efficiency Bar Examination prior to
salary step of Rs. 16,205).
3. Educational and other qualifications :
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should not be less than 18 years or more than 30 years of
age on 23.01.2012 (The upper age limit will not apply to
employees in Provincial and State Service) ;
(c) Should have good conduct ;
(d) The candidate should be in good health and will have to
undergo medical test conduct by a Government Medical
Officer to ascertain whether the candidate is physically fit
to serve any part of the country ;
(e) The candidate should possess any one of the educational
qualifications as per (I), (II), (III) or (IV) given below :–
(i) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects
in not more than two sittings with Credit passes for
Language, Mathematics, English Language, Science and
one other subject ; and
Pass in G . C. E. (Advance Level) Examination in one
sitting with ordinary passes in four subjects inclusive
of Physics and Pure Mathematics ; or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
5
According to the new syllabus should have passed
G . C. E. (Advance Level) in three subject including
Combined Mathematics and Physics.
(ii) National Diploma in Technology (NDT) in Civil
Engineering from the university of Moratuwa or the
Hardy Technical College at Ampara, together with
one year’s practical (field) training and should have
passed the relevant examination with the Surveying
and Leveling and Irrigation Engineering  and obtaining
relevant certificates.
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) in
Civil Engineering, conducted by Advance Technical
Institute. Mattakkuliya, completed with Irrigation
Engineering and Surveying and Leveling as subjects.
(iv) National Diploma in Engineering Science (NDES) in
Civil Engineering, conducted by Institute of Engineering
Technology, Katunayake, completed with Irrigation
engineering and Surveying and Leveling as subjects.
Note.– Those who have completed the course and
are not in possesion of the certificate could also
apply but will be required to produce at the
interview and the effective date of certificate
should be before the closing date.
4. Method of recruitment :
(a) Recruitment will be made in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 15/90 and according to the
provisions of the Establishment Code.
(b) (i) The apprentices recruited with qualification under
Section 3.e(I) should follow a fulltime residential
training course conduct by the Department of
Irrigation in the Departmental Training Institute at
Galgamuwa for a period of two years. The
Apprentices who pass the relevant examinations
inclusive of the final examination will be attached to
the field for one year for practical training. After the
completion of the field training to the satisfaction of
the Director General of Irrigation, a practical test
will be held and those who pass are entitled to receive
the certificate of the diploma in Irrigation Engineering
awarded by the training Institute of the Department
of Irrigation.
(ii) Irrigation Apprentices who fail the relevant
examination shall be allowed to follow the training
extend by a period not more than six months at the
discretion of the Director General of Irrigation, if the
failure is not for the reasons of negligence of duties,
non interest or weak attendance. The Apprentices
who fail shall pass all relevant examinations including
the final examination, which will be held at the end
of the extended period of training. The Apprentices
who fail even this examination shall have their service
terminated.
(iii) It is desired that the Apprentices shall have a record
of satisfactory training by attending at least 80% of
the lectures during the period of training. In the event
of any Apprentices who does not have the required
minimum attendance and a satisfactory record of
training, will not be permitted to sit the relevant
examination and shall have the training terminated as
well.
(iv) The Apprentices who will be recruited on the
educational qualifications as per Section 3.e(II), (III)
or (IV) should pass a practical test as required by
the Department of Irrigation at the end of the six
month training which include lectures and practical
training.
(v) If these Apprentices have successfully completed
one-year field training at the Department of Irrigation
itself, after recruitment they will be exempted from
the requirement of six months training and they all
should pass the practical test.
(c) All the lectures and training courses will be conducted in
English medium.
(d) Those who complete the training successfully will be
appointed to Class II Grade II Engineering Assistants
Service of the Irrigation Department.
5. Service Conditions :
(a) These posts are permanent. Selected applicants should
contribute to contributory pension scheme. Those who
are holding pensionable posts at present are entitled for
pensions ;
(b) Applicants firstly, will be recruited as Irrigation
Apprentices ;
(c) Allowance paid for Irrigation Apprentices during the
period of training ;
During the entire period of training the following allowances
shall be paid to Irrigation Apprentices recruited on
qualification as per Section 3.e.(I).
During the first year Rs. 12,920 per month ;
During the second year Rs. 13,040 per month ;
During the third year Rs. 13,160 per month.
Apprentices recruited with qualification indicated as
Section 3.e.(II), (III) or (IV) shall be paid an allowance of
Rs. 13,160 per month during their six months training
period.
This allowances may continue to be paid during the extend
period of training with approval of the Director General
of Irrigation and with no entitlement for other privileges
or rights.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
6
(d) Irrigation Apprentices are subject to provisions of the
Establishment Code and other regulations issued from
time to time by the Government. They shall not be entitled
for leave or holiday railway warrants during the period of
training.
(e) The Apprentices after completion of the period of
Apprenticeship shall be appointed to Class II Grade II
Engineering Assistants and subject to three years
probations period from the date of formal appointment.
(f) Provisions from Section 10 to 12, Paragraph II of the
Establishment Code shall be applicable to this service.
(g) Selected candidates should be required to sign an agreement
undertaking, to serve compulsory period of 05 years as
Engineering Assistants. If the Officer fails to discharge
the period of compulsory under the agreement, he/she
should pay the full amount mentioned in the agreement to
the Government.
6. Applicants should send copies of the following certificates
along with their applications :–
(a) Technical certificates obtained ;
(b) G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Certificate ;
(c) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Certificate ;
(d) Birth Certificate issued by the Registrar General ;
(e) Three recent character certificates (One should be from
the Principal of the last school attended and another from
the Gramasevaka of the permanent living area).
Note.– The copies of the above certificates will not be returned.
7. Employees of Provincial and State Services, should send their
applications through the Head of their Department.
8. Applicants should present themselves for a written examination
to be held in Colombo, at their own expense.
9. Should be prepared to serve in any part of the country any
time as and when their services are required. The candidates should
note that the work sites at the department is normally situated in
remote areas with less transport and lodging facilities. Specially, the
selected candidates will be posted to one of the following stations
and has to work there at least for five years. Those who are not
willing to do so, need not apply. Stations are Irrigation Divisional
Offices such as Ampara, Potuwil, Kalmunai, Akkarapattu, Padaviya,
Rajanganaya, Huruluwewa, Mapakada, Badulla, Kandeketiya,
Nawakiri, Rugam, Tissa, Weeraketiya, Hambantota, Wellawaya,
Bibile, Monaragala, Polonnaruwa, Kaudulla, Elahera, Inginimitiya,
Puttalama, Muthtur, Kantale, Gomarankadawala, Murunkan, Vavunia
and Project Offices.
10. If any false information given in the application is revealed
before recruitment the Candidature is liable for cancellation. Their
service will be terminated, if false information is revealed after
recruitment. Legal action for providing mis information also can be
taken against such candidates.
11. Attention is drawn for rules and regulations for appointments
to Government Posts vide Part I, Para. II(A) of the Sri Lanka
Government Gazette.
Dr. (Eng.) G . G . A. G
ODALIYADDA,
Director General of Irrigation.
Irrigation Department,
No. 230, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
22nd December, 2011.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION
MINISTRY OF IRRIGA TION AND WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
IRRIGATION DEP ARTMENT
Engineering Assistant’s Service, Irrigation Department,
Posts of Engineering Assistant Class II Grade II
01. ( a) Full Name :––––––––––.
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
02. Sex :––––––––––.
03. ( a) Postal address :––––––––––.
(b) Permanent address :––––––––––.
(c) Telephone number :––––––––––.
Residence :––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––.
(d) E-mail address :––––––––––.
04. Residential district :––––––––––.
05. Divisional Secretary’s Division :––––––––––.
06. Date of birth (attach a copy of birth certificate) :
(a) Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(b) Place of birth :––––––––––.
(c) Age on 23.01.2012 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
08. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :––––––––. Yes/No :––––––––.
Race :
Sinhala Moor
Sri Lankan Tamil Others
Indian Tamil
09. Educational qualifications (Attach copies of certificate) :
9.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :
1st sitting :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
7
2nd sitting (if relevant) :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.2 G . C. E. (A/L) :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1. Mathematics
2. Physics
3.
4.
10. Technical qualifications (Annex copies of certificates) :––––––.
(Please give the name of the course and technical college)
11. If you have served in a Government Department or State
Corporation previously, indicate why you have resigned/left
service/been discontinued/been dismissed :––––––––––.
12. If employed at present, give details :––––––––––.
(a) Post :––––––––––.
(b) Institution :––––––––––.
(c) Date of appointment :––––––––––.
(d) Nature of appointment :––––––––––.
13. I hereby declare on my honour that the above particulars are true
and correct. I am also aware that if false or incorrect information
is contained in the above applications it is a disqualification for
selection and if it is revealed after recruitment it constitutes
adequate cause for termination of employment without any
compensation.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of Department/(for applicant in Government
Department and Provincial Council only) :
I hereby certify that .............................. is an employee of this
Department/Institution and his/her work and conduct is satisfactory
and conforms to the requirements and conditions set out for
application for this post. He/She could be/could not be released if
selected.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and
Institution/Authorized Officer,
Official Stamp.
Name :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
01–167

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
8
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2012
9
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
JANUARY 06.01.2012 Friday — 23.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
13.01.2012 Friday –– 30.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
20.01.2012 Friday –– 06.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
27.01.2012 Friday –– 13.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 03.02.2012 Friday — 20.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
10.02.2012 Friday –– 27.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
17.02.2012 Friday –– 03.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
24.02.2012 Friday –– 10.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 02.03.2012 Friday — 17.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
09.03.2012 Friday –– 24.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
16.03.2012 Friday –– 02.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
23.03.2012 Friday –– 09.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.03.2012 Friday –– 16.03.2012 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.