

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th August,  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd  July, 2021.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 140
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"237- 2021 cQ,s ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'07'16                                                      
No. 2,237 - FRID Ay,  JULy   16, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
139 -  B 82249 - 353 (07/2021)
Note .- (i) Contempt of Courts Bill is  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of 
Sri Lanka of July 09, 2021.
  (ii)  Finance Bill is  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of 
July 09, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'16
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 16.07.2021
140
miscellaneous notices
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General: - 4/10/67202 
Ref. No. of Divisional Secretary (Navithanveli): - LAN/
LEASE/05/2020/CK
notIfIcatIon  under  state  land 
regulatIon   no.   21(2)
IT hereby noticed that Mr. Nuwara Pakshage Amarakeerthi 
has requested a state land allotment in exent of about 01 acre 
depicted in the sketch prepared by the Government Surveyor 
and situated in the village of Chavalakade of Chavalakade 
Grama Niladhari division which belongs to Navithanveli 
Divisional Secretary’s division in the District of Ampara on 
lease for a commercial purpose. 
02. The boundaries of the land requested are given below.
On the North by   :  Road and Halmole Idama, Open  
  Waste Land, State
On the East by   :  Reservation for Road
On the South by   :  Halmole Idama, open waste land,  
  State
On the West by  :  Halmole land, open waste land,  
  State and road
The requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions and 
the following conditions.
 (a) Term of lease : Thirty (30) years (Thirty years from 
21.04.2021 on which the Hon. Minister granted 
approval)
 (b) Annual amount of the lease : In the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year of 2021 is less than 
five million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 2% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. In the instances where the valuation 
of land in the year of 2021 is more than five million 
rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the market value of the 
land in the said year, as per the valuation of the Chief 
Valuer. This amount of the lease must be revised in 
every five years and the revision shall be added a 20% 
of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied
 (c) The lessee must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than a commercial purpose.
 (d) The lessees must, within a period of one (01) year 
from the date of commencement of the lease, develop 
the said land to the satisfaction of the Provincial Land 
Commissioner/ Land Commissioner (Inter Provincial) 
/ Divisional Secretary.
 (e) This lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Provincial Land Commissioner / 
Divisional Secretary and other institutes.
 (f)  Existing / constructed buildings must be maintained 
in a proper state of repair.
 (g) If the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease.
 (h) No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 
years from the effective date of lease for subleasing 
or assigning.
 (i) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within 06 weeks of herein Gazette publication to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be 
leased out as requested.
 Sameera P. HettiaracHcHi,
  Assistant Land Commissioner For Land
  Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
‘Mihikatha Medura’, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
On 29th June, 2021.
07-451

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'16
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 16.07.2021
141
Land Commissioner General's No.: - 4/10/67801.
Provincial Land Commissioner's No: - NCP/PLC/L02/LTL.
notIfIcatIon  under  state  land 
regulatIon   no.   21(2)
THIS notifies that a request has been made by Ivana Hennadi-
ge Isuru Janith Chandrasiri to lease to carry out a metal crush-
ing industry in extent of 05 acre in Lot No. 01 in trace 10/5 
at Gambirigaswewa in Gambirigaswewa Grama Niladhari’s 
Division No. 309, Central Nuwaragam Palatha Divisional 
Secretary’s Division, Anuradhapura District.
02. The boundaries of the land requested are given below.
On the North by   :  by state owned land;
On the East by   :  by state owned land;
On the South by   :  by Kuda  Thammennewa reserve;
On the West by  :  by sub - way  reserve. 
03. It is able to lease the land requested for particular need. So, 
the government has intended to lease the land under conditions 
approved by the government.
 (a) Lease period: 30 years (from the date 19.04.2021)
Annual lease amount: in a time when the rate of evaluation of 
a land in the year 2021 is less than 5 million (Rs. 5,000,000), 
the rate will be 2% of market rate of the land for the year ap-
proved by Hon. Minister based on evaluation of chief valuer. 
In a time when the rate of evaluation of a land is more than 
5 million (5,000,000), the rate will be 4% of market rate of
the land for the year approved by Hon. Minister based on 
evaluation of chief valuer. This lease amount is subjected to 
the amendment for every 5 years and it should be added 20%
to annual lease amount levied in the end of past 5 years.
Payment by instalment: No payment by instalment is levied
 (b) This land should be used only for metal supplying  
  work and not for other causes;
 (c) During the period of one year of the lease started, it  
  should  be developed as to satisfy Provincial Land  
  Commissioner/ Deputy Land Commissioner/Divi - 
  sional Secretary.
 (d) This lease is subjected to other conditions made by  
Provincial Land Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary 
and others. Before carrying out the project, due  license 
approval must be taken from geological and   mining 
department and central environmental authority
 (e) The building erected/ being erected, should be 
maintained in proper developmental condition.
 (f) During the lease period, if the lesser is failed to achieve 
the goal to which he leased the land, the action will be 
taken to terminate lease.
 (g) The lesser is not allowed to sub-let or assign to other  part 
during 5 years since date the approved by the minister.
 (h) The rent should be paid without interuption. In case 
of default, the agreement would be automatically 
cancelled.
 (i) After getting rocks, the land should be duly renovated.
During 6 weeks of publication of Gazette notification, if you 
do not write reasonable causes of not leasing the land and 
submit to me, the lease will be made as per application.
 a. K. N. Sevv aNdi amaraSeKara,
  Assistant Land Commissioner For Land
  Commissioner General.
At  Department of Land Commissioner General, 
1200/6, Land Secretary General's Office, 
‘Mihikatha Medura’, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
16 th July, 2021.
07-458
PriNted at tHe dePartmeNt OF gOverNmeNt PriNtiNg,  Sri LaNKa.