

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of September 18, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21. 09. 2015)
ARUNDIKA FERNANDO RELIEF SERVICES AND
GODFREY FERNANDO MEMORIAL FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Janaka Wakkumbura, M. P. for
Ratnapura District.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
 (Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
2—PL 009218—300 (09/2015)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ARUNDIKA FERNANDO RELIEF
SERVICES AND GODFREY FERNANDO MEMORIAL FOUNDATION
WHERE an Foundation called and known as the
“Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey Fernando
Memorial Foundation” has heretofore been formed at
No. 65, Walawwaththa, Dankotuwa, of Puttalam District in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carring out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules  agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has hertofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Arundika Fernando
Relief Services and Godfrey Fernando Memorial
Foundation” (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement
of  this Act, such and so many persons as now
are members of the “Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”), or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style  of
“Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey Fernando
Memorial Foundation”, and by that name may sue and be
sued in all courts, with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Arundika
Fernando
Relief
Services and
Godfrey
Fernando
Memorial
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) assisting the poverty stricken elders and persons
with physical and mental disabilities to get rid of
their sufferings and to help them lead a better life;
(b) assisting the students who find it difficult to pursue
their education owing to poverty of their parents
being disabled, in whatever manner, providing
scholarships and financial grants;
(c) supporting the establisment of pre-school and
making arrangements to ensure upliftment of
children by devising programmes to develop them;
(d) assisting and aiding the development of library
facilities and organizing expert lectures and
workshops with a view to promoting education
among students;
(e) introducing technical expertise and skills required
to successfully run industries related to fisheries,
agriculture and commercial business, organizing
training workshops, providing financial assistance
to whatever possible manner and making available
various facilities connected thereto;
(f) identifying local artists in order to preserve
traditional cultural arts and conducting assessment
of them at various levels to encourage them and
making arrangements to obtain their maximum
contribution towards the preservation of traditional
cultural arts by offering them various facilities
required by them;
(g) effecting betterment of the lives of farmers and
fishermen by promoting small and medium level
industries and expanding infrastructure facilities;
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(h) making arrangements towards the promotion of all
places of religious worship and carrying out relevant
programmes to enhance mutual understanding
among followers of various religions aimed at
religious cohabitation;
(i) sponsoring the development of health, sanitation
and nutrition of pepole and children and making
arrangements to promote sports skills;
(j) making necessary interactions and giving relevant
instructions relating to the disposal of garbage
and other disposable items in a manner that
ensure the health of people and solve various issues
related to it;
(k) providing welfare facilities to the poor helpless
people at various levels and granting assistance
to them;
(l) carrying out any other activity that is deemed
necessary for the achievement of the objectives of
the Foundation; and
(m) working closely with  local and foreign
organizations with similar objectives of the
Foundation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with
such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Mr. Arundika
Fernando shall be the Chairman of the Board of Directors for
life and thereafter, the Family members of the person who
was holding office as the Chairman shall become the next
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall nuless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new members shall be appointed to fill such
Vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any
building or structures on any land held by the Corporation
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this  Act, or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and Board
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
of Directors, the quorum for such meetings and the
exercise and performance of their powers and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under the Act.
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payble to
the Centre.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable and
immovable which may become vested in it by virtue of any
purchase, grant, lease, gift, testamentary  disposition or
otherwise and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts
and liabilities of the Corporation or any other purpose, be
liable to make any contribution exceeding the among
of such membership fees as may be due from him to
the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be give or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to the those of the Corporation and which, is
or are by its or there rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members. Such institution
or institutions shall be determined by the Members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
(4) In this section "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of
any other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the council of such Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of
Chairman and an another member of the Board of Directors
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, or
corporate or of any other persons expect such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
5
10
Seal of the
Corporation.
15
20
25

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey
Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .