

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 4.00  Postage  : Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 02, 2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 28th September, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SERENDIB EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT,  N O . 54 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1   Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 54 of 2009
[Certified on 28th September, 2009]
L. D. — O. (Inc.) 25/2005.
A
N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  SERENDIB  EDUCA TIONAL  FOUNDA TION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Serendib
Educational Foundation” has heretofore been established
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Serendib Educational
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 54 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Serendib
Educational Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Serendib Educational Foundation” (hereinafter referred to
as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued
with full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to use and apply the funds of the Corporation to
grant scholarships and provide career guidance and
enhance educational, technical and professional
skills and economic welfare of Sri Lankan Muslims;
2—P L 003912—3,190 (05/2009)
Short Title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Serendib
Educational
Foundation.
General Objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 54 of 2009
(b) to guide and assist in the development of education
including technological education; and
(c) to assist and promote the advancement of the social
and cultural welfare of the Sri Lankan Muslims.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have power to—
(a) receive grants, gifts, donations and subscriptions in
cash or in kind;
(b) open, operate and close bank accounts;
(c) borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) engage, employ and dismiss personnel required to
achieve the objects of the Corporation; and
(e) perform and execute all such acts as may be
necessary for the promotion or furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6, be administered by a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).
(2) The Board shall consist of a President, two Vice
Presidents, a Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, a Secretary, an
Assistant Secretary and five other members elected annually
by the general members, in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
Board of Management of the Foundation holding office on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3   Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 54 of 2009
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of votes, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, in respect of all or any of
the following matters:—
(a) the procedure to be observed for the meetings
of the Board and the quorum for such
meetings;
(b) the election, appoitment and removal of the
members of the Board;
(c) the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members of the Corporation;
(d) the duties of the Board and of the various
officers and servants of the Corporation; and
(e) the administration and management of the
funds of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) There shall be a Fund of the Corporation which
shall consist of—
(a) all monies lying to the credit of the Foundation on
the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act; and
(b) all monies received by the Corporation by way of
gift, bequest, donation, contribution or grant.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 54 of 2009
(2) All monies lying to the credit of the Fund shall be
utilized to defray the expenses incurred in the management
of the affairs of the Corporation and the furtherance of its
objects.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
and all debts due to, including donations and contributions
payable to the Foundation on that date, shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, both movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act. The Corporation shall have full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
property of the Corporation.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited once
in every year by a qualified auditor appointed for the purpose
by the Board.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
Audit and
accounts.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Corporation.
Corporation may
hold movable
and immovable
property.

<!-- page 6 -->

5   Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 54 of 2009
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other association or
associations having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which is or are, by the rules thereof, prohibited from
distributing any income or profits among its or their members.
Such association or associations shall be determined by the
members of the Corporation  or immediately prior to the time
of the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body,
politic or corporation.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Serendib Educational Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 54 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.