

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2273$16 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2022'03'29
No. 2273/16  -  tuesdAy,  MArch  29,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications 
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
G 36479 — 19 (03/2022)
My No.: cI/1545
ThE  INDuSTRIAL  DISPuTES  ACT,  ChAPTER  131
the collective Agreement entered into between standard chartered Bank, No. 37, york street, colombo 01 of the one part 
and the ceylon Bank employees union, No. 20, temple road, colombo 10 of the other part on 1st April 2021 is hereby 
published in terms of section 06 of the Industrial disputes Act, chapter 131, of the Legislative enactments of ceylon (revised 
edition 1956).
 
B. K. PraBath ChandraKeerthi, 
commissioner General of Labour.
department of Labour,
Labour secretariat,
colombo 05,
09th March, 2022.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
2A
Collective Agreement No. 18 of 2021
this collective Agreement made this 1st of April, 2021 between standard chartered Bank, a Bank duly registered in sri Lanka 
and having its registered office at 37, York Street, Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”)
of the One Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office a 
20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
of the Other Part
Whereas the union made demands for re-negotiation of the standard chartered Bank collective Agreement of 2018 
which came into effect on 1st April 2018 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the union, agreement has 
now been reached between the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation 
between the Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining an efficient and productive working environment, the matters 
agreed upon are set out hereunder ;
1. Parties to be covered and Bound
this Agreement shall cover and bind standard chartered Bank (the Bank), the ceylon Bank employees union (the 
union) and members of the union employed on monthly contracts of employment by the Bank and who are employed in any 
of the categories as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom salary ranges have been prescribed in this agreement 
in the First schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). this Agreement shall not cover and bind any employee 
who is an Officer, Assistant Manager, Manager or any Other Staff on special rates of pay. 
2. Date of Operation and Duration
this Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April 2021 and shall continue until either party terminates it by written 
notice in terms of the Industrial disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31st March 2024. the union shall, 
however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised collective Agreement at any time on or after 1st July 2023.
3. Earlier Agreements
this Agreement shall supersede any other collective Agreement entered into a or binding on the parties hereto and 
such earlier Agreements including the standard chartered Bank collective Agreement of 2018 shall stand repudiated in 
respect of the parties hereto. 
4. Matters Covered and Bound
This agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised 
by the union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of this Agreement 
and the union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were 
discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed. 
the union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add 
to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this 
Agreement other than by mutual agreement with the Bank. 
5. Consolidated Salary
every employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of signing this Agreement shall, from the 1 
April 2021, be placed on the salary range set out in the First schedule hereto, which salary has been consolidated taking into 
consideration the payment in lieu of cost of Living stipulated in clause 7(I).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
3A
6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Ranges
For the placement of all employee on the salary range applicable in the First schedule with the exclusions to the 
above outlined in schedule 2 hereto, the following provisions shall apply. All G10 employees in service as at 31st March 
2021 shall be entitled to the following increase :
 I. A sum equal to 16% (sixteen Percent) of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable as at 
31st March 2021, shall be added to the salary of all eligible employees with effect from 1 April 2021.
7. Allowances
 I. Cost of Living Allowance
  Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance for 
the duration of the collective Agreement.
 (a) rs. 39,000 with effect from 1.4.2021 ;
 (b) rs. 41,500 with effect from 1.4.2022 ;
 (c) rs. 43,500 with effect from 1.4.2023 ;
  Provided, however, in the event of the department of census & statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining 
to the rate of payment in relation to the colombo consumers’ Price Index (ccPI) (Base year 2019/2020) 
and if your union makes a request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the Bank 
would be agreeable to do so.
 II. Disturbance Allowance
  With effect from 01st April 2021, an employee called upon to report for work before 7.00 a.m. shall receive 
rs. 500 per day, and if required to report before 6 a.m. shall receive rs. 700 per day.
 III. Teller Allowance
  With effect from 01.04.2021, teller will be paid a monthly risk allowance of rs. 4,000. this allowance shall 
be payable at the end of each quarter (i.e. March, June, september and december each year). this amount 
will be pro-rated for periods less than one month by dividing rs. 4,000 by 30 and multiplying by the number 
of days the employee has worked in the capacity of a teller. 
  The payment of the teller allowance will be made subject to the following conditions ;
 1. t he payment of the teller allowance can be suspended to those employees who are found to be negligent 
in performing duties, after due inquiry.
 2. Any cash shortage which cannot be recovered through insurance will be set off against the teller’s 
allowance.
 3. The Teller allowance will not be included for the purpose of computing consequential benefits.
 IV . Travelling Allowance
  With effect from 01st April 2021, traveling allowance of rs. 2,000 per month will be paid to all employees 
covered and bound by the collective Agreement. 
  transport will be provided to all employees working after 7.30 p.m.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
4A
 V . Night Shift Allowance
  With effect from 01st April 2021, a Night shift Allowance of rs. 1,000/- per shift will be paid to staff members 
who are required and authorized by Management to work from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.
8. Annual Variable Pay
With effect from 01 April 2021, an annual variable pays linked to the section II below will be paid to employees 
governed by this agreement. Variable pay awarded will be based on Bank’s new model for performance management, which 
is explained under section II below. the variable pay will apply in the range of 5% - 7% at the management discretion for the 
employees covered under this agreement. Variable pay will be differed, suspended or forfeited as appropriate for employees 
with risk, control and/or conduct issues and underperformance, as stipulated in clause 8 (III). If the disciplinary outcome of 
the investigated employee is not upheld, the employee’s annual variable pay will be paid with arrears. 
 I. Annual Variable Pay Date
  the annual variable pay date for all employees will be 1st of April each year thereafter.
 II. Assessment of Performance
  Our new model of performance management aims to support a performance-oriented, inclusive and innovative 
culture through the following outcomes : 
	
	 All colleagues will be encouraged to expand and give their best in their role
 	 Increased focus on learning, so that colleagues can grow themselves in their current role and develop 
their careers in the Bank, acquiring new skills for the future of work
 	 More recognition, both monetary and non-monetary, enabling colleagues to show appreciation to one 
another and feel appreciated for their efforts
 	 All colleagues will feel safe to innovate (through taking measured risks) and incentivized to collaborate
 	 colleagues will have a better understanding of their skills and abilities, both for their current roles and 
the roles to which they aspire in the future
  The goal setting process will transform from the existing annual objective-setting processes with separate 
valued behaviour content to process where employees will be able to set :
 	 Activities (short-term objectives) ;
 	 Objectives / Scorecards (as applicable), visible to all ; and
 	 Aspirational Goals
 	 No separate valued behaviour content
  In the current continuous performance management, the ratings awarded by People Leaders and calibrated by 
management teams based on valued behaviours (A to e) and performance (1 to 5) will be transformed into 
system of :
 	 No ratings (simplified approach). Performance viewed on a continuum from high to low All colleagues 
assumed to be ‘on track’ with the highest performers called out for additional recognition (monetary & 
non-monetary) and the lowest performers flagged (e.g., as ‘improvement required’)
 
	 regular performance check-ins by People Leaders to discuss what’s going well and areas for development.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
5A
  In the new performance management process, an objective talent identification and measurement tool, 
complemented by 360 feedback will be used instead of Subjective definition and measurement of talent           
(9 Box).
  currently, the employee recognition is steered through Multiple different recognition programmes such 
as ‘simply thank you’ and ‘Going the extra Mile’ with limited usage. however, in the new performance 
management process, there will be :
 	 Global recognition framework, with clear principles to guide how recognition is used and managed 
across the Bank.
  Global technology platform to facilitate recognition being given to/from any colleague Variety of 
recognition options including monetary recognition (e.g. cash or points with cash value) and non-
monetary recognition (e.g. e-cards).
  In the new performance management process, the employee will receive both quantitative and quantitative 
360o feedback, enabled by technology and broaden access to coaching and mentoring offerings via virtual 
and AI driven tools to support colleagues’ development needs.
  Any further changes to the performance management model, will be discussed and agreed by both parties at 
the next collective agreement. 
 III. Forfeiture of Variable Pay
  In order to maintain our pay for performance culture while increasing the focus on Group/business performance 
outcomes to foster greater innovation and collaboration, the variable pay will apply in the range of 5%-7% at 
the management discretion. evalution will be for preceding year and payments will be made in the succeeding 
year for the duration of this agreement, as stipulated in clause 8(I). however, the employee’s variable pay 
will be differed or suspended or stopped or forfeited on account of employees with risk and conduct issues of 
Medium or high severity including any disciplinary sanctions and for underperformances. the process will 
be guided by the Group regulation on Variable compensation Policy. the underperformers will be receiving 
continuous feedback from the management throughout the year starting from January to december, Based 
on the evaluation conducted by the management in December of ever year, if an employee is identified as 
underperformer, the variable pay will be deferred. employees are responsible to set goals after discussing 
with the people leader and responsible to achieve their set goals. If the required goals are unachieved, it is a 
definite indication that the employees will be considered as underperformer at the end of each year. 
  Provided however, an employee’s basic salary on receiving such an increase will not exceed the maximum 
salary point set out in the salary range in schedule 1 hereto. In the event of an employee reaching the maximum 
salary point on the range, the amount of increase granted over and above the maximum salary point will 
be paid as n annual lump sum bonus. the calculation for this payment will be the amount in excess of the 
maximum salary point on the range, as per the increase granted, multiplied by twelve. this lump sum bonus 
shall not attract any consequential benefits such as overtime, terminal benefits, statutory dues etc. 
9. Grading Structure
those covered and bound by this agreement are employees at Grade 10.
10. Promotions
Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at their discretion into any job grade, the Bank will consider 
suitable employees for promotions to higher job grades, based upon the Bank’s needs and vacancies that may arise from time 
to time. the decision of the bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive. Consideration will be 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
6A
given to performance, qualifications, experience, and merit when selections are made.  A minimum increase of 5% of basic 
salary will be granted when being promoted to a higher grade, in addition to the Variable Pay subject to the provisions and 
conditions in clause 8 (III).
In addition to staff being recommended by their senior Manager, staff may be granted the opportunity of directly 
making their own applications for consideration. Vacancies will be filled with existing staff wherever possible, however if 
applicants for such vacancies do not meet the required standards, the Bank will recruit externally. 
11. Provident Fund
 I. Rates of Contribution
  the rates of contribution to the provident Fund by the Bank as at the date of this Agreement which are as 
follows shall continue in force subject to the rules of the Provident Fund :
  Bank’s contribution – 12% (twelve per cent) of consolidated Gross salary
  employee’s contribution – 8% (eight per cent) of consolidated Gross salary  
 II. Interest on Provident Fund Contribution held by the Bank
  the committee of Management of the Provident Fund (the trustees) shall be entitled to decide on suitable 
investments of the Fund and the returns from time to time, based on the recommendations by the investment 
manager. 
12. Terminal Benefits
 I. Pensions
  the Bank operates two pension schemes.
  All current G10 employees will be governed by the scB pension scheme.
 (a) SCB Pension Scheme
 (i) Pension-Retirement
  With effect from the date of this Agreement, an employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms 
of his employment shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank and who is in the permanent 
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual 
continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed 
on the following basis :
  No. of completed years  Monthly salary
  service (max. 35 years) plus 5  x Payable in the month or retirement + cOLA
  —————————————
  55
 (ii) Pension-Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/disability
  An employee who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/
disability, as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who 
is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 
10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay) shall be entitled to a 
pension computed on the same basis referred to at clause 12 I a(i) above. Provided, however, that 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
7A
where an employee is entitled to compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or 
an Award of court, such employee shall only be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted 
by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose premature retirement 
occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of 
pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any 
balance compensation under any written law.
 (iii) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights 
  An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of 12 I(a) (i) or 12 I (a) (ii) above may 
at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other 
payments arising there from. the payment will be computed on the following basis :
  No. of completed years  1.5 x (basic salary plus cost of Living
  service (max. 35 years) plus 5  x Allowance calculated for the month of retirement)
  The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the 
Bank on account of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, efficiency, if any, 
in the Bank’s contribution to Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension in terms of clause 
12 I (a) (i) or 12 I (a) (ii) above. 
 (iv) Commuted Pension
 (i) At the option of the employee at the time of retirement on or after 1st April 2006, 25% of 
the monthly pension into 120 will be paid to employees who are entitled to a pension, who 
do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in the agreement and who opt for such 
commuted pension.
 (ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly 
pension payable to him during the first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly 
pension he would have been entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted 
his pension. After the expiry of the said ten years the amount of the monthly pension so 
commuted will be restored and added to the monthly pension then being paid. 
 II. Death Gratuity (Non-Accidental Natural Death)
  With the renewal of the Group life cover for 2020/2021, with effect 1 November 2020, scB sri Lanka is 
aligned to the Group well being standard of 4 times, where dependents will be eligible to receive a lump sum 
of a minimum of 4 times annual base salary on death (with salary limited to us$1 million or local currency 
equivalent), subject to the rules of the relevant plan. This cover will also cover COVID deaths during 
employment as well. 
 III. Gratuity upon Resignation/Termination Prior to Retirement
  An employee shall, upon resignation/termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which 
do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to at the aforementioned Clauses 12 I (a) and 12 I (b) be 
entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30 
days of the cessation of employment.
  the salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at clause 5 and the cost of Living Allowance 
referred to at clause 7(a) hereof.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
8A
  completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/
leave without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.
  No benefits granted under these rules shall be assignable or transferable to any person or corporation other 
than the Bank. The Bank would, however, have a right of lien over benefits in the event of fraud or dishonesty 
by any employee, resulting in a loss to the Bank. 
13. Funeral Assistance
With effect from 01st April 2018, the Bank will grant assistance to the family of a staff member, who expires while 
in service, by way of meeting the actual cost of funeral expenses, subject however, to a maximum limit of Rs. 200,000/-
the Bank will also grant assistance to an employee in service, in the event of the death of a spouse or child (below 
21 years of age). In such an instance, the bank will assist to meet the actual cost of funeral expenses, subject to a maximum 
limit of rs. 100,000.
In addition to the above, the Bank will assist to meet the cost of funeral expenses in the event of a death of a parent 
(this may include father/mother whether it be the biological, adopted or stepmother/father) subject to a maximum of Rs. 50,000.
14. Medical Scheme
With effect from 01st April 2021, the following benefits would be made available through the Bank’s medical 
insurance scheme in line with benefits made available for all staff. 
 I. Reimbursement of Outdoor Medical Expenses (OPD)
  the Bank shall reimburse an employee, through an Insurance service Provider, up to a maximum of rs. 
60,000 per annum, in respect of medical expenses incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse 
or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18, parents and parents-in-law, provided however, that any 
medical claim on this account shall be supported by relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts. Provided further, 
that the prescriptions or doctors bills shall be from a registered medical practitioner. this facility shall be per 
annum and non-cumulative. 
 II. Special Non-hospitalization and Non-surgical Expenditure
  the Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of rs. 7,500 
per annum on account of special non-hospitalization and non-surgical expenses covering the following items 
only incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members : 
  (a) dentures
  (b) hearing Aids
  Subject to the provisions that no claim is made in relation to items (a) and (b) more than once in three years.
  Provided in the case of spectacles the Bank will reimburse an employee a sum of rs. 20,000 in lieu of expenses 
only once every two (2) years. In the case of spectacles the claim must further be supported by documentary 
evidence as required by the Insurance service Provider. Any claim made for spectacles will be deducted from 
the special Non hospitalization and Non surgical Allowance of rs. 7,500 per year. 
  The Bank at its discretion may consult appropriate medical opinion for confirmation in respect of a claim 
made under 14(II) above.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
9A
 III. Surgical and hospitalization Expenditure
  An employee would be entitled to the benefits on account of surgical and hospital expenses in respect 
of hospitalization on his own behalf, if his spouse, unmarried dependent children, parents and parents-
in-law, up to a maximum limit of rs. 500,000 (rupees For hundred thousand) for any one year.  
  A dependent parent shall only include a parent who resides with and is totally dependent upon the staff member 
and shall not be in receipt of any source of income/Pension/grant, etc., as may be verified by the Bank.
  the year for this purpose would be a calendar year i.e. 1st January to 31 december of each year.
  Reimbursement of Surgical and hospital Expenses is subject to conditions specified by the insurers. Any 
changes to the conditions of the policy will be applied accordingly.
  All payments on account of this facility will be strictly confined to the direct payment or reimbursement of 
actual bills from a nursing home or government hospital. 
  In the case of admission to a non-paying Government hospital, the staff member will be entitled to a payment 
of rs. 1,500 (One thousand Five hundred) per day of admission to meet the cost of travelling and incidental 
expenses plus the actual cost of any drugs etc. prescribed by the surgeon/doctor.
  Married family unit consists of employee, spouse and two children, up to two parents of the employee, and 
up to two parents-in-law. unmarried family unit consists of the employee and both parents.
  the third schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
 IV . Maternity Grant
  With effect from 01st April 2018, an employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of rs. 20,000 in 
respect of twin births of children. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall be entitled to this 
grant.
  this grant will be payable via the Bank’s insurance provider, under the hospitalization insurance referred to 
in clause 14 (III).
15. Retirement
 (a) the age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its 
employees, and on reaching the age of 55, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso 
facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such 
employee any notice of such retirement.
 (b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and 
has 10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his Union and the 
employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party 
to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.  
16. Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to every 
employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) as drawn 
by such employee for the month of december in respect of one complete year of service meaning January to december and 
proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month 
of service. the salary for this purpose shall include the cost of living allowance payable for that month. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
10A
17. Personal Accident Insurance
The Bank will take insurance cover against compensation payable to staff, resulting from injury or death, arising out 
of any accident, in Sri Lanka, 24-hour cover and benefits will be provide as per the terms outlined by the insurance provider.
 I. Category of Employees Covered 
  All categories of staff.
 II. Limit of Indemnity
  Over of 12 times of monthly gross salary or rs. 15,000,000 whichever is less per employee. For technicians 
and cash carriers, coverage is up to 72 times of monthly gross salary or 15,000,000 whichever is less per 
employee.
 III. Table of Compensation
  The local insurer personal accident cover terms for accidental bodily injury, will remain applicable as per the 
SC Insurance Policy. Benefit will be in line with the agreement with the local health insurance.
  With effect from 1 November 2020, sc Group policy on compensation of terminal illness is in effect.
  Note :
 
	 Terminal illness is determined when the doctor has confirmed that the collegue’s lifespan is ending soon, 
subject to the policy schedule.
 
	 critical illness – the list critical illness will be as per the sc Group policy with sub criteria to be met 
and subject to changes/policy schedule. Assessment of claim eligibility will be on a case by case basis.
 IV . Limitations
  Benefits under III (iii) above shall be payable only at the end of the 52nd week from the date of injury.
  Payment shall not be made under more than one of the scales of compensation specified at III (i) (ii) or (iii) 
above.
  No further liability to make any payment for any employee shall attach to the insurers or the Bank, after a 
claim under the scales of compensation specified at III (i), (ii) or (iii) have been admitted and become payable.
  While the bank will make every effort and care in lodging claims for compensation, it will not accept 
responsibility or liability in respect of any claims that may not be accepted or in which liability is repudiated 
by the insures, under any circumstances whatsoever. 
18. Loan Facilities
 I. housing Loan 
  The Bank shall arrange the Staff Housing Loan through a Service Provider as deemed fit. 
 (a) Eligibility
  Five years service with a record of good performance as determined by the Bank for the past 2 years. 
 (b) Limit : Rs. 4,000,000/-

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
11A
 (c) Quantum of Loan
 (i) the maximum loan entitlement shall be such capital sum as per the above limits which the staff 
member shall be capable of repaying in full including interest, prior to his/her retirement, within the 
monthly salary deduction of sixty per centum (60%) of gross salary on account of all loans availed 
of & other deductions.
 (ii) the loan shall be in respect of 100% of the cost of the house and property, including legal charges 
and stamp duties and the cost of the single premium life insurance premia. In the case of purchase 
of land and construction of a house thereon, there should be clear proof to the satisfaction of the 
management, that the staff member will be completing the purchase of land and construction of a 
house thereon, within the loan entitlement, ie. Loans will not be available for partial construction 
of a house. 
 (d) Interest 
  Interest shall be charged monthly on the outstanding balance and shall be recovered along with the 
principal at 2% per annum.
 (e) Repayment
  repayment period shall be extended up to the point of retirement of a staff member
 (f) Security
 (i) Mortgage over property
 (ii) Promissory Note (where Mortgage has not yet been signed)
 (iii) t emporary decreasing Life Insurance Policy
 (iv) Any other form of security arrangements recommended by the Bank’s Attorneys or considered 
necessary in the circumstances by the Bank.
 (g) Restrictions
 (i) t he housing loan facility is a one-off facility that will accrue to a staff member only once during his/
her employment except, however, in the case of  staff member who shall sell the house purchased 
against the loan and repay such loan in full, whereupon such staff member may be entitled to a 
further loan to purchase another house and property subject to the satisfaction of the Bank that 
such reinvestment was for the improvement of living standards within reasonable limits of the 
staff member and family. 
 (ii) Loans will be available only to build, re-build or extend a house, but not for repairs.
 (iii) In the case of the purchase of a house and property, the needs of such house and property shall be 
examined by the Bank’s lawyers and a Certificate of good title obtained.
 (iv) Loans will not be granted to staff members who shall not reside in the house being purchased, 
built or extended, as the case may be
 (v) A valuation of the house and property should be obtained from a Certified/Qualified Valuer, con-
firming the value of such house and property.
 (vi) A Certificate of Non-Vesting should be obtained from the Municipal/Urban Council Authorities.
 (vii) A Certificate to be obtained from the Municipal/Urban Council Authorities that the Municipal 
rate, electricity, Water Bills, etc, have been paid in full, upto the date of transfer.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
12A
 (viii) the house and property must be kept in good condition at all times and should be made available 
for inspection by the Bank from time to time during the operation of the loan.
 (ix) This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under “Loans General 
Restrictions”
 II. Vehicle Loan 
  
  staff vehicle loans shall be arranged through the Bank in line with Bank’s policies 
 (a) Eligibility
  three years service with a record of good performance, as determined by the Bank.
 (b) Quantum of Loan
  the maximum loan entitlement shall be such capital sum which the staff member shall be capable of 
repaying in full including interest, prior to his/her retirement, within the maximum monthly salary 
deduction of sixty per centum (60%) of consolidated gross salary on account of all loans availed of & 
other deductions. salary for this purpose shall be the salary drawn by the staff member as at date of 
application. 
 (c) Interest
  3% per annum, applied monthly
 (d) Repayment 
  Not more than 72 monthly installments in the case of Motor Vehicles and 36 installments in the case of 
Motor cycles/scooters. 
  In the case of employees with more than 5 years service, the repayment shall be extended to cover a 
period of 10 years.
 (e) Security
 (i) Mortgage over vehicle or unencumbered lien over Provident Fund.
 (ii) demand Promissory Note pending execution of Mortgage Bond
 (iii) Lien over total Provident fund balances
 (iv) comprehensive Insurance Policy to cover the full prevailing market value of the vehicle and cover 
all risks, including “Learner Driver” where applicable.
 (v) registration Book of the vehicle to be lodged with the Bank pending execution of Mortgage bond 
and registration of same with the registrar of Motor Vehicles. 
 (f) Restrictions
 (i) The staff member is free to pay more than the minimum repayment installment, subject however, 
to the restriction specified under “Loans-General Restrictions”.
 (ii) the vehicle to be for the personal use of the staff member concerned and cannon be hired, rented 
or leased.
 (iii) the staff member or spouse must posses a valid driving license issued by the registrar of Motor 
Vehicles, to drive the class of vehicle for which the loan is obtained.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
13A
 (iv) In the case of second hand vehicle a Valuation report should be obtained from the local agent, the 
Automobile Association of ceylon or any other Valuer recognized by the Bank and the quantum 
of loan shall not exceed the amount of such valuation. 
 (v) In the case of all purchases the payment shall be made by pay Order drawn directly in favour of 
the seller, for the purchase value of such vehicle.
 (vi) the vehicle must be kept in good condition at all times and should be made available for inspection 
by the Bank from time to time.
 (vii) No further loans under this facility will be available to a staff member even though the total has 
been repaid, in full if such staff member is in possession of a vehicle earlier purchased under the 
same facility.
 (viii) This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under “Loans General 
Restrictions”
 III. Personal Loan 
  
 (a) Eligibility
  One year’s service, with a record of good performance as determined by the Bank. 
 (b) Quantum of Loan
  Maximum nine months gross salary. salary for this purpose shall be the salary drawn by the staff member 
as at date of application. 
 (c) Interest
  4% per annum, applied monthly
 (d) Repayment 
  Not more than 48 monthly installments. 
 (e) Security
 (i) Promissory Note in favour of the Bank.
 (ii) un-encumbered lien over Provident fund total balances.  
 (f) Restrictions
  Personal Loan enhancements will be available only after repayment of 12 installments
  This facility shall further be subject to the general restrictions specified under “Loans General 
Restrictions”.
 IV . Surgical & hospitalization Loan 
  Where any staff member requests for financial assistance, the bank will grant such staff member a letter addressed 
to the hospital/nursing home undertaking to settle bills in full, where such hospitalization expenses qualify for 
reimbursement under the conditions of the surgical & hospital expenses scheme, provided however, that all 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
14A
expenses, hospital charges, etc., which do not qualify for reimbursement, will be recoverable from the staff 
member concerned, who my if he so desires, request for such recovery in installment. recovery shall be in 
no more than 36 monthly installments, interest free. 
  This facility shall, however, be further, subject to the general restrictions specified under “Loans-General 
Restrictions”.
 V . Festival Advance
  
 (a) Quantum & Conditions
  One month’s gross salary for any one festival each year of the employee’s choice, repayable in 10 equal 
installments, interest free, provided further, that such Festival Advance will not be payable until the 
Festival Advance paid previously, has been recovered in full. 
 (b) Restrictions 
  the total deduction from the staff member’s salary including this recovery and all other deductions shall 
not exceed 60% of the staff members consolidated gross salary. 
 VI. Loans-General Restrictions
  
 (i) BANk POLIcy OF GrANtING LOANs – Loans, unlike salary and perquisites are not automatically 
due to any employee. staff loan facilities, at highly concessional rates of interest and very soft repayment 
periods are regarded by the Bank as a costly fringe benefit, only available to staff with a good record of 
overall performance. staff who, therefore, do not possess a good record of performance, as assessed by 
the Bank will not qualify to enjoy these loan facilities.
 (ii) rePAyMeNt restrIctIONs 60% OF GrOss sALAry – MAxIMuM LIMIt ON AccOuNt 
OF ALL deductIONs (INcLudING LOAN PAyMeNts) shALL NOt exeed 60% - While the 
staff member is free to avail himself of loans in any proportions (subject to the restrictions) under no 
circumstances whatsoever, shall the total deductions from such staff member’s monthly salary including 
all loan deductions exceed 60% of such staff member’s monthly gross salary.
 (iii) rePAyMeNt thrOuGh sALAry ONLy – the recognized means of repayment of all staff Loan 
Facilities will be exclusively confined to recoveries from monthly salary, except at the time of termination 
when repayment from balance dues and in cash will be acceptable.
 (iv) Accordingly under no circumstances will employee be permitted to manipulate, improve and/or advance 
their loan facilities under any of the loan facilities by repayment in cash or any other means, excluding 
normal deductions from salary.
 (v) seNIOr MANAGeMeNt dIscretION – the above terms and conditions will generally apply in 
respect of all loan schemes referred to in these terms of service. however, the General Manager may 
exercise his discretion referred to above, to the benefit of any staff member, subject however, to the 
condition that the restriction pertaining to the maximum period of repayment and the maximum deduction 
of 40% of his gross salary, as defined in the above scheme cannot be varied and shall strictly apply.
 (vi) cessAtION OF stAFF MeMBer’s eMPLOyMeNt – In the event of there being a balance outstanding 
under any loan facility at the date of cessation of a staff member’s employment, such balance shall be 
immediately repayable in full and all concessions enjoyed by the staff member under these terms of 
service shall cease forthwith. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
15A
 (vii) BANk’s LIeN OVer PrOVIdeNt FuNd – In terms of the rules of the Grindlays Bank ceylonese staff 
Provident fund the Bank enjoys a first and paramount lien on 75% of the aggregate balance, (including 
interest) lying to the credit of a staff member in respect of any loans or salary advance or any other dues 
to the Bank, which the bank may exercise, for recovery in the event of the termination of death of a staff 
member.
 (viii) uNsecured LOANs, reduce PrOVIdeNt FuNd LOANs – All staff loans, excluding housing 
Loans, are categorized ‘uNsecured LOANs’ and, the Provident Fund committee of Management 
should be advised that when granting employee loans against their Provident fund balance, the entitlement 
has to be reduced by the total amount of ‘uNsecured’ staff loans. Also similarly the eligibility under 
the staff loans scheme will be reduced by the amount of the outstanding Provident fund Loan. i.e. the 
lien on Provident Fund monies can only be of value if such monies are available to the Bank. 
 (ix) MIsuse – In the event of any staff member being found to misuse these loan facilities or violating the 
terms and conditions of any of these schemes the Bank may at its discretion so advise the staff member 
and apply the commercial rate of interest on the loan and increase the repayment and also impose any 
further action it may deem necessary against any such staff member in the circumstances. 
19. Probation
Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine months probation subject to the right of the Bank 
to extend the period of probation by a further period of three months. 
20. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors
 (a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at 
any one given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be 
present at inquiries before the Labour department, Labour tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial courts, and 
with their respective Bank Managements – exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
 (b) It is agreed that central committee Members (General council) of the union will be permitted to leave 
at 12.30 p.m. on 12 days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation General council Members, they 
would be permitted leave for the whole day for 12 General council Meetings in a year.
 (c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General councilors to 
attend Parent union General council meetings.
 (d) It is agreed that executive committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the executive 
committee of the union. these meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
21. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches
The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave to visit outstation branches 
calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are x branches the total number of days 
paid leave available shall also be x. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than 30 miles from colombo.
22. Overtime
 (a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by 
the employer, subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
 (b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees 
Act. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
16A
23. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave
 I. Annual Leave 
 (a) Entitlement
  In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to december) during which 
an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 
working days paid leave. he shall avail himself of at least 10 days out of the 21 days on successive days 
and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.
  At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :
 (a) the full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 
1st April.
 (b) A holiday of 15 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
 (c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, 
and
 (d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
 (b) Availment
  the availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’s 
application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient. 
Availments shall be in not more than two installments, each year.
 (c) Accumulation
  Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes :
 (a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
 (b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill. 
 (c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.
 (d) For marriage of the employee.
 (e) For use during prolonged illness of the employee, when the medical leave quantum (including 
accumulated medical leave) is exhausted.
 (f) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current 
year’s leave.
 (g) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
  Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the 
Management. Family member for purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
  Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year and 
provided further that such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days and 
shall not be encashed under any circumstances.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
17A
 (d) holiday Reimbursement
  All employees will be entitled to reimbursement of the expenses incurred by them during their Annual 
Leave holiday, up to a maximum value of half month’s gross salary once every year. the gross salary 
for this purpose shall be the gross salary payable to such employee for the month of January entitlement 
of the respective year. This benefit is non-cumulative and will lapse if not availed of during the year. 
 II. Medical Leave 
 (a) Entitlement
  An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in subclause (b) hereof.
 (b) Availment
  the Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not 
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner ;
 (a) where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, 
or
 (b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by  a 
Medical Practitioner, is in excess of ten (10) days. 
  the Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/
or take any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness occurs in the 
following circumstances ;
 (a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for 
absence of an employee, or 
 (b)  Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes 
any weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the 
application and/or reason for abosence of the employee.
 (c) Accumulation
  An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled 
to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject 
to the following provisions :
 (a)  in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed 
ninety (90) days, and
 (b)  the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization 
or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner. 
 (c) where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such 
as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization an employer may permit him to set off any 
further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the 
leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness. 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
18A
 III. Casual Leave
  An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment 
whereof not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede or 
follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason 
for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been 
foreseen by such employee. 
24. Suspension
 (i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the 
provisions of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to 
six months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee 
concerned.
 (ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or 
misappropriation, the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless 
the inquiry is not concluded within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive 
half his salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months 
period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the 
employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold of conclude the 
inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
 (iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from 
concluding the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such 
as where the employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police 
custody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive 
half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances. 
25. Disciplinary Procedure
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case of oral warning, 
letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply :
 (a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show 
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause 
letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in 
writing to the charges preferred. 
 (b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the 
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable 
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation 
and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time 
as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
 (c)  If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause 
and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee 
and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to 
such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension. 
 (d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is 
not satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub-clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into 
the charges against such employee.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
19A
 (e) the Bank shall commen ce an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the 
date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so 
for reasons beyond the Bank’ control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason 
of unforeseen circumstances.
 (f) the Bank will permit a member of the Branch union of the same Grade or of a higher Grade than the accused 
employee or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to 
itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) or a central committee 
Member of the union employed in the Bank to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided 
he defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any loss 
of salary for absence from work on this account. the Bank will further allow another member of the Branch 
union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. the accused 
employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and Observer not less than 
48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. the defending employee shall be 
entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. the 
Inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to 
withdraw therefrom and the defending employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement. 
the absence of a defending employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason 
whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The 
Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the 
Inquiring Officer may ask him.
 (g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and 
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and 
a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true 
copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring Officer. 
 (h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution 
as well.
 (i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in 
writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
 (j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days 
except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee 
shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be 
drawn in respect of such charges. 
 (k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any 
of the following circumstances :
 (i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to 
sow cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such 
employee had no cause to show.
 (ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
 (iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request 
the Bank thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within 
twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or     
relevant.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
20A
 (l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding 
on the Bank and the employee and the union, unless the employee or the union shall within three (3) months 
from the date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute 
in respect of such findings and/or punishment. 
 (m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –
 (i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall 
take effect as from the date of suspension or such later date as he Bank may determine ; provided further 
that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary 
to the employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made. 
 (ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith 
and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to 
the right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the 
whole or part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry. 
 (n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses e, (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held 
in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other 
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the 
employee.
 (o) the above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this 
Agreement. 
26. Technology
 (i) t he Fourth schedule hereto contains matters relating to new computer Based Banking technology agreed 
upon between the parties.
 (ii) the union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new computer 
Based Banking technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement.
 (iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (ii) above, the union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute 
on matters relating to computer Based Banking technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that 
regard and any representations/dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial 
dispute under the laws of sri Lanka. 
 (iv) It is agreed that any matter raised by the union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers 
shall be referred to the Monitoring committee set up under the collective agreement for resolution. In 
the event of the Monitoring committee not being able to satisfy the union, such matter shall be referred 
to the department of health and safety of the Labour department and the recommendation given by the 
doctor-in-charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changes are necessary in terms of such 
recommendation the Monitoring committee shall prevail on the Bank to implement such changes.
27. Trade union Action
 I. Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of 
trade union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action 
against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
21A
 II. Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of 
trade union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action 
against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may raise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
 (i) the Branch union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably 
with the Bank, at which stage the Branch union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer 
such matter to the Parent union (the ceylon Bank employees’ union).
 (ii) the Parent union (the ceylon Bank employees’ union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted 
all form of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/or the employers’ Federation 
of ceylon.
 (iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent union has to 
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory 
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. such notice shall be given to 
the Bank, the employers’ Federation of ceylon and to the commissioner of Labour. 
28. union Check-off Facilities
during the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the union has not less than forty (40) percent 
membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however, 
that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the union violating any of the 
provisions of this collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
29. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement
Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being 
implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology change such matter shall 
be dealt with by a Monitoring committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and two 
representatives from the union. the Bank or the union may request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring committee 
by communication addressed to the employers’ Federation of ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under section 3 of 
the Industrial disputes Act, 1950.
30. Consequences of Termination of Agreement
On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union 
and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
31. Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following 
meanings :
Bank standard chartered Bank
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement
Employer standard chartered Bank

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
22A
Cost of Living Allowance the payment in lieu of the cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner set 
out in clause 7(1) hereof
Parent union the ceylon Bank employees’ union
Branch union the Branch union of the ceylon Bank employees’ union a standard chartered 
Bank
Dispute a dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial dispute in the Industrial 
disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the Branch 
union of the ceylon Bank employees’ union.
Salary shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice vers.
ThE FIRST SChEDuLE
Clerical Salary Ranges
rs. 16,500/- to rs. 70,000/-
ThE SECOND SChEDuLE
Maximum salary point would be as stipulated in the salary ranges in schedule I.
Id Name
1139930 sirimanne, Moksha
1139766 Abayasekera dilruwani
1139785 emmanuel, dinesh Fransisco
1197391 udayanga, don yasantha
1234769 Nazoordeen, Mohammed
ThE ThIRD SChEDuLE
(1) (a) The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 14(iii) 
of the Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming 
eligible to be included in this scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
(2) Reimbursements on hospitalization is applicable where confinement to a hospital as a registered inpatient for 
treatment of a disease necessitates to have full time doctor’s observation and hospitalized management after the 
initial surgical or medical treatment.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
23A
(3) The Insure must be notified promptly at the point of admission to the hospital.
(4) the Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the 
employee shall be required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms) 
and submit documentation required by Bank/Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to 
obtain reimbursement from the Insurance companies. the Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time 
to time the documentary requirements and time limits within which documents should be submitted. Where an 
employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this Scheme.
(5) Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under 
this Scheme and any deviation would disqualify the employee from received any benefit under this Scheme. In 
addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
(6) (a) the Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of hospitals/nursing homes, 
expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for  reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and/or deletions 
to this list will also be made by internal circular.
 (b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the 
Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of 
amendments to the list  referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a 
named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such application on a case by case basis and, 
where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the decision of the 
Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive. 
(7) exclusions
 The Scheme shall not cover benefits/expenses :
 (a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside Sri 
Lanka.
 (b) Occasioned by or happening through 
 (i) the participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign 
enemy, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil War, rebellion, revolution, Insurrection, 
Mutiny or usurped Power, Military, Popular rising or while serving as a member of any defence, 
Police, security Force, home Guard etc.
 (ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal disease, Insanity and Illnesses resulting from Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
 (iii) Normal childbirth or pregnancy subject to clause 14(iv). Provided that if an employee has been 
employed for a continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred 
for any abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. 
the responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as 
a letter from the doctor/hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
 (iv) earthquake, V olcanic eruption or tidal Wave
 (v) Any other Insurance industry-wide accepted exclusions.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
24A
 (c) Incurred whilst traveling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard 
type of civil aircraft operated by a recognized Airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type 
of civil aircraft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air charter company or owned by a 
Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License. 
 (d) In respect of eye tests or dental treatment
 (e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
(8) The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in Clause 14(iii) of the 
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join 
during the course of a year the overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st december will 
be pro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st december.
(9) In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of 
the entitlement of either or both years, subject, however, to the event limit specified in Clause 14(iii) of the               
Agreement. 
ThE  FOuRTh  SChEDuLE
the parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the use of computer Based Banking technology by the Bank 
covered and bound by this Agreement. 
(1) (a) In selecting computers and related equipment, the Bank will attempt to obtain equipment which will ensure 
the following.
 (i) screens that give clear stable images.
 (ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
 (iii) equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
 
 (b) the Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of computers 
and related equipment.
  the Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing 
documents and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees. the Bank will also 
endeavor to provide lighting facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of Vdus.
(2) Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminate by a date entry operator causes a certain amount of strain, 
the Bank is regreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours 
so long as there is no disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes. 
(3) the Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in 
consequence of the introduction of new computer Based Banking technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself 
of any one or more of the following options. 
 (a) the aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections/departments to perform work 
which is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such 
time in relation to such employees. this option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment 
which the Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled to effect.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 29.03.2022
25A
 (b) the Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, r-train an employee if the employers consider it 
necessary.
 (c) the Bank will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in 
this Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and 
this will not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this schedule. 
(4) For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary  termination of the employees made 
redundant consequent upon the introduction of new computer Based Banking technology. It will not include a 
situation where such redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed 
upon.
 In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this Nineth day of July 2021 at colombo. 
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
standard chartered Bank ceylon Bank employees’ union
Name : Bingumal thewarathanthri Name : channa dissanayake
Designation : Chief Executive Officer Designation : President
standard chartered Bank cBeu
Name : ransi dharmasiriwardhana Name : k. A. s. Anupa Nandula
designation : head of human resources designation : Vice President
standard chartered Bank cBeu
Witnesses :
Name : Vijaya Hettiarachchi Name : Dinesh Emmanuel
designation : Attorney at Law/Industrial relations Advisor  designation : President
employers Federation of ceylon  cBeu standard chartered Branch
Name : Gajendraprasath Nagaraja Name : Achala Amarasinghe
designation : senior Manager, employee relations designation : secretary
standard chartered Bank cBeu standard chartered Branch
eOG 3 - 1028 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.