

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.08.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1721$19 - 2011 wf.daia;= 30 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2011'08'30
No. 1721/19 - TUESDAY ,   AUGUST  30,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
L.D.B. 21/1978 (viii).
THE  UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  No.  16  OF  1978
Order under Section 25A
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by section 25A of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, I, Dissanayake Mudiyanselage
Sumanaweera Banda Dissanayake, Minister of Higher Education, having obtained a report under section 70C of the aforesaid
Act in respect of the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (Pvt). Ltd. (SAITM) a company incorporated in Sri
Lanka under the Companies Act, No. 7 of  2007, do by this Order and subject to the conditions specified in the Schedule hereto,
recognize the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (Pvt) Ltd. (SAITM) as a Degree Awarding Institute for the
purpose of developing higher education therein, leading to the award of the Degree of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of
Surgery (MBBS).
SCHEDULE
APPLICABLE CONDITIONS
1. Maintain an appropriate student staff ratio taking into consideration the permanent academic staff and the
extended faculty of specialists in undergraduate teaching institutions.
2. Provide a commitment, which is continued and uninterrupted, in respect of :-
(a) the teaching to be extended by the faculty and the academic programme leading to the award of Degree
of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) including such modifications relating to
terminology as may be required;
(b) the facilities to be put in place relating to the conduct of clinical training by the faculty either at its own
teaching hospitals or an agreement with any other teaching hospitals;
(c) the establishment of professorial units within a period of eighteen months from the date of the coming
into force of this Order.
1A

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.08.2011
2A
3. Ensure the recruitment of adequate administrative personnel who shall be charged with the responsibility in
respect of admission of students, student affairs, academic affairs, hospital and other health facility relationships,
business and planning and who shall perform other administrative functions, as the case may be.
4. Submit within one month from the coming into force of this Order to the University Grants Commission
(hereinafter referred to as “the Commission”) in accordance with the recommendations of the institutional
review panel,-
(a) the schemes of recruitment of appropriate academic and administrative staff;
(b) the final copy of the corporate plan for five years; and
(c) the Deed of Trust relating to the establishment of the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine
(Pvt) Ltd (SAITM).
5. Submit to the Commission within  six months from the coming into force of this Order the letter of offer issued
by the Bank of Ceylon in respect of the borrowing of Rupees Six Hundred Million (Rupees 600,000,000/-) as a
construction loan for the purpose of constructing the professorial units.
6. Submit to the Commission within one month from the coming into force of this Order proof of adequate financial
resources to ensure the proper functioning and administration of its educational programme and the Financial
Plan for a period of five years with such details as may be required together with provisions for capital
expenditure Budget.
7. Ensure the establishment and provision, within six months from the coming into force of this Order, of :-
(i) lecture theatres;
(ii) auditoriums and examination halls;
(iii) tutorial rooms;
(iv) laboratories and museums - Departments of Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Microbiology,
Parasitology and Pathology should have laboratories which can accommodate one third of the batch
comprising students at any given time with microscopes for the same number or multidisciplinary
laboratories which could accommodate the total number of students in such batch at any given time with
microscopes for each student;
The Department of Anatomy, Pathology and Forensic Medicine should have separate or a collecting
museum;
(v) facilities for sports and recreation;
(vi) libraries;
(vii) information technology facilities;
(viii) research facilities;
(ix) units for medical education;
(x) other related facilities which the Commission may require from time to time.
8. This Order shall apply to students seeking admission to the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine
(Pvt) Ltd. (SAITM) on or after the date of the coming into force of this Order.
 D
ISSANAYAKE MUDIY ANSELAGE
SUMANAWEERA BANDA DISSANAYAKE,
Minister of Higher Education.
Colombo,
29th August,  2011.
09-429
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.