

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2247
2247
wxl 1"838 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'11'22
No. 1,838 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 22, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2250
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2256
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,837 of 15.11.2013 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th December, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th
November, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2248
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2249
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2250
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Calling of applications for the appointment of Inquirers
(into Sudden Deaths) under Section 108 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
APPLICATIONS are invited to fill the vacancies in the Post of
Inquirers (into sudden deaths) within the limits of Colombo
municipality.
02. Applications prepared as per the specimen form given below
should be sent under registeerd cover to reach the Secretary, Ministry
of Justice, Superior Courts Complex, Colombo 12 on or before
06.12.2013. The words "Post of Inquirer (into Sudden Deaths)"
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after the closing
date will be rejected without any notice.
03. Five (05) inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) will be appointed
and each inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) should serve per day per
week.
04. The Municipal office of the inquirers (into Sudden Deaths)
is required to be kept open from 8.30 a. m. until 6.00 p. m. and the
inquirer in charge of the office of the day should be well prepared to
hold and inquest immediately upon he is summoned to do so.
05. This is not a permanent post in the Public Service. The
appointments to the Post of Inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) is made
for a term of five years from the date of first appointment. The
term may be extended for a period of further five years subject to
medical reports of the person concerned and on the recommendations
of the appointing authority ; provided that the maximum age limit
should not be exceeded 70 years of the age of the holder. Nevertheless,
the Minister may at any time prior to the expiry of the term,
terminate the service of an inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) with the
reason being assigned for the termination.
06. The appointees should perform the duties of inquirers (into
Sudden Deaths) in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
07. This post does not carry a salary. However, a fee of Rs. 500
per inquest, travelling expenses and subsistence allowances
approved for inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) will be paid.
08. Persons who possess the following requirements are eligible
to apply :
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Be a resident within the limits of Colombo Municipality
during the last two years ;
(c) Be an Attorney-at-law practicing not less than 04 years.
(d) Should not be less than 30 years and not more than 45
years of age as at the closing date of applications.
(e) Should be physically fit and should bear a moral character.
Priority will be given to non-smokers and teetotalers.
09. Persons who are in receipt of a salary or an allowance from
the Government or from a fund of a Provincial Council or a Local
Government Institution as at the closing date of applications,
employees and members of the Board of Directors of State
Corporations or Co-operative Societies and Members of Provincial
Councils or Local Government Institutions are not eligible to apply
for this post.
10. It is not necessary to enclose any documents with the
application. However, applicants should produce at the interview
sufficient proof in support of their qualifications. The originals of
the following documents should be submitted at the interview :
(a) Certificate of Birth ;
(b) Educational Certificates ;
(c) National Identity Card ;
(d) Certificate of Grama Niladhari to prove permanent
residence ;
(e) Two recent character certificates ;
(f) Other certificates if any, in support of additional
qualifications ;
(g) In case of retired applicants, docmentary evidence to
prove the date of retirement ;
(h) Certificate of enrolment in case of an Attorney-at-
Law.
11. All applications should be filled in block letters according to
the following format. Applications submitted without indicating all
required information will be rejected without any notice.
12. When filling the specimen form of application, accurate
details on eligibility criteria should be included. The appointments
of applicants falling into any category referred to in paragraph 9
above and the appointments of applicants who have furnished
false information relating to paragraph 08 above will be cancelled, if
the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment is made.
13. If a person who is appointed as an inquirer (into Sudden
Deaths) is subsequently appointed to a post described in the
aforesaid paragraph 9, his/her appointment to the post of inquirer
(into Sudden Deaths) will lapse form the date of appointment to a
post described in paragraph 09 above.
D. L. G
UNESEKARA,
Secretary (Actg.),
Ministry of Justice.
At the Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12,
31st October, 2013.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2251
POST OF INQUIRER (INTO SUDDEN DEATHS)
District Divisional Secretary's
Division
Relevant Magistrate's Inquirers (into Sudden
Court Deaths) Division
Relevant Police Grama Niladhari
Station Div ision where the
applicant is resident
and No.
01. ( a) Name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
(underline the surname)
(b) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02. Address :––––––––––––.
03. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
05. Age as at 06.12.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
06. Date of oath if an Attorney-at-Law :––––––––––––.
07. Sex :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :––––––––––––.
09. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Present occupation :––––––––––––.
11. Previous employment :
(a) Are you an employee of State, a State Corporation/
Provincial Council Co-operative or Local Government
Institution ? :––––––––––––.
(b) If you have resigned/retired from service of the established
above, reason for resignation/retirement :––––––––––.
(c) If so, the nature of the charge and the outcome :–––––.
13. ( a) Have you ever been sued for any offence in any Court of
Law ? :––––––––––––.
(b) Has any complaint to which you were a party been ever
made to a Mediation Board for mediation :–––––––––.
If so, the result thereof :––––––––––––.
14. ( a) Do you presently hold a post of inquirer (into Sudden
Deaths) :––––––––––––.
(b) If so, the date of first appointment and file No. of the
Ministry :––––––––––––.
15. Details of other qualifications, if any, relevant to this
appointment :––––––––––––.
16. Names, addresses and designations of the two persons who
gave character certificates :
(1) .............................. (2) ............................
............................ ............................
............................ ............................
I do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me
are true and accurate.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
11–660
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in
Tamil Medium
BATTICALOA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of
Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule
hereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more
than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc.
could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional
Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the
address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd December, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
05th November, 2013.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2252
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Batticaloa Manmunai South Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
Eruvil Pattu, Kaluthavalai Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Kaluwanchikudy (General) of Manmunai South and Batticaloa.
Eruvil Porativu Pattu Division.
11–751
–––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment to the Post of Superintendent of Language Laboratory to the Department of Official Languages – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who are already in the Public Service and eligible to be recruited to t he
following post of the Department of Official Languages.
SUPERINTENDENT OF LANGUAGE LABORATORY - 1 POST
02. Selection will be made on the results of a professional examination and a structured interview conducted by the Department
of Official Languages.
03. Monthly salary scale .– Rs. 20,030 -11x365 -18x500 - Rs. 33,045. (MN-7-2006(A)).
04. This post is permanent and pensionable.
05. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are applicable in the recruitment to the post of Superintendent of Language
Laboratory.
5.1 Educational Qualifications.– Having obtained a degree with any language as a subject from a university recognized by
the University Grants Commission ; and
Having obtained a "Distinction" pass for English Language in the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination or having obtained an
ordinary pass for English Language in the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
5.2 Experience.– Should have obtained a three year experience on the use of language laboratory from an institution
recognized by the government.
5.3 Physical Qualification .– Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit enough to perform duties in the post
and to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
5.4 Others :-
(i) Should be a public officer who is entitled to MN-4, MN-5 or MN-6 salary scale and holding a permanent and
pensionable posts.
(ii) All qualifications required for the recruitment to the post should have been completed by applicant in all
respects as at the date stipulated in the notification/ Gazette calling applications.
06. Method of recruitment.– Recruitment will be made on the results of a professional examination and a structured interview :
6.1 Professional Examination :–
Subjects Maximum marks
* Operating the network system of the Language Laboratory 50
* Designing lessons in relation to language courses
50
Total 100
40% of marks should be scored for passing the examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2253
6.2 Structured Interview :-
Major fields of assessment Maximum marks
* Additional Educational Qualifications 25
* Additional Experience 35
* Professional qualifications 35
* Skill assessed at the interview
05
Total 100
Marking Scheme
For the Structured Interview :
1. Additional Educational Qualifications (i) To possess a post graduate degree in languages - 25 marks
(maximum 25 marks) (ii) To possess any other post graduate degree - 15 marks
(iii) To possess any post graduate diploma - 10 marks
(Marks are awarded only for the highest qualification)
2. Additional Experience (maximum 35 marks) (i) Experience in language laboratory, compulsory 03 year
experience and 05 marks each for a year in excess of three
years - 25 marks
(ii) Diploma level qualifications in an additional language - 10 marks
3. Professional Qualifications (maximum 35 marks) (i) To possess diploma in education - 20 marks
(ii) Any recognizable qualification in education - 10 marks
(iii) Experience in elder's educational courses - 05 marks
4. Competence shown at the interview The facts such as leadership, personality and submitting ideas
(maximum 05 marks) are taken into consideration - 05 marks.
For Professional Test :
1. To operate Computer System in Language Laboratory (i) Ability to prepare distance learning programme - 25 marks
(maximum 50 marks) (ii) To operate Computer System in Language Laboratory
- 10 marks
(iii) Ability to use computers (Ms Package) for office
work - 10 marks
(iv) Reasonable knowledge in computer accessories - 05 marks
2. To prepare lessons for language courses (i) To submit a lesson plan for a target group - 30 marks
(maximum 50 marks) (ii) To submit first lesson of the lesson plan - 20 marks
Note.– Vacancies will be filled from among the applicants who have obtained the highest total marks from both the structured
interview and the Professional Examination.
07. Applicants should be completed carefully with accurate information. If a candidate is found to be disqualified as per the
rules and regulations of the recruitment examination his/her candidature could be cancelled before, during or after the interview or in any
instance. If information furnished by applicant is found to be false in any instance, he or she is liable to be dismissed from the Public
Service.
08. Applications should be prepared in the paper of A4 size (24cm x 29cm) :
(a) Para. numbers 1 to 3.4 should be included in the first page.
(b) Para. numbers 4 onwards should be included in the other pages.
(c) In the preparation of applications, the title on the top of the application filled by Sinhala medium applicants should
be mentioned in English Language in addition to Sinhala Language and the title on the top of the application filled by
Tamil medium applicants should be mentioned in English Language in addition to Tamil Language.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2254
8.1 The heading "Recruitment to the Post of Superintendent of Language Laboratory - 2013" should be mentioned at the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
8.2 Perfected application forms should be sent by registered post to the following address on or before 17.12.2013.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages,
No. 341/7, "Bhasha Mandiraya",
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
8.3 Applications should be sent through the respective Head of the Department/Institution.
09. The Public Service Commission shall determine any matter that had not been mentioned in this notification. All applicants
should abide by general rules and regulations laid down in this Gazette notification.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
M. S. W
ICKRAMASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of National Languages and Social Integration.
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road,
Rajagiriya,
01st November, 2013.
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE POSTS OF SUPERINTENDENT OF LANGUAGE
LABORATORY – 2013
For office use
01. Name :––––––––––––.
1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
02. Address :––––––––––––.
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.3 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.2 Civil status :
Married - 1
Unmarried - 2
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 17.12.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Education Qualification :
4.1 ( a) Degree :––––––––––––.
(b) University and year in which the degree had been
obtained :––––––––––––.
(c) Subject of the degree :––––––––––––.
4.2 G. C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Subject Pass

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2255
4.3 G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Subject Pass
05. Experience :––––––––––––.
06. 6.1 Service/Post :––––––––––––.
6.2 Class :––––––––––––.
6.3 Total period of service under the government as at
22.11.2013 (as the date of publishing the notification in
the gazette) :
Years : Months :
6.4 Present Annual Salary : Rs. :––––––––––––.
6.5 Salary Code :––––––––––––.
I declare that particulars furnished in this application are correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief and I agree with any decision
taken to cancel my candidature if it is detected that I am disqualified
before, during or after the examination as per the conditions of the
recruitment examination.
I hereby declare that I have earned all the increments immediately
prior to the date of 2013 and I haven't undergone any punishment
9except warnings) imposed as a result of a disciplinary action.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who
submits this application has been employed in this office since
........................... and his/her work and conduct is always satisfactory
and I have examined all the above information using the records
maintained in this office personally and I found that they are correct
and he/she signed before me on ............. 2013.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Name  :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Official frank  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
11–762
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
2256
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 23rd Dec ember,
2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th November, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Akkaraipattu Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Pattiyadipitti Division General, District Secretariat, Ampara.
11–822
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  TRANSPORT
Department of Motor Traffic
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT EXAMINERS OF MOTOR VEHICLES CLASS II
SEGMENT 'B' IN SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTEMNT OF MOTOR TRAFFIC - 2013
THE notification published in the Part I section IIA of the Gazette No. 1,836 dated 08.11.2013 :–
The qualifications, mentioned in following should be included in the section 05.
The candidate should passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination with at least six subjects (06) including four credit passes (04) for
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Science, Mathematics and another subject.
The candidate should passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination with three subjects (03) under new syllabus including Pure Maths/
Applied Maths/Combine Maths, Physics and another subject in Science Stream (four passes (04) under old syllabus).
Closing date of the application is extended upto 20.12.2013.
S. H. H
ARISHCHANDRA,
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
Department of Motor Traffic,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
11th November, 2013.
11–887