

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2012
647
647
wxl 1"765 - 2012 cqks ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'29
No. 1,765 – FRIDAY , JUNE 29, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th July, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd June,
2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
Government Printer. (Covering up)
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... 648
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,764 of 22.06.2012 was not published.
Note.— Jayarathna Foundation (Incorporation) 27th April, 2012 Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ;
Victor Antony Educational Social Economic Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to
the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 01st June, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.06.2012
648
Posts - Vacant
SOUTHERN  PROVINCE
Southern Provincial Industrial Development Authority
(MINISTRY of Sports and Youth Affairs, Rural Industries, Rural
Development, Tourism, Economic Promotion, Social Welfare,
Probation and Child Care Services, Women Affairs, Housing and
Construction and Human Power Employment).
Recruitment of a Director General :
(Applications are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have
following qualifications for the recruitment of a Director General
on contract basis for Southern Provincial Industrial Development
Authority).
01. Education qualifications :
(a) Should have completed satisfactory service period of
05 years at lease as an officer of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service or Sri Lanka Planning Service ;
or
(b) Should possesses a degree from a recognized university
with one of subjects Natural Science/Economics/
Management (Business/Marketing/Human Resources/
Public) Commerce/Statistics ; and
(i) Should have completed a satisfactory service of
05 years in an executive post in public, semi
government or private sector and two years of
that period must be of senior executive post ;
or
(ii) Should have completed satisfactory service of 03
years in an executive post in public, semi
government or private sector with a post graduate
for one of above subjects.
(Relevant degree certificate should have been
obtained as at the closing date of application).
02. Special qualifications .- Fluency in English Language,
Computer literacy with the basic knowledge in designing computer
data base, ability to implement income generation projects and
knowledge of modern office procedures will be additional
qualification.
03. Age.- Should be more than 18 years and not more than 45
years as at the closing date of application. Those who are in public
service should be less than 55 years.
04. Salary.- Monthly salary is Rs. 30,175. In addition allowances
decided by the Board of Directors will be paid.
05. Recruitment.- Qualified applicants will be interviewed and
qualified person be recruited for above post on contract basis for a
period of one year. Upon the satisfaction of the service, after one
year, service continuation of the service will be considered by the
Board of Directors of the Authority.
06. Sending applications.- Self prepared application along with
bio data and other details should be sent under registered post to
following address within 21 days from the date of this paper
advertisement. "Recruitment for the post of Director General" has
to be mentioned on top left hand corner of the envelope in which
the application is enclosed.
Chairman,
Southern Provincial Industrial
Development Authority.
Hiltop Mandiraya,
Galle.
06-911
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.