

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2166$12 - 2020 ud¾;= ui 11 jeks nodod - 2020'03'11
No. 2166/12  -  WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  11,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as
the “Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards Changes effective for the finan-
cial periods ending on or after 15 December 2019 published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka
Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be effective for the financial periods
ending on or after 15 December 2019. Earlier application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
PRASANNA LIY ANAGE,
 Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
11
th March 2020
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
1A - PG 005001  - (06/2020)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards Changes effective for the financial periods ending on or after 15 
December 2019 
 
Description 2017 2020 
Glossary 
*Accounting 
estimate 
An approximation of a monetary amount 
in the absence of a precise means of 
measurement. This term is used for an 
amount measured at fair value where there 
is estimation uncertainty, as well as for 
other amounts that require estimation. 
Where SLAuS 540* add resses only 
accounting estimates involving 
measurement at fair value, the term “fair 
value accounting estimates” is used.  
* SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting 
Estimates, Including Fair Value 
Accounting Estimates,  and Related 
Disclosures. 
An approximation of a monetary amount in 
the absence of a precise means of 
measurement. This term is used for an 
amount measured at fair value where there is 
estimation uncertainty, as well as for other 
amounts that require estimation. Where 
SLAuS 540  (Revised)* addresses only 
accounting estimates involving measurement 
at fair value, the term “fair value accounting 
estimates” is used.  
* SLAuS 540  (Revised), Auditing 
Accounting Estimate s and Related 
Disclosures. 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 200 (SLAuS 200 - OVERALL OBJECTIVES OF THE 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR AND THE CONDUCT OF AN AUDIT IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARDS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
A42 The SLAuSs do not ordinarily refer to 
inherent risk and control risk 
separately, but rather to a combined 
assessment of the “risks of material 
misstatement.” However the auditor 
may make separate or combined 
assessments of inherent and control 
risk depending on pref erred audit 
techniques or methodologies and 
practical considerations. The assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement may be 
expressed in quantitative terms, such as in 
percentages, or in non-quantitative terms. In 
any case, the need for the auditor t o make 
appropriate risk assessments is more 
important than the different approaches by 
which they may be made. 
 
The assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement may be expressed in 
quantitative terms, such as in percentages, or 
in non -quantitative term s. In any case, the 
need for the auditor to make appropriate risk 
assessments is more important than the 
different approaches by which they may be 
made. The SLAuSs  do not ordinarily 
refer to inherent risk and control risk 
separately, but rather to a combined 
assessment of the “risks of material 
misstatement.” However, SLAuS 540 
(Revised)* requires a separate assessment of 
inherent risk and control risk to provide a 
basis for designing and performing further 
audit procedures to respond to the assessed 
risks of material misstatement, including 
significant risks, for accounting estimates at 
the assertion level in accordance with SLAuS 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   3A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
330.** In identifying and assessing  risks of 
material misstatement for significant classes 
of transactions, account balances or 
disclosures other than accounting estimates , 
the auditor may make separate or 
combined assessments of inherent and 
control risk depending on preferred audit 
techniques or methodologies and 
practical considerations.  
 
*SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting 
Estimates and Related Disclosures,  
paragraph 16 
** SLAuS 330, paragraph 7(b) 
A48 
Footnote  
SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting 
Estimates, Including Fair Value 
Accounting Estimates,  and Related 
Disclosures, and SLAuS 700 (Revised), 
Forming an Opinion and Reporting on 
Financial Statements, paragraph 12 
SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting 
Estimates and Related Disclosures , and 
SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an O pinion 
and Reporting on Financial Statements , 
paragraph 12 
A71 … 
A SLAuS dealing with specific aspects of 
the audit (for example, SLAuS 540) may 
expand on how the objectives and 
requirements of such SLAuSs as SLAuS 
315 (Revised) and SLAuS 330 are to be 
applied in relation to the subject of the 
SLAuS but does not repeat them. Thus, in 
achieving the objective stated in SLAuS 
540, the auditor has regard to the objectives 
and requirements of other relevant SLAuSs. 
 
… 
A SLAuS dealing with specific aspects of the 
audit (for example, SLAuS 540 (Revised)) may 
expand on how the objectives and requirements 
of such SLAuSs as SLAuS 315 (Revised) and 
SLAuS 330 are to be applied in relation to the 
subject of the SLAuS but does not repeat them. 
Thus, in achieving the obje ctive stated in 
SLAuS 540 (Revised), the auditor has regard to 
the objectives and requirements of other 
relevant SLAuSs. 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 210 (SLAuS 210 - AGREEING THE TERMS OF 
AUDIT ENGAGEMENTS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 220 (SLAuS  220 - QUALITY CONTROL FOR AN 
AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
* Footnote Conforming ammendments to this 
standard as identified in pages 1280 to 
1361 are effective for Audits of financial 
statements for periods ending on or after  
31 March 2018. 
 
 
[Content Deleted]  

<!-- page 4 -->

4A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 230 (SLAuS 230 - AUDIT DOCUMENTATION)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
A7 • … 
• … 
○ For example, there may be no 
single way in which the 
auditor’s professional 
skepticism is documented. But 
the audit documentation may 
nevertheless provide evidence 
of the auditor’s exercise of 
professional skepticism in 
accordance with the SLAuSs. 
Such evidence may include specific 
procedures performed to 
corroborate management’s 
responses to the auditor’s inquiries. 
 
• … 
• … 
○ For example, there may be no 
single way in which the auditor’s 
professional skepticism is 
documented. But the audit 
documentation may nevertheless 
provide evidence of the auditor’s 
exercise of professional 
skepticism in accordance with the 
SLAuSs. For example, in relation to 
accounting estimates, when the audit 
evidence obtained includes evidence 
that both corroborates and 
contradicts management’s assertions, 
documenting how the auditor 
evaluated that evidence, including 
the professional judgments made in 
forming a conclusion as to the 
sufficiency and appropriateness of 
the audit evidence obtained. 
 
A10 • … 
• … 
• The basis for the auditor’s conclusion 
on the reasonableness of areas of 
subjective judgments (for example, 
the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates).  
• … 
• … 
• The basis for the auditor’s conclusion on 
the reasonableness of areas of subjective 
judgments made by management. 
• The basis for the auditor’s evaluation of 
whether an accounting estimate and 
related disclosures are reasonable in the 
context of the applicable financial 
reporting framework, or are misstated. 
 
Appendix 
 
 SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting 
Estimates, Including Fair V alue 
Accounting Estimates,  and Related 
Disclosures – paragraph 23 
 
 SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting 
Estimates and Related Disclosures  – 
paragraph 39 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   5A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 240 (SLAuS  240 - THE AUDITOR'S 
RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO FRAUD IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or af ter 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
A47 A retrospective review is also required by 
SLAuS 540. * That review is conducted 
as a risk assessment procedure to 
obtain information regarding the 
effectiveness of management’s prior 
period estimation process, audit evidence 
about the outcome, or where 
applicable, the subsequent re -
estimation of prior period accounting 
estimates that is pertinent to making current 
period accounting estimates, and audit 
evidence of matters, such as 
estimation uncertainty, that may be 
required to be disclosed in the 
financial statements. As a practical 
matter, the auditor’s review of 
management judgments and 
assumptions for biases that could 
represent a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud in 
accordance with this SLAuS may be 
carried out in conjunction with the 
review required by SLAuS 540.  
* SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting 
Estimates, Including Fair Value 
Accounting Estimates, and Related 
Disclosures, paragraph 9 
A retrospective review is also required by 
SLAuS 540  (Revised). That review is 
conducted as a risk assessment procedure 
to obtain information regarding the 
effectiveness of management’s previous 
accounting estimates, audit evidence about 
the outcome, or where applicable, their 
subsequent re -estimation to assist in 
identifying and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the  current period, and 
audit evidence of matters, such as 
estimation uncertainty, that may be 
required to be disclosed in the financial 
statements. As a practical matter, the 
auditor’s review o f management 
judgments and assumptions for biases 
that could represent a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud in accordance 
with this SLAuS may be carried out in 
conjunction with the review required by 
SLAuS 540 (Revised). 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 250 (SLAuS 250 - CONSIDERATION OF LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
No Changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 260 (REVISED) (SLAuS 260 (REVISED) - 
COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE)  
7 In some jurisdictions, law or regulation 
may restrict the auditor’s communication 
of certain matters with those charged with 
governance. Law or regulation s may 
specifically prohibit a communication, or 
other action, that might prejudice an 
Law or regulation may restrict the auditor’s 
communication of certain matters with those 
charged with governance. For example, laws 
or regulation s may specifically prohibit a 
communication, or other action, that might 
prejudice an investigation by an appropriate 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
investigation by an appropriate authori ty 
into an actual, or suspected, illegal act , 
including alerting the entity, for example, 
when the auditor is required to report 
identified or suspected non -compliance 
with laws and regulations to an 
appropriate authority pursuant to anti -
money laundering legislation.. In these 
circumstances, the issues considered by 
the auditor  may be complex  and the 
auditor may consider it appropriate to 
obtain legal advice. 
authority into an actual, or suspected, illegal 
act. In some circumstances, potential 
conflicts between the auditor’s obligations of 
confidentiality and obligations to 
communicate may be complex. In such cases, 
the auditor may consider obtaining legal 
advice. 
 
A19 Financial reporting frameworks ordinarily 
allow for the entity to make accounting 
estimates, and judgments about 
accounting policies and financial 
statement disclosures, for example, in 
relation to the use of key assumptions in 
the development of accountin g estimates  
for which there is significant measurement 
uncertainty. In addition, law, regulation or 
financial reporting frameworks may 
require disclosure of a summary of 
significant accounting policies or make 
reference to “critical accounting 
estimates” or “critical accounting policies 
and practices” to identify and provide 
additional information to users about the 
most difficult, subjective or complex 
judgments made by management in 
preparing the financial statements.  
 
Financial reporting frameworks ordi narily 
allow for the entity to make accounting 
estimates, and judgments about accounting 
policies and financial statement disclosures, 
for example, in relation to the use of 
assumptions in the development of 
accounting estimates. In addition, law, 
regulation or financial reporting frameworks 
may require disclosure of a summary of 
significant accounting policies or make 
reference to “critical accounting estimates” 
or “critical accounting policies and 
practices” to identify and provide additional 
information to users about the most difficult, 
subjective or complex judgments made by 
management in preparing the financial 
statements.  
 
A20 As a result, the auditor’s views on the 
subjective aspects of the financial 
statements may be particularly relevant to 
those charged with governance in 
discharging their responsibilities for 
oversight of the financial reporting 
process. For example, in relation to the 
matters described in paragraph A19, those 
charged with governance may be 
interested in the auditor’s evaluation of the 
adequacy of disclosures of the estimation 
uncertainty relating to accounting 
estimates that give rise to significant risks. 
As a result, the auditor’s views on the 
subjective aspects of the financial statements 
may be particularly relevant to those charged 
with governance in discharging their 
responsibilities for oversight of the financial 
reporting process. For example, in relation to 
the matters described in paragraph A19, 
those charged with governan ce may be 
interested in the auditor’s views on the 
degree to which complexity, subjectivity or 
other inherent risk factors affect the selection 
or application of the methods, assumptions 
and data used in making a significant 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   7A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
Open and constructive communication 
about significant qualitative aspects of the 
entity’s accounting practices also may 
include comment on the acceptability of 
significant accounting practices and the 
quality of the disclosures.  Appendix 2 
identifies matters that may be included in 
this communication. 
 
accounting estimate, as well as  the auditor’s 
evaluation of whether management’s point 
estimate and related disclosures in the 
financial statements are reasonable in the 
context of the applicable financial reporting 
framework. Open and constructive 
communication about significant qualit ative 
aspects of the entity’s accounting practices 
also may include comment on the 
acceptability of significant accounting 
practices and on the quality of the 
disclosures. When applicable, this may 
include whether a significant accounting 
practice of the e ntity relating to accounting 
estimates is considered by the auditor not to 
be most appropriate to the particular 
circumstances of the entity, for example, 
when an alternative acceptable method for 
making an accounting estimate would, in the 
auditor’s judgm ent, be more appropriate.  
Appendix 2 identifies matters that may be 
included in this communication. 
 
Appendix 1  [No Correspondence]  SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing 
Accounting Estimates and Related 
Disclosures – paragraph 38 
 
Appendix 1  SLAuS 610 (Revised), Using the Work 
of Internal Auditors – paragraph 18;   
 
[Content Deleted]  
Appendix 2 
Heading 
Accounting Estimates 
 For items for which estimates are  
significant, issues discussed in SLAuS 
540,* including, for example: 
○ How management identifies those 
transactions, events and conditions 
that may give rise to the need for  
accounting estimates to be 
recognized or disclosed in the 
financial statements. 
○ Changes in circumstances that may 
give rise to new, or the need to 
revise existing, accounting 
estimates.  
○ Whether management’s decision to 
recognize, or to not recognize, the 
accounting estimates in the 
financial statements is in 
Accounting Estimates  and Related 
Disclosures 
Appendix 2 of SLAuS 540 (Revised) 
includes matters that the auditor may 
consider communicating with respect to 
significant qualitative aspects of the entity’s  
accounting practices related to accounting 
estimates and related disclosures.  
 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
accordance with the appli cable 
financial reporting framework. 
○ Whether there has been or 
ought to have been a change 
from the prior period in the 
methods for making the  
accounting estimates and , if 
so, why, as well as the 
outcome of accounting 
estimates in prior periods. 
○ Management’s process for making 
accounting estimates (e.g., when 
management has used a model), 
including whether the selected 
measurement basis for the 
accounting estimate is in 
accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework.  
○ Whether the significant 
assumptions used by management 
in developing the accounting 
estimate are reasonable. 
○ Where relevant to the 
reasonableness of the significant 
assumptions used by management 
or the appropriate application of the 
applicable financial reporting 
framework, management’s intent to 
carry out specific courses of action 
and its ability to do so. 
○ Risks of material misstatement. 
○ Indicators of possible management 
bias. 
○ How management has considered 
alternative assumptions or 
outcomes and why it has rejected 
them, or how management has 
otherwise addressed estimation 
uncertainty in making the 
accounting estimate. 
○ The adequacy of disclosure of 
estimation uncertainty in the 
financial statements. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   9A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
* SLAuS 540, Auditing 
Accounting Estimates, Including Fair 
Value Accounting Estim ates, and Related 
Disclosures 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 265 (SLAuS 265 - COMMUNICATING 
DEFICIENCIES IN INTERNAL CONTROL TO THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE 
AND MANAGEMENT)  
No Changes   
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 300 (SLAuS  300 - PLANNING AN AUDIT OF 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
* Footnote Conforming ammendments to this 
standard as identified from page 1280 to 
1361 will be effective for the period 
ending on or after 31 March 2018. 
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 315  (REVISED) (SLAuS 315 (REVISED) - 
IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT 
THROUGH UNDERSTANDING THE ENTITY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 320 (SLAus 320 - MATERIALITY IN PLANNI NG 
AND PERFORMING AN AUDIT)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDAR D 330 (SLAuS 330 - THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSES TO 
ASSESSED RISKS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 402 (SLAuS 402 - AUDIT CONSIDERATIONS 
RELATING TO AN ENTITY USING A SERVICE ORGANIZATION)  
No Changes   
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 450 (SLAuS 450 - EVALUATION OF 
MISSTATEMENTS IDENTIFIED DURING THE AUDIT)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
[Content Deleted]  

<!-- page 10 -->

10A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
31 March 2018   
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 500 (SLAuS 500 - AUDIT EVIDENCE)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
5 (cA) [No Correspondence] External information source – An external 
individual or organization that provides 
information that has been used by the entity 
in preparing the financial statements, or that 
has been obtained by the auditor as audit 
evidence, when such information is suitable 
for use by a broad range of users. When 
information has been provided by an 
individual or organization acting in the 
capacity of a management’s expert, service 
organization*, or auditor’s expert** the 
individual or organization is not considered 
an external information source with  respect 
to that particular information. (Ref: Para. 
A1a-A1c) 
*  SLAuS 402, Audit Considerations 
Relating to an Entity Using a Service 
Organization, paragraph 8. 
** SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an 
Auditor’ s Expert, paragraph 6 
7 When designing and perform ing audit 
procedures, the auditor shall consider the 
relevance and reliability of the 
information to be used as audit evidence . 
(Ref: Para. A26–A33) 
 
When designing and performing audit 
procedures, the auditor shall consider the 
relevance and reliability of the information to 
be used as audit evidence , including 
information obtained from an external 
information source. (Ref: Para. A26-A33f) 
 
A1a-A1d [No Correspondence] External Information Source (Ref: Para 
5(cA)) 
A1a. External information sources may 
include pricing services, governmental 
organizations, central banks or 
recognized stock exchanges. Examples 
of information that may be obtained 
from external information sources 
include: 
 Prices and pricing related data; 
 Macro-economic data, such as 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   11A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
historical and forecast 
unemployment rates and 
economic growth rates, or census 
data; 
 Credit history data; 
 Industry specific data, such as an 
index of reclamation costs for 
certain extractive industries, or 
viewership information or ratings 
used to determine advertising 
revenue in the entertainment 
industry; and 
 Mortality tables used to 
determine liabilities in the life 
insurance and pension sectors. 
A1b. A particular set of information is more 
likely to be suitable for use by a br oad 
range of users and less likely to be 
subject to influence by any particular 
user if the external individual or 
organization provides it to the public 
for free, or makes it available to a wide 
range of users in return for payment of 
a fee. Judgment may be required in 
determining whether the information is 
suitable for use by a broad range of 
users, taking into account the ability of 
the entity to influence the external 
information source.  
A1c.  An external individual or organization 
cannot, in respect of any particular set 
of information, be both an external 
information source and a 
management’s expert, or service 
organization or auditor’s expert.  
A1d.  However, an external individual or 
organization may, for example, be 
acting as a management’s expert when 
providing a particular set of 
information, but may be acting as an 
external information source when 
providing a different set of information. 
In some circumstances, professional 
judgment may b e needed to determine 
whether an external individual or 
organization is acting as an external 
information source or as a 
management’s expert with respect to a 
particular set of information. In other 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
circumstances, the distinction may be 
clear. For example: 
 An external individual or 
organization may be providing 
information about real estate 
prices that is suitable for use by a 
broad range of users, for example, 
information made generally 
available pertaining to a 
geographical region, and be 
determined to be  an external 
information source with respect to 
that set of information. The same 
external organization may also be 
acting as a management’s or 
auditor’s expert in providing 
commissioned valuations, with 
respect to the entity’s real estate 
portfolio specif ically tailored for 
the entity’s facts and 
circumstances. 
 Some actuarial organizations 
publish mortality tables for general 
use which, when used by an entity, 
would generally be considered to 
be information from an external 
information source. The same 
actuarial organization may also be 
a management’s expert with 
respect to different information 
tailored to the specific 
circumstances of the entity to help 
management determine the 
pension liability for several of the 
entity’s pension plans.  
 An external indi vidual or 
organization may possess 
expertise in the application of 
models to estimate the fair value of 
securities for which there is no 
observable market. If the external 
individual or organization applies 
that expertise in making an 
estimate specifically for the entity 
and that work is used by 
management in preparing its 
financial statements, the external 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   13A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
individual or organization is likely 
to be a management’s expert with 
respect to that information. If, on 
the other hand, that external 
individual or or ganization merely 
provides, to the public, prices or 
pricing-related data regarding 
private transactions, and the entity 
uses that information in its own 
estimation methods, the external 
individual or organization is likely 
to be an external information 
source with respect to such 
information. 
 An external individual or 
organization may publish 
information, suitable for a broad 
range of users, about risks or 
conditions in an industry. If used 
by an entity in preparing its risk 
disclosures (for example in 
compliance with SLFRS 7*), such 
information would ordinarily be 
considered to be information from 
an external information source. 
However, if the same type of 
information has been specifically 
commissioned by the entity to use 
its expertise to develop 
information about those risks, 
tailored to the entity’s 
circumstances, the external 
individual or organization is likely 
to be acting as a management’s 
expert. 
 An external individual or 
organization may apply its 
expertise in providing information 
about current a nd future market 
trends, which it makes available to, 
and is suitable for use by, a broad 
range of users. If used by the entity 
to help make decisions about 
assumptions to be used in making 
accounting estimates, such 
information is likely to be 
considered to be information from 
an external information source. If 
the same type of information has 
been commissioned by the entity 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
to address current and future trends 
relevant to the entity’s specific 
facts and circumstances, the 
external individual or organization 
is likely to be acting as a 
management’s expert.  
* Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – SLFRS 
7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures 
A1 Audit evidence is necessary to support 
the auditor’s opinion and report. It is 
cumulative in nature and is primarily 
obtained from audit procedures 
performed during the course of the 
audit. It may, however, also include 
information obtained from other sources 
such as previous audits (provided the 
auditor has determined whether changes 
have occurred since the previous audit 
that may affect its relevance to the 
current audit *) or a firm’s quality 
control procedures for client acceptance 
and continuance. In addition to other 
sources inside and outside the entity , the 
entity’s accounting records are an 
important source of audit evidence. Also, 
information that may be used as audit 
evidence may have been prepared using 
the work of a management’s expert. 
Audit evidence comprises both 
information that supports and 
corroborates management’s assertions, 
and any information that con tradicts 
such assertions. In addition, in some 
cases the absence of information (for 
example, management’s refusal to 
provide a requested representation) is 
used by the auditor, and therefore, also 
constitutes audit evidence.  
*SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 9 
Audit evidence is necessary to support the 
auditor’s opinion and report. It is 
cumulative in nature and is primarily 
obtained from audit procedures performed 
during the course of the audit. It may, 
however, also include information 
obtained fro m other sources such as 
previous audits (provided the auditor has 
determined whether changes have 
occurred since the previous audit that may 
affect its relevance to the current audit*) or 
a firm’s quality control procedures for 
client acceptance and continuance. In, the 
entity’s accounting records and other 
sources internal to the entity are an important 
sources of audit evidence. Information that 
may be used as audit evidence may have 
been prepared using the work of a 
management’s expert. or be obtained from an 
external information source. Audit evidence 
comprises both information that supports 
and corroborates management’s 
assertions, and any information that 
contradicts such assertions. In addition, in 
some cases the absence of information (for 
example, management’s refusal to provide 
a requested representation) is used by the 
auditor, and therefore, also constitutes 
audit evidence. 
* SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 9 
A9 Information from sources independent 
of the entity that the auditor may use as 
audit evidence may include 
confirmations from third parties , 
analysts’ reports, and comparable data 
Information from sources independent of 
the entity that the auditor may use as audit 
evidence may include confirmations from 
third parties  and information from an 
external information source, including  

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   15A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
about competitors (benchmarking 
data).  
 
analysts’ reports, and comparable data 
about competitors (benchmarking data).  
 
A31 The reliability of information to be used as 
audit evidence, and therefore of the audit 
evidence itself, is influenced by its source 
and its nature, and the circumstances under 
which it is obtained, including the controls 
over its preparation and maintenance where 
relevant. Therefore, generalizations about 
the reliability of various kinds of audit 
evidence are subject to important 
exceptions. Even when information to be 
used as audit evidence is obtained from 
sources external to the entity, circumstances 
may exist that could affect its reliability. For 
example, information obtained from an 
independent external source may not be 
reliable if the source is not knowledgeable, 
or a management’s expert may lack 
objectivity. While recognizing that 
exceptions may ex ist, the following 
generalizations about the reliability of audit 
evidence may be useful: 
The reliability of information to be used as 
audit evidence, and therefore of the audit 
evidence itself, is influenced by its source and 
its nature, and the circumstances under which it 
is obtained, including the controls over its 
preparation and maintenance where relevant. 
Therefore, generalizations about the reliability 
of various kinds of audit evidence are subject to 
important exceptions. Even when information 
to be used as audit evidence is obtained from 
sources external to the entity, circumstances 
may exist that could affect its reliability. For 
example, information obtained from a source 
independent of the entity may not be reliable if 
the source is not knowledgeable, or a 
management’s expert may lack objectivity. 
While recognizing that exceptions may exist, 
the following generalizations about the 
reliability of audit evidence may be useful: 
A33a - A33f [No Correspondence] External Information Sources 
A33a. The auditor is required by paragraph 7 
to consider the relevance and reliability 
of information obtained from an 
external information source that is to be 
used as audit evidence, regardless of 
whether that information has been used 
by the entity in preparing the financial 
statements or obtained by the auditor. 
For information obtained from an 
external information source, that 
consideration may, in certain cases, 
include audit evidence about the 
external informat ion source or the 
preparation of the information by the 
external information source, obtained 
through designing and performing 
further audit procedures in accordance 
with SLAuS 330 or, where applicable, 
SLAuS 540 (Revised).* 
* SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing  
Accounting Estimates and Disclosures 
A33b. Obtaining an understanding of why 
management or, when applicable, a 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
management’s expert uses an external 
information source, and how the 
relevance and reliability of the 
information was considered (including 
its accuracy and completeness), may 
help to inform the auditor's 
consideration of the relevance and 
reliability of that information.  
A33c. The following factors may be 
important when considering the 
relevance and reliability of information 
obtained from an external information 
source, including its accuracy and 
completeness, taking into account that 
some of these facto rs may only be 
relevant when the information has been 
used by management in preparing the 
financial statements or has been 
obtained by the auditor: 
 The nature and authority of the 
external information source. For 
example, a central bank or 
government statistics office with a 
legislative mandate to provide 
industry information to the public 
is likely to be an authority for 
certain types of information;  
 The ability to influence the 
information obtained, through 
relationships between the entity 
and the information source; 
 The competence and reputation of 
the external information source 
with respect to the information, 
including whether, in the auditor’s 
professional judgment, the 
information is routinely provided 
by a source with a track record of 
providing reliable information; 
 Past experience of the auditor with 
the reliability of the information 
provided by the external 
information source; 
 Evidence of general market 
acceptance by users of the 
relevance and/or reliability of 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   17A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
information from an external 
information source for a similar 
purpose to that for which the 
information has been used by 
management or the auditor; 
 Whether the entity has in place 
controls to address the relevance 
and reliability of the information 
obtained and used;  
 Whether the external information 
source accumulates overall market 
information or engages directly in 
“setting” market transactions; 
 Whether the information is 
suitable for use in the manner in 
which it is being used and, if 
applicable, was developed taking 
into account the ap plicable 
financial reporting framework;  
 Alternative information that may 
contradict the information used; 
 The nature and extent of 
disclaimers or other restrictive 
language relating to the 
information obtained;  
 Information about the methods 
used in prepa ring the information, 
how the methods are being applied 
including, where applicable, how 
models have been used in such 
application, and the controls over 
the methods; and 
 When available, information 
relevant to considering the 
appropriateness of assumption s 
and other data applied by the 
external information sources in 
developing the information 
obtained. 
A33d. The nature and extent of the 
auditor’s consideration takes into 
account the assessed risks of material 
misstatement at the assertion level to 
which t he use of the external 
information is relevant, the degree to 
which the use of that information is 
relevant to the reasons for the assessed 
risks of material misstatement and the 
possibility that the information from 
the external information source may 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
not be reliable (for example, whether it 
is from a credible source). Based on the 
auditor’s consideration of the matters 
described in paragraph A34a, the 
auditor may determine that further 
understanding of the entity and its 
environment, including its interna l 
control, is needed, in accordance with 
SLAuS 315, or that further audit 
procedures, in accordance with SLAuS 
330*, and SLAuS 540 (Revised)** 
when applicable, are appropriate in the 
circumstances, to respond to the 
assessed risks of material misstatement 
related to the use of information from 
an external information source.  Such 
procedures may include: 
 Performing a comparison of 
information obtained from the 
external information source with 
information obtained from an 
alternative independent 
information source. 
 When relevant to considering 
management’s use of an external 
information source, obtaining an 
understanding of controls 
management has in place to 
consider the reliability of the 
information from external 
information sources, and 
potentially testing  the operating 
effectiveness of such controls. 
 Performing procedures to obtain 
information from the external 
information source to understand 
its processes, techniques, and 
assumptions, for the purposes of 
identifying, understanding and, 
when relevant, testing the 
operating effectiveness of its 
controls. 
*   SLAuS 330, paragraph 6 
** SLAuS 540 (Revised), paragraph 30 
A33e.  In some situations, there may be 
only one provider of certain 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   19A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
information, for example, information 
from a central bank or governmen t, 
such as an inflation rate, or a single 
recognized industry body. In such 
cases, the auditor’s determination of 
the nature and extent of audit 
procedures that may be appropriate in 
the circumstances is influenced by the 
nature and credibility of the sour ce of 
the information, the assessed risks of 
material misstatement to which that 
external information is relevant, and 
the degree to which the use of that 
information is relevant to the reasons 
for the assessed risk of material 
misstatement. For example, w hen the 
information is from a credible 
authoritative source, the extent of the 
auditor’s further audit procedures may 
be less extensive, such as corroborating 
the information to the source’s website 
or published information. In other 
cases, if a source is not assessed as 
credible, the auditor may determine 
that more extensive procedures are 
appropriate and, in the absence of any 
alternative independent information 
source against which to compare, may 
consider whether performing 
procedures to obtain informat ion from 
the external information source, when 
practical, is appropriate in order to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence. 
A33f.  When the auditor does not have a 
sufficient basis with which to consider 
the relevance and reliability of 
information from an external 
information source, the auditor may 
have a limitation on scope if sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence cannot be 
obtained through alternative 
procedures. Any imposed limitation on 
scope is evaluated in accordance with 
the requirements of SLAuS 705 
(Revised).* 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
* SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the 
Opinion in the Independent Auditor’ s Report, 
paragraph 13 
A35 When information to be used as audit 
evidence has been prepared using the 
work of a management’s expert, the 
requirement in paragraph 8 of this SLAuS 
applies. For example, an individual or 
organization may possess expertise in the 
application of models to estimate the fair 
value of securities for which there is no 
observable market. If the individual or 
organization applies that expertise in 
making an estimate which the entity uses 
in preparing its financial statements, the 
individual or organization is a 
management’s expert and paragraph 8 
applies. If, on the other hand, that 
individual or organization merely 
provides price data regarding private 
transactions not otherwise available to the 
entity which the entity uses in its own 
estimation methods, such inf ormation, if 
used as audit evidence, is subject to 
paragraph 7 of this SLAuS , but is not the 
use of a management’s expert by the 
entity. 
 
When information to be used as audit 
evidence has been prepared using the work of 
a management’s expert, the requirement in 
paragraph 8 of this SLAuS applies. For 
example, an individual or organization may 
possess expertise in the application of models 
to estimate the fair value of securities for 
which there is no observable market. If the 
individual or organization applies that 
expertise in making an estimate which the 
entity uses in preparing its financial 
statements, the individual or organization is 
a m anagement’s expert and paragraph 8 
applies. If, on the other hand, that individual 
or organization merely provides price data 
regarding private transactions not otherwise 
available to the entity which the entity uses 
in its own estimation methods, such 
information, if used as audit evidence, is 
subject to paragraph 7 of this SLAuS  being 
information from an external information 
source and  not the use of a management’s 
expert by the entity. 
 
A44 
Footnote 
1SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an 
Auditor’s Expert, paragraph 7 
1SLAuS 620, paragraph 7 
A48 Considerations when evaluating the 
appropriateness of the management’s 
expert’s work as audit evidence for the 
relevant assertion may include:  
 The relevance and reasonableness of that 
expert’s findings or conclusions, their 
consistency with other audit evidence, 
and whether they have been 
appropriately reflected in the financial 
statements; 
 If that expert’s work involves use of 
significant assumptions and methods, 
the relevance and reasonableness of 
those assumptions and methods; and  
Considerations when evaluating the 
appropriateness of the management’s expert’s 
work as audit evidenc e for the relevant 
assertion may include:  
 The relevance and reasonableness of that 
expert’s findings or conclusions, their 
consistency with other audit evidence, and 
whether they have been appropriately 
reflected in the financial statements; 
 If that expert’s work involves use of 
significant assumptions and methods, the 
relevance and reasonableness of those 
assumptions and methods;   
 If that expert’s work involves significant 
use of source data, the relevance, 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   21A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
 If that expert’s work involves significant 
use of source data, the relevance, 
completeness, and accuracy of that 
source data. 
completeness, and accuracy of that source 
data; and  
 If that expert’s work involves the use of 
information from an external information 
source, the relevance and reliability of that 
information. 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 501 (SLAuS  501 - AUDIT EVIDENCE —SPECIFIC 
CONSIDERATIONS FOR SELECTED ITEMS)  
A19 Audit evidence obtained for purposes of 
identifying litigation and claims that may 
give rise to a risk of material misstatement 
also may provide audit evidence regarding 
other relevant considerations, such as 
valuation or measurement, regarding 
litigation and claims. SLAuS 540* 
establishes requirements and provides 
guidance relevant to the auditor’s 
consideration of litigation and claims 
requiring accounting estimates or related 
disclosures in the financial statements. 
* SLAuS 540 , Auditing 
Accounting Estimates, Including Fair 
Value Accounting Estimates, and Related 
Disclosures 
Audit evidence obtained for purposes of 
identifying litigation and claims that may give 
rise to a risk of material misstatement also 
may provide audit evidence regarding other 
relevant considerations, such as valuation or 
measurement, regarding litigation and claims. 
SLAuS 540  (Revised)* establishes 
requirements and provides guidance relevant 
to the auditor’s consideration of litigation and 
claims requiring accounting estimates or 
related disclosures in the financial statements. 
* SLAuS 540  (Revised), Auditing 
Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value 
Accounting Estimates, and Related 
Disclosures 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 505 (SLAuS 505 - EXTERNAL CONFIRMATIONS)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 510 (SLAuS  510 - INITIAL AUDIT 
ENGAGEMENTS - OPENING BALANCES)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
Appendix  … 
 In this particular jurisdiction, law and 
regulation prohibit the auditor from 
giving an opinion which is qualified 
regarding the financial performance 
and cash flows and unmodified 
regarding  
 … 
 In this particular jurisdiction, law and 
regulation prohibit the auditor from 
giving an opinion which is qualified 
regarding the financial performance and 
cash flows and unmodified regarding 
financial position. 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 520 (SLAuS  520 - ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 530 (SLAuS 530 - AUDIT SAMPLING)  
No changes 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 540 (REVISED) (SLAuS 540 (REVISED) AUDITING 
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND RELATED DISCLOSURES)  
The full SLAuS is separately included at the end of the document 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 550 (SLAuS 550 - RELATED PARTIES)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 560 (SLAuS 560 - SUBSEQUENT EVENTS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 570 (REVISED) (SLAuS 570 (REVISED) - GOING 
CONCERN)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 580 (SLAuS 580 - WRITTEN REPRESENTATIONS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
Appendix 1  … 
 SLAuS 540, Auditing 
Accounting Estimates, Including Fair 
Value Accounting Estimates, and 
Related Disclosures – paragraph 22 
 … 
 SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing 
Accounting Estimates and Related 
Disclosures – paragraph 37 
 
Appendix 2 The following illustrative letter includes 
written representations that are required 
by this and other SLAuSs. It is assumed in 
this illustration that the applicable 
financial reporting framework is Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards; the requirement of 
SLAuS 570* to obtain a written 
representation is not relevant; and that 
there are no exceptions to the requested 
written representations. If there were 
exceptions, the representations would 
need to be modified to reflect the 
exceptions.  
… 
 Significant assumptions used by us 
in making accounting estimates, 
The following illustrative letter includes 
written representations that are required by 
this and other SLAuSs.  It is assumed in this 
illustration that the applicable financial 
reporting framework is Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards; the requirement of 
SLAuS 570  (Revised)* to obtain a written 
representation is not relevant; and that there 
are no exceptions to the req uested written 
representations. If there were exceptions, the 
representations would need to be modified to 
reflect the exceptions.  
… 
 The methods, the data, and the significant 
assumptions used in making 
accounting estimates and their related 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   23A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
including those measured at fair 
value,reasonable. (SLAuS 540)  
* SLAuS 570, Going Concern 
disclosures are appropriate to achieve 
recognition, measurement or disclosure 
that is reasonable in the context of the 
applicable financial reporting framework. 
(SLAuS 540 (Revised)) 
* SLAuS 570, Going Concern 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 600 (SLAuS  600 - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS —
AUDITS OF GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (INCLUDING THE WORK OF 
COMPONENT AUDITORS)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 610 (REVISED 2013) (SLAuS 610 (REVISED 2013) -  
USING THE WORK OF INTERNAL AUDITORS)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 620 (SLAuS 620 - USING THE WORK OF AN 
AUDITOR’S EXPERT)  
A36 SLAuS 540* discusses the assumptions 
and methods used by management in 
making accounting estimates, including 
the use in some cases of highly 
specialized, entity -developed models. 
Although that discussion is written in the 
context of the auditor obtaining suffi cient 
appropriate audit evidence regarding 
management’s assumptions and methods, 
it may also assist the auditor when 
evaluating an auditor’s expert’s 
assumptions and methods 
*  SLAuS 540, Auditing 
Accounting Estimates , Including Fair 
Value Accounting Estim ates, and Related 
Disclosures, paragraphs 8, 13 and 15 
SLAuS 540  (Revised)* discusses the 
assumptions and methods used by 
management in making accounting 
estimates, including the use in some cases of 
highly specialized, entity-developed models. 
Although th at discussion is written in the 
context of the auditor obtaining sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence regarding 
management’s assumptions and methods, it 
may also assist the auditor when evaluating 
an auditor’s expert’s assumptions and 
methods 
*   SLAuS 54 0 (Revised), Auditing 
Accounting Estimates and Related 
Disclosures, paragraphs 13, 18 and 20 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 700 (REVISED) (SLAuS 700 (REVISED) - FORMING 
AN OPINION AND REPORTING ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
13 (c) (a) The accounting estimates made by 
management are reasonable;  
 
(a) The accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management are 
reasonable;  
A3 SLAuS 540 addresses possible 
management bias in making accounting 
estimates.* Indicators of possible 
management bias do not constitute 
misstatements for purposes of drawing 
conclusions on the reasonableness of 
individual accounting estimates. They 
may, however, affect the auditor’s 
evaluation of whether the financial 
statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement. 
SLAuS 540  (Revised) addresses possible 
management bias in making accounting 
estimates.* Indicators of possible  
management bias do not constitute 
misstatements for purposes of drawing 
conclusions on the reasonableness of 
individual accounting estimates. They may, 
however, affect the auditor’s evaluation of 
whether the financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement. 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Description 2017 2020 
* SLAuS 540 , Auditing 
Accounting Estimates , Including Fair 
Value Accounting Estimates, and Related 
Disclosures, paragraph 21 
* SLAuS 540  (Revised), Auditing 
Accounting Estimates and Related 
Disclosures, paragraph 32 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 701 (SLAuS 701 - COMMUNICATING KEY AUDIT 
MATTERS IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT)  
4(b) Significant auditor judgments relating to 
areas in the financial statements that 
involved significant management 
judgment, including accounting estimates 
that have been identified as having  high 
estimation uncertainty. (Ref: Para. A23 –
A24) 
 
Significant aud itor judgments relating to 
areas in the financial statements that involved 
significant management judgment, including 
accounting estimates that are subject to a  
high degree of estimation uncertainty. (Ref: 
Para. A23–A24) 
 
A23 & A24 
Heading 
Significant Auditor Judgments Relating to 
Areas in the Financial Statements that 
Involved Significant Management 
Judgment, Including Accounting 
Estimates that Have Been Identified as 
Having High Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: 
Para. 9(b)) 
 
Significant Auditor Judgments Relating to 
Areas in the Financial Statements that 
Involved Significant Management Judgment, 
Including Accounting Estimates that are 
Subject to a  High Degree of Estimation 
Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 9(b)) 
 
A24 However, users of the financial statements 
have highlighted their interest in 
accounting estimates that have been 
identified as having  high estimation 
uncertainty in accordance with  SLAuS 
540* that may have not been determined 
to be significant risks. Among other 
things, su ch estimates are highly 
dependent on management judgment and 
are often the most complex areas of the 
financial statements, and may require the 
involvement of both a management’s 
expert and an auditor’s expert. Users have 
also highlighted that accounting po licies 
that have a significant effect on the 
financial statements (and significant 
changes to those policies) are relevant to 
their understanding of the financial 
statements, especially in circumstances 
where an entity’s practices are not 
consistent with others in its industry. 
* See paragraphs 10–11 of SLAuS 
540,  Auditing Accounting Estimates , 
However, users of the financial statements 
have highlighted their interest in accounting 
estimates that are subject to a high degree of 
estimation uncertainty (see SLAuS 540  
(Revised)*) that may have not been 
determined to be significant risks. Among 
other things, such estimates are highly 
dependent on management judgment and are 
often the most complex areas of the financial 
statements, and may require the involvement 
of both a management’s expert and an 
auditor’s expert. Users have also highlighted 
that ac counting policies that have a 
significant effect on the financial statements 
(and significant changes to those policies) are 
relevant to their understanding of the 
financial statements, especially in 
circumstances where an entity’s practices are 
not consistent with others in its industry. 
* See paragraphs 16–17 of SLAuS 540  
(Revised), Auditing Accounting Estimates  
and Related Disclosures. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   25A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Description 2017 2020 
Including Fair Value Accounting 
Estimates, and Related Disclosures. 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 705 (REVISED) (SLAuS 705 (REVISED) -  
MODIFICATIONS TO THE OPINION IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 706 (REVISED) (SLAuS 706 (REVISED) - EMPHASIS 
OF MATTER PARAGRAPHS AND OTHER MATTER PARAGRAPHS IN THE 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 710 (SLAuS  710 - COMPARATIVE INFORMATION  
CORRESPONDING FIGURES AND COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
* Footnote Conforming amendments to this Standard 
as identified  in page 1280 to 1361 are 
effective for Audits of financial 
Statements for periods ending on or after 
31 March 2018   
[Content Deleted]  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 720 (REVISED) (SLAuS  720 - THE AUDITOR’S 
RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO OTHER INFORMATION)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 800 (REVISED) (SLAuS 800 (REVISED) - SPECIAL 
CONSIDERATIONS —AUDITS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL PURPOSE FRAMEWORKS)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 805 (REVISED) – (SLAuS 805 (REVISED) - PECIAL 
CONSIDERATIONS —AUDITS OF SINGLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SPECIFIC 
ELEMENTS, ACCOUNTS OR ITEMS OF A FINANCIAL STATEMENT)  
No changes 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 810 (RE VISED) (SLAuS 810 (REVISED) - 
ENGAGEMENTS TO REPORT ON SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS)  
No changes 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 540 (REVISED) 
AUDITING ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND RELATED DISCLOSURES 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods  
beginning on or after December 15, 2019) 
CONTENTS 
Paragraph 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS ...................................................................................................  1 
Nature of Accounting Estimates ..................................................................................  2–3 
Key Concepts of This SLAuS .....................................................................................  4–9 
Effective Date ..............................................................................................................  10 
Objective.....................................................................................................................  11 
Definitions ..................................................................................................................  12 
Requirements 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ...................................................  13–15 
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement ...................................  16–17 
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement ........................................  18–30 
Disclosures Related to Accounting Estimates .............................................................  31 
Indicators of Possible Management Bias .....................................................................  32 
Overall Evaluation Based on Audit Procedures Performed .........................................  33–36 
Written Representations ..............................................................................................  37 
Communication with Those Charged With Governance, Management, or  
Other Relevant Parties ..........................................................................................  38 
Documentation ............................................................................................................  39 
Application and Other Explanatory Material 
Nature of Accounting Estimates ..................................................................................  A1–A7 
Key Concepts of This SLAuS .....................................................................................  A8–A13 
Definitions ...................................................................................................................  A14–A18 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ...................................................  A19–A63 
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement ...................................  A64–A80 
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement  .......................................  A81–A132 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   27A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Indicators of Possible Management Bias .....................................................................  A133–A136 
Overall Evaluation Based on Audit Procedures Performed..................................  A137–A144 
Written Representations ..............................................................................................  A145 
Communication with Those Charged With Governance, Management     ..................       
or Other Relevant Partis ..............................................................................................  A146–A148 
Documentation ............................................................................................................  A149–A152 
Appendix 1: Inherent Risk Factors 
Appendix 2: Communications with Those Charged with Governance 
 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related 
Disclosures, should be read in conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor 
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS 
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to accounting 
estimates and related disclosures in an audit of financial statements. Specifically, it includes requirements 
and guidance that refer to, or expand on, how SLAuS 315 (Revised),1 SLAuS 330,2 SLAuS 450,3 SLAuS 
5004 and other relevant SLAuSs are to be applied in relation to accounting estimates and related 
disclosures. It also includes requirements and guidance on the evaluation of misstatements of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures, and indicators of possible management bias.  
Nature of Accounting Estimates 
2. Accounting estimates vary widely in nature and are required to be made b y management when the 
monetary amounts cannot be directly observed. The measurement of these monetary amounts is subject 
to estimation uncertainty, which reflects inherent limitations in knowledge or data. These limitations give 
rise to inherent subjectivi ty and variation in the measurement outcomes. The process of making 
accounting estimates involves selecting and applying a method using assumptions and data, which 
requires judgment by management and can give rise to complexity in measurement. The effects of 
complexity, subjectivity or other inherent risk factors on the measurement of these monetary amounts 
affects their susceptibility to misstatement. (Ref: Para. A1–A6, Appendix 1)  
3. Although this SLAuS applies to all accounting estimates, the degree to which an accounting estimate is 
subject to estimation uncertainty will vary substantially. The nature, timing and extent of the risk 
assessment and further audit procedures required by this SLAuS will vary in relation to the estimation 
uncertainty and the assessment of the related risks of material misstatement. For certain accounting 
estimates, estimation uncertainty may be very low, based on their nature, and the complexity and 
subjectivity involved in making them may also be very low. For such accounting  estimates, the risk 
assessment procedures and further audit procedures required by this SLAuS would not be expected to be 
extensive. When estimation uncertainty, complexity or subjectivity are very high, such procedures would 
be expected to be much more e xtensive. This SLAuS contains guidance on how the requirements of this 
SLAuS can be scaled. (Ref: Para. A7) 
Key Concepts of This SLAuS 
4. This SLAuS requires a separate assessment of inherent risk for purposes of assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the assertion level for accounting estimates. Depending on the nature of a particular 
accounting estimate, the susceptibility of an assertion to a misstatement that could be material may be 
subject to or affected by estimation uncertainty, complexity,  subjectivity or other inherent risk factors, 
and the interrelationship among them. As explained in SLAuS 200,5 inherent risk is higher for some 
                                                           
1  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its 
Environment 
2  SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks 
3  SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit 
4  SLAuS 500, Audit Evidence 
5  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing 
Standards, paragraph A40 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   29A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
assertions and related classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures than for others. 
Accordingly, the assessment of inherent risk depends on the degree to which the inherent risk factors 
affect the likelihood or magnitude of misstatement, and varies on a scale that is referred to in this SLAuS 
as the spectrum of inherent risk. (Ref: Para. A8–A9, A65–A66, Appendix 1) 
5. This SLAuS refers to relevant requirements in SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 330, and provides related 
guidance, to emphasize the importance of the auditor’s decisions about controls relating to accounting 
estimates, including decisions about whether: 
 There are controls relevant to the audit, for which the auditor is required to evaluate their design 
and determine whether they have been implemented. 
 To test the operating effectiveness of relevant controls. 
6. This SLAuS also requires a se parate assessment of control risk when assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the assertion level for accounting estimates. In assessing control risk, the auditor takes 
into account whether the auditor’s further audit procedures contemplate planned reliance on the operating 
effectiveness of controls. If the auditor does not perform tests of controls, the auditor’s assessment of the 
risk of material misstatement at the assertion level cannot be reduced for the effective operation of controls 
with respect to the particular assertion.6 (Ref: Para. A10)  
7. This SLAuS emphasizes that the auditor’s further audit procedures (including, where appropriate, tests of 
controls) need to be responsive to the reasons for the assessed risks of material misstatement at the 
assertion level, taking into account the effect of one or more inherent risk factors and  the auditor’s 
assessment of control risk.  
8. The exercise of professional skepticism in relation to accounting estimates is affected by the auditor’s 
consideration of inherent risk factors, and its importance increases when accounting estimates are subject 
to a greater degree of estimation uncertainty or are affected to a greater degree by complexity, subjectivity 
or other inherent risk factors. Similarly, the exercise of professional skepticism is important when there 
is greater susceptibility to misstatement due to management bias or fraud. (Ref: Para. A11)  
9. This SLAuS requires the auditor to evaluate, based on the audit procedures performed and the audit 
evidence obtained, whether the accounting estimates and related disclosures are reasonable7 in the context 
of the applicable financial reporting framework, or are misstated. For purposes of this SLAuS, reasonable 
in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework means that the relevant requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting framework have been applied appropriately, including those that address:  
(Ref: Para. A12–A13, A139–A144) 
 The making of the accounting estimate, including the selection of the method, assumptions and 
data in view of the nature of the accounting estimate and the facts and circumstances of the entity;  
 The selection of management’s point estimate; and  
 The disclosures about the accounting estimate, including disclosures about how the accounting 
estimate was developed and that explain the nature, extent, and sources of estimation uncertainty.  
Effective Date 
10. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after December 15, 
2019. 
Objective 
                                                           
6  SLAuS 530, Audit Sampling, Appendix 3 
7  See also SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements, paragraph 13(c). 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
11. The objective of the auditor is to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about whether accounting 
estimates and related disclosures in the financial statements are reasonable in the context of the applicable 
financial reporting framework. 
Definitions 
12. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below: 
(a) Accounting estimate – A monetary amount for which the measurement, in accordance with the 
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, is subject  to estimation uncertainty. 
(Ref: Para. A14) 
(b) Auditor’s point estimate or auditor’s range – An amount, or range of amounts, respectively, 
developed by the auditor in evaluating management’s point estimate. (Ref: Para. A15) 
(c) Estimation uncertainty – Susceptibility to an inherent lack of precision in measurement. (Ref: Para. A16, 
Appendix 1) 
(d) Management bias – A lack of neutrality by management in the preparation of information. (Ref: Para. 
A17) 
(e) Management’s point estimate – The amount selected by management for recognition or disclosure in 
the financial statements as an accounting estimate. 
(f) Outcome of an accounting estimate – The actual monetary amount that results from the resolution 
of the transaction(s), event(s) or condition(s) addressed by an accounting estimate. (Ref: Para. A18) 
Requirements 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities  
13. When obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control, 
as required by SLAuS 315 (Revised),8 the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the following matters 
related to the entity’s accounting estimates. The auditor’s procedures to obtain the understanding shall be 
performed to the extent necessary to provide an appropriate basis for the identification and assessment of 
risks of material misstatement at the financial statement and assertion levels. (Ref: Para. A19 –A22)  
The Entity and Its Environment 
(a) The entity’s transactions and other events and conditions that may give rise to the need for , or 
changes in, accounting estimates to be recognized or disclosed in the financial statements. (Ref: 
Para. A23) 
(b) The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework related to accounting estimates 
(including the recognition criteria, measurement bases, and the related presentation and disclosure 
requirements); and how they apply in the context of the nature and circumstances of the entity and 
its environment, including how transactions and other events or conditions are subject to, or 
affected by, inherent risk factors. (Ref: Para. A24–A25) 
(c) Regulatory factors relevant to the entity’s accounting estimates, including, when applicable, 
regulatory frameworks related to prudential supervision. (Ref: Para. A26) 
                                                           
8  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraphs 3, 5–6, 9, 11–12, 15–17, and 20–21 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   31A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
(d) The nature of the accountin g estimates and related disclosures that the auditor expects to be 
included in the entity’s financial statements, based on the auditor’s understanding of the matters in 
13(a)–(c) above. (Ref: Para. A27) 
The Entity’s Internal Control  
(e) The nature and extent of oversight and governance that the entity has in place over management’s 
financial reporting process relevant to accounting estimates. (Ref: Para. A28–A30). 
(f) How management identifies the need for, and applies, specialized skills or knowledge r elated to 
accounting estimates, including with respect to the use of a management’s expert. (Ref: Para. A31) 
(g) How the entity’s risk assessment process identifies and addresses risks relating to accounting 
estimates. (Ref: Para. A32–A33) 
(h) The entity’s information system as it relates to accounting estimates, including: 
(i) The classes of transactions, events and conditions that are significant to the financial 
statements and that give rise to the need for, or changes in, accounting estimates and related 
disclosures; and (Ref: Para. A34–A35) 
(ii) For such accounting estimates and related disclosures, how management:  
a. Identifies the relevant methods, assumptions or sources of  data, and the need for 
changes in them, that are appropriate in the context of  the applicable financial 
reporting framework, including how management: (Ref: Para. A36–A37) 
i. Selects or designs, and applies, the methods used, including the use of models; 
(Ref: Para. A38–A39) 
ii. Selects the assumptions to be used, including consideration o f alternatives, 
and identifies significant assumptions; and (Ref: Para. A40–A43) 
iii. Selects the data to be used; (Ref: Para. A44) 
b. Understands the degree of estimation uncertainty, including through considering the 
range of possible measurement outcomes; and (Ref: Para. A45) 
c. Addresses the estimation uncertainty, including selecting a point estimate and related 
disclosures for inclusion in the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A46–A49) 
(i) Control activities relevant to the audit over management’s process for making accounting estimates 
as described in paragraph 13(h)(ii). (Ref: Para. A50–A54) 
(j) How management reviews the outcome(s) of previous accounting estimates and responds to the 
results of that review. 
14. The auditor shall review the outcome of previous accounting estimates, or, where applicable, their 
subsequent re-estimation to assist in identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the 
current period. The auditor shall take into account the characteristics of the accounting estimates  in 
determining the nature and extent of that review . The review is not intended to call into question 
judgments about previous period accounting estimates that were appropriate based on the information 
available at the time they were made. (Ref: Para. A55–A60) 
15. With respect to accounting estimates, the auditor shall  determine whether the engagement team requires 
specialized skills or knowledge to perform the risk assessment procedures, to identify and assess the risks 
of material misstatement, to design and perform audit procedures to respond to those risks, or to evaluate 
the audit evidence obtained. (Ref: Para. A61–A63) 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement 
16. In identifying and as sessing the risks of material misstatement relating to an accounting estimate and 
related disclosures at the assertion level, as required by SLAuS 315 (Revised),9 the auditor shall separately 
assess inherent risk and control risk. The auditor shall take th e following into account in identifying the 
risks of material misstatement and in assessing inherent risk: (Ref: Para. A64 –A71) 
(a) The degree to which the accounting estimate is subject to estimation uncertainty; and (Ref: Para. 
A72–A75) 
(b) The degree to which the following are affected by complexity, subjectivity, or other inherent risk 
factors: (Ref: Para. A76–A79) 
(i) The selection and application of the method, assumptions and data in making the accounting 
estimate; or 
(ii) The selection of management ’s point estimate and related disclosures for inclusion in the 
financial statements. 
17. The auditor shall determine whether any of the risks of material misstatement identified and assessed in 
accordance with paragraph 16 are, in the auditor’s judgment, a  significant risk. 10 If the auditor has 
determined that a significant risk exists, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the entity’s controls, 
including control activities, relevant to that risk.11 (Ref: Para. A80) 
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement 
18. As required by SLAuS 330,12 the auditor’s further audit procedures shall be responsive to the assessed 
risks of material misstatement at the assertion level,13 considering the reasons for the assessment given to 
those risks. The auditor’s further audit procedures shall include one or more of the following approaches:  
(a) Obtaining audit evidence from events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report (see paragraph 
21); 
(b) Testing how management made the accounting estimate (see paragraphs 22 –27); or 
(c) Developing an auditor’s point estimate or range (see paragraphs 28–29).  
The auditor’s further audit procedures shall take into account that the higher the assessed risk of material 
misstatement, the more persuasive the audit evidence needs to be.14 The auditor shall design and perform 
further audit procedures  in a manner that is not biased towards obtaining audit evidence that may be 
corroborative or towards excluding audit evidence that may be contradictory. (Ref: Para. A81–A84) 
19. As required by SLAuS 330,15 the auditor shall design and perform tests to obtain sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence as to the operating effectiveness of relevant controls, if: 
                                                           
9  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraphs 25 and 26 
10  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 27 
11  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 29 
12  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 6–15 and 18 
13  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 6–7 and 21 
14  SLAuS 330, paragraph 7(b) 
15  SLAuS 330, paragraph 8 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   33A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
(a) The auditor’s assessment of risks of material misstatement at the assertion level includes an 
expectation that the controls are operating effectively; or  
(b) Substantive procedures alone cannot provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence at the assertion 
level. 
In relation to accounting estimates, the auditor’s tests of such controls shall be responsive to the reasons 
for the assessment given to the risks of material misstatement. In designing and performing tests of 
controls, the auditor shall obtain more persuasive audit evidence the greater the reliance the auditor places 
on the effectiveness of a control.16 (Ref: Para. A85–A89) 
20. For a significant risk relating to an accounting estimate, the auditor’s further audit procedures shall include 
tests of controls in the current period if the auditor plans to rely on those controls. When the approach to 
a significant risk consists only of substantive procedures, those procedures shall include tests of details.17 
(Ref: Para. A90) 
Obtaining Audit Evidence from Events Occurring up to the Date of the Auditor’ s Report 
21. When the auditor’s further audit procedures include obtaining audit evidence from events occurring up to 
the date of the auditor’s report, the auditor shall evaluate whether such audit evidence is su fficient and 
appropriate to address the risks of material misstatement relating to the accounting estimate, taking into 
account that changes in circumstances and other relevant conditions between the event and the 
measurement date may affect the relevance of such audit evidence in the context of the applicable financial 
reporting framework. (Ref: Para. A91–A93) 
Testing How Management Made the Accounting Estimate  
22. When testing how management made the accounting estimate, the auditor’s further audit procedures shall 
include procedures, designed and performed in accordance with paragraphs 23 –26, to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence regarding the risks of material misstatement relating to: (Ref: Para. A94)  
(a)  The selection and application of the methods, significant assumptions and the data used by 
management in making the accounting estimate; and  
(b)  How management selected the point estimate and developed related disclosures about estimation 
uncertainty. 
Methods 
23. In applying the requirements of paragraph 22, with respect to methods, the auditor’s further audit 
procedures shall address: 
(a) Whether the method selected is appropriate in the context of the applicable financial reporting 
framework, and, if applicable, changes from the method used in prior periods are appropriate; (Ref: 
Para. A95, A97)  
(b) Whether judgments made in selecting the  method give rise to indicators of possible management 
bias; (Ref: Para. A96) 
(c) Whether the calculations are applied in accordance with the method and are mathematically 
accurate;  
(d) When management’s application of the method involves complex modellin g, whether judgments 
have been applied consistently and whether, when applicable: (Ref: Para. A98–A100) 
                                                           
16  SLAuS 330, paragraph 9 
17  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 15 and 21 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
(i) The design of the model meets the measurement objective of the applicable financial 
reporting framework, is appropriate in the circumstances, and, i f applicable, changes from 
the prior period’s model are appropriate in the circumstances; and 
(ii) Adjustments to the output of the model are consistent with the measurement objective of the 
applicable financial reporting framework and are appropriate in the circumstances; and 
(e) Whether the integrity of the significant assumptions and the data has been maintained in applying 
the method. (Ref: Para. A101) 
Significant Assumptions 
24. In applying the requirements of paragraph 22, with respect to significant assumptions, the auditor’s further 
audit procedures shall address:  
(a) Whether the significant assumptions are appropriate in the context of the applicable financial 
reporting framework, and, if applicable, changes from prior period s are appropriate; (Ref: Para. 
A95, A102–A103) 
(b) Whether judgments made in selecting the significant assumptions give rise to indicators of possible 
management bias; (Ref: Para. A96) 
(c) Whether the significant assumptions are consistent with each other and with those used in other 
accounting estimates, or with related assumptions used in other areas of the entity’s business 
activities, based on the auditor’s knowledge obtained in the audit; and (Ref: Para. A104) 
(d) When applicable, whether management ha s the intent to carry out specific courses of action and 
has the ability to do so. (Ref: Para. A105) 
Data 
25. In applying the requirements of paragraph 22, with respect to data, the auditor’s further audit procedures 
shall address:  
(a) Whether the data is appropriate in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework, and, 
if applicable, changes from prior periods are appropriate (Ref: Para. A95, A106);  
(b) Whether judgments made in selecting the data give rise to indicators of possible management bias; 
(Ref: Para. A96) 
(c) Whether the data is relevant and reliable in the circumstances; and (Ref: Para. A107)  
(d) Whether the data has been appropriately understood or interpreted by management, including with 
respect to contractual terms. (Ref: Para. A108) 
Management’s Selection of a Point Estimate and Related Disclosures about Estimation Uncertainty 
26. In applying the requirements of paragraph 22, the auditor’s further audit procedures shall address whether, 
in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework, management has taken appropriate steps 
to:  
(a) Understand estimation uncertainty; and (Ref: Para. A109) 
(b) Address estimation uncertainty by selecting an appropriate point estimate and by developing 
related disclosures about estimation uncertainty. (Ref: Para. A110–A114) 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   35A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
27. When, in the auditor’s judgment based on the audit evidence obtained, management has not taken 
appropriate steps to understand or address estimation uncertainty, the auditor shall: (Ref: Para. A115 –
A117) 
 (a) Request management to perform additional procedures to understand estimation uncertainty or to 
address it by reconsidering the selection of management’s point estimate or considering providing 
additional disclosures relating to the estimation unc ertainty, and evaluate management’s 
response(s) in accordance with paragraph 26; 
(b) If the auditor determines that management’s response to the auditor’s request does not sufficiently 
address estimation uncertainty, to the extent practicable, develop an a uditor’s point estimate or 
range in accordance with paragraphs 28–29; and  
(c) Evaluate whether a deficiency in internal control exists and, if so, communicate in accordance with 
SLAuS 265.18  
Developing an Auditor’s Point Estimate or Range 
28.  When the auditor develops a point estimate or range to evaluate management’s point estimate and related 
disclosures about estimation uncertainty, including when required by paragraph 27(b), the auditor’s 
further audit procedures shall include procedures to evaluate w hether the methods, assumptions or data 
used are appropriate in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework. Regardless of whether 
the auditor uses management’s or the auditor’s own methods, assumptions or data, these further audit 
procedures shall be designed and performed to address the matters in paragraphs 23–25. (Ref: Para. A118–
A123)  
29. If the auditor develops an auditor’s range, the auditor shall:  
(a) Determine that the range includes only amounts that a re supported by sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence and have been evaluated by the auditor to be reasonable in the context of the measurement 
objectives and other requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework; and (Ref: Para. 
A124–A125) 
(b) Design and perform furthe r audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement relating to the disclosures in the financial 
statements that describe the estimation uncertainty. 
Other Considerations Relating to Audit Evidence 
30. In obtaining audit evidence regarding the risks of material misstatement relating to accounting estimates, 
irrespective of the sources of information to be used as audit evidence, the auditor shall comply with the 
relevant requirements in SLAuS 500.  
 When using the work of a management’s expert, the requirements in paragraphs 21 –29 of this SLAuS 
may assist the auditor in evaluating the appropriateness of the expert’s work as audit evidence for a 
relevant assertion in accordance with paragrap h 8(c) of SLAuS 500. In evaluating the work of the 
management’s expert, the nature, timing and extent of the further audit procedures are affected by the 
auditor’s evaluation of the expert’s competence, capabilities and objectivity, the auditor’s understan ding 
of the nature of the work performed by the expert, and the auditor’s familiarity with the expert’s field of 
expertise. (Ref: Para. A126–A132) 
                                                           
18  SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management 

<!-- page 36 -->

36A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Disclosures Related to Accounting Estimates 
31. The auditor shall design and perform further audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement at the assertion level for disclosures related 
to an accounting estimate, other than those related to estimation uncertainty addressed in paragraphs 26(b) 
and 29(b).  
Indicators of Possible Management Bias 
32. The auditor shall evaluate whether judgments and decisions made by management in making the 
accounting estimates included in the financial  statements, even if they are individually reasonable, are 
indicators of possible management bias. When indicators of possible management bias are identified, the 
auditor shall evaluate the implications for the audit. Where there is intention to mislead, management bias 
is fraudulent in nature. (Ref: Para. A133–A136) 
Overall Evaluation Based on Audit Procedures Performed  
33. In applying SLAuS 330 to accounting estimates,19 the auditor shall evaluate, based on the audit procedures 
performed and audit evidence obtained, whether: (Ref: Para A137–A138) 
(a) The assessments of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level remain appropriate, 
including when indicators of possible management bias have been identified;  
(b) Management’s decisions relating to the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of 
these accounting estimates in the financial statements are in accordance with the applicable 
financial reporting framework; and 
(c) Sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained.  
34. In making the evaluation required by paragraph 33(c), the auditor shall take into account all relevant audit 
evidence obtained, whether corroborative or contradictory. 20 If the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence, the auditor shall evaluate the implications for the audit or the auditor’s opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised).21 
Determining Whether the Accounting Estimates are Reasonable or Misstated  
35. The auditor shall determine whether t he accounting estimates and related disclosures are reasonable in 
the context of the applicable financial reporting framework, or are misstated. SLAuS 45022 provides 
guidance on how the auditor may distinguish misstatements (whether factual, judgmental, or projected) 
for the auditor’s evaluation of the effect of uncorrected misstatements on the financial statements. (Ref: 
Para. A12–A13, A139–A144) 
36. In relation to accounting estimates, the auditor shall evaluate:  
                                                           
19  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 25–26 
20  SLAuS 500, paragraph 11 
21  SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
22  SLAuS 450, paragraph A6 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   37A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
(a) In the case of a fair presentation framework, whether management has included disclosures, beyond 
those specifically required by the framework, that are necessary to achieve the fair presentation of 
the financial statements as a whole;23 or 
(b) In the case of a compliance framework, whether the disclosures are those that are necessary for the 
financial statements not to be misleading.24  
Written Representations 
37. The auditor shall request written representations from management 25 and, when appropriate, those 
charged with governance about whether the methods, significant assumptions and the data used in making 
the accounting estimates and the related disclosures are appropriate to achieve recognition, measurement 
or disclosure that  is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. The auditor shall 
also consider the need to obtain representations about specific accounting estimates, including in relation 
to the methods, assumptions, or data used. (Ref: Para. A145)  
Communication with Those Charged With Governance, Management, or Other Relevant Parties 
38. In applying SLAuS 260 (Revised)26 and SLAuS 265,27 the auditor is required to communicate with those 
charged with governance or management about certain matters, inc luding significant qualitative aspects 
of the entity’s accounting practices and significant deficiencies in internal control, respectively. In doing 
so, the auditor shall consider the matters, if any, to communicate regarding accounting estimates and take 
into account whether the reasons given to the risks of material misstatement relate to estimation 
uncertainty, or the effects of complexity, subjectivity or other inherent risk factors in making accounting 
estimates and related disclosures. In addition, in certain circumstances, the auditor is required by law or 
regulation to communicate about certain matters with other relevant parties, such as regulators or 
prudential supervisors. (Ref: Para. A146–A148)  
Documentation 
39. The auditor shall include in the audit documentation:28 (Ref: Para. A149–A152) 
(a) Key elements of the auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s 
internal control related to the entity’s accounting estimates;  
(b) The linkage of the auditor’s further audit procedures with the assessed risks of material 
misstatement at the assertion level, 29 taking into account the reasons (whether related to inherent 
risk or control risk) given to the assessment of those risks; 
(c) The auditor’s response(s) when management has not taken appropriate steps to understand and 
address estimation uncertainty;  
(d) Indicators of possible management bias related to accounting estimates, if any, and the auditor’s 
evaluation of the implications for the audit, as required by paragraph 32; and  
                                                           
23  See also SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 14. 
24  See also SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 19. 
25  SLAuS 580, Written Representations 
26  SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance, paragraph 16(a) 
27  SLAuS 265, paragraph 9 
28  SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation, paragraphs 8–11, A6, A7 and A10 
29  SLAuS 330, paragraph 28(b) 

<!-- page 38 -->

38A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
(e) Significant judgments relating to the auditor's determination of whether the accounting estimates 
and related disclosures are reasonable in the context of the applicable financial reporting 
framework, or are misstated. 
*     *     * 
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
Nature of Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 2) 
Examples of Accounting Estimates  
A1. Examples of accounting estimates related to classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures 
include: 
 Inventory obsolescence. 
 Depreciation of property and equipment. 
 Valuation of infrastructure assets. 
 Valuation of financial instruments. 
 Outcome of pending litigation. 
 Provision for expected credit losses. 
 Valuation of insurance contract liabilities. 
 Warranty obligations. 
 Employee retirement benefits liabilities. 
 Share-based payments.  
 Fair value of assets or liabilities acquired in a business combination, including the determination 
of goodwill and intangible assets.  
 Impairment of long-lived assets or property or equipment held for disposal. 
 Non-monetary exchanges of assets or liabilities between independent parties.  
 Revenue recognized for long-term contracts. 
Methods 
A2. A method is a measurement technique used by management to make an accounting estimate in accordance 
with the required measurement basis. For example, one recognized method used to make accounting 
estimates relating to share-based payment transactions is to determine a theoretical option call price using 
the Black-Scholes option pricing formula. A method is applied using a computational tool or process, 
sometimes referred to as a model, and involves applying assumptions and data and taking into account a 
set of relationships between them. 
Assumptions and Data 
A3.  Assumptions involve judgments based on available information about matters such as the choice of an 
interest rate, a discount rate, or judgments about future conditions or events. An assumption may be 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   39A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
selected by management from a range of appropriate alternatives. Assumptions that may be made or 
identified by a management’s expert become management’s assumptions  when used by management in 
making an accounting estimate. 
A4. For purposes of this SLAuS, data is information that can be obtained through direct observation or from 
a party external to the entity. Information obtained by applying analytical or interpretive techniques to 
data is referred to as derived data when such techniques have a well -established theoretical basis and 
therefore less need for management judgment. Otherwise, such information is an assumption.  
A5. Examples of data include: 
 Prices agreed in market transactions; 
 Operating times or quantities of output from a production machine; 
 Historical prices or other terms included in contracts, such as a contracted interest rate, a payment 
schedule, and term included in a loan agreement;  
 Forward-looking information such as economic or earnings forecasts obtained from an external 
information source, or  
 A future interest rate determined using interpolation techniques from forward interest rates (derived 
data). 
A6. Data can come from a wide range of sources. For example, data can be:  
 Generated within the organization or externally; 
 Obtained from a system that is either within or outside the general or subsidiary ledgers;  
 Observable in contracts; or 
 Observable in legislative or regulatory pronouncements. 
Scalability (Ref: Para. 3) 
A7. Examples of paragraphs that include guidance on how the requirements of this SLAuS can be scaled 
include paragraphs A20–A22, A63, A67, and A84. 
Key Concepts of This SLAuS 
Inherent Risk Factors (Ref: Para. 4) 
A8.  Inherent risk factors are characteristics of conditions and events that may affect the susceptibility of an assertion 
to misstatement, before consideration of controls. Appendix 1 further explains the nature of these inherent 
risk factors, and their inter -relationships, in the context of making accounting estimates and their 
presentation in the financial statements.  
A9. In addition to the inherent risk factors of estimation uncertainty, complexity or subjectivity, other inherent 
risk factors that the audit or may consider in identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement 
may include the extent to which the accounting estimate is subject to, or affected by: 
 Change in the nature or circumstances of the relevant financial statement items, or requirements of 
the applicable financial reporting framework which may give rise to the need for changes in the 
method, assumptions or data used to make the accounting estimate. 
 Susceptibility to misstatement due to management bias or fraud in making the accounting estimate. 

<!-- page 40 -->

40A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Control Risk (Ref: Para. 6) 
A10.  An important consideration for the auditor in assessing control risk at the assertion level is the 
effectiveness of the design of the controls that the auditor intends to rely on and the extent to which the 
controls address the assessed inherent risks at t he assertion level. The auditor’s evaluation that controls 
are effectively designed and have been implemented supports an expectation about the operating 
effectiveness of the controls in determining whether to test them.  
Professional Skepticism (Ref: Para. 8) 
A11. Paragraphs A60, A95, A96, A137 and A139 are examples of paragraphs that describe  ways in which the 
auditor can exercise professional skepticism. Paragraph A152 provides guidance on ways in which the 
auditor’s exercise of professional skepticism m ay be documented, and includes e xamples of specific 
paragraphs in this SLAuS for which documentation may provide evidence of the exercise of professional 
skepticism.  
Concept of “Reasonable” (Ref: Para. 9, 35)  
A12. Other considerations that may be relevan t to the auditor’s consideration of whether the accounting 
estimates and related disclosures are reasonable in the context of the applicable financial reporting 
framework include whether: 
 The data and assumptions used in making the accounting estimate are consistent with each other 
and with those used in other accounting estimates or areas of the entity’s business activities; and  
 The accounting estimate takes into account appropriate information as required by the applicable 
financial reporting framework. 
A13. The term “applied appropriately” as used in paragraph 9 means in a manner that not only complies with 
the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework but, in doing so, reflects judgments that 
are consistent with the objective of the measurement basis in that framework. 
Definitions 
Accounting Estimate (Ref: Para. 12(a)) 
A14. Accounting estimates are monetary amounts that may be related to classes of transactions or account 
balances recognized or disclosed in the financial statements. Accounting estimates also include monetary 
amounts included in disclosures or used to make judgments about recognition or disclosure relating to a 
class of transactions or account balance. 
Auditor’ s Point Estimate or Auditor’ s Range (Ref: Para. 12(b)) 
A15. An auditor’s point estimate or range may be used to evaluate an accounting estimate directly (for example, 
an impairment provision or the fair value of different types of financial instruments), or indirectly (for 
example, an amount to be used as a significant assumption for an accounting estimate). A similar approach 
may be taken by the auditor in developing an amount or range of amounts in evaluating a non -monetary 
item of data or an assumption (for example, an estimated useful life of an asset).  

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   41A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 12(c)) 
A16. Not all accounting estimates are subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty. For example, some 
financial statement items may have an active and open market that provides readily available and reliable 
information on the prices at which actual exchanges occur. However, estimation uncertainty may exist 
even when the valuation method and data are well defined. For example, valuation of securities quoted 
on an active and open market at the listed market price may require adjustment if the holding is significant 
or is subject to restrictions in marketability. In addition, general economic circumstances prevailing at the 
time, for example, illiquidity in a particular market, may impact estimation uncertainty.  
Management Bias (Ref: Para. 12(d)) 
A17. Financial reporting frameworks often call for neutrality, that is, freedom from bias. Estimation uncertainty 
gives rise to subjectivity in making an accounting estimate. The presence of subjectivity gives rise to the 
need for judgment by management and the susceptibility to unintentional or intentional management bias 
(for example, as a result of motivation to achieve a desired profit target or capital ratio). The susceptibility 
of an accounting estimate to management bias increases with the extent to which  there is subjectivity in 
making the accounting estimate.  
Outcome of an Accounting Estimate (Ref: Para. 12(f)) 
A18. Some accounting estimates, by their nature, do not have an outcome that is relevant for the auditor’s work 
performed in accordance with thi s SLAuS. For example, an accounting estimate may be based on 
perceptions of market participants at a point in time. Accordingly, the price realized when an asset is sold 
or a liability is transferred may differ from the related accounting estimate made at the reporting date 
because, with the passage of time, the market participants’ perceptions of value have changed.  
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities  
Obtaining an Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment (Ref: Para. 13) 
A19.  Paragraphs 11 –24 of SLAuS 315 (Revised) require the auditor to obtain an understanding of certain 
matters about the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control. The requirements in 
paragraph 13 of this SLAuS relate more specifically to acc ounting estimates and build on the broader 
requirements in SLAuS 315 (Revised).  
Scalability 
A20. The nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s procedures to obtain the understanding of the entity and its 
environment, including the entity’s internal control, related to the entity’s accounting estimates, may 
depend, to a greater or lesser degree, on th e extent to which the individual matter(s) apply in the 
circumstances. For example, the entity may have few transactions or other events and conditions that give 
rise to the need for accounting estimates, the applicable financial reporting requirements may  be simple 
to apply, and there may be no relevant regulatory factors. Further, the accounting estimates may not 
require significant judgments, and the process for making the accounting estimates may be less complex. 
In these circumstances, the accounting estimates may be subject to or affected by estimation uncertainty, 
complexity, subjectivity, or other inherent risk factors to a lesser degree and there may be fewer controls 
relevant to the audit. If so, the auditor’s risk assessment procedures are likely to be less extensive and may 
be obtained primarily through inquiries of management with appropriate responsibilities for the financial 
statements and simple walk-throughs of management’s process for making the accounting estimate. 
A21. By contrast, the accounting estimates may require significant judgments by management, and the process 
for making the accounting estimates may be complex and involve the use of complex models. In addition, 
the entity may have a more sophisticated information system, and more extensive controls over accounting 
estimates. In these circumstances, the accounting estimates may be subject to or affected by estimation 

<!-- page 42 -->

42A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
uncertainty, subjectivity, complexity or other inherent risk factors to a greater degree. If so, the nature or 
timing of the auditor’s risk assessment procedures are likely to be different, or be more extensive, than in 
the circumstances in paragraph A20. 
A22. The following considerations may be relevant for entities with only simple businesses, which may include 
many smaller entities: 
 Processes relevant to accounting estimates may be uncomplicated because the business activities 
are simple or the required estimates may have a lesser degree of estimation uncertainty.  
 Accounting estimates may be generated outside of the general and subsidiary ledgers, controls over 
their development may be limited, and an owner-manager may have significant influence over their 
determination. The owner-manager’s role in making the accounting estimates may need to be taken 
into account by the auditor both when identifying the risks of material misstatement and when 
considering the risk of management bias.  
The Entity and Its Environment 
The entity’s transactions and other events and conditions (Ref: Para. 13(a)) 
A23.  Changes in circ umstances that may give rise to the need for, or changes in, accounting estimates may 
include, for example, whether: 
 The entity has engaged in new types of transactions; 
 Terms of transactions have changed; or 
 New events or conditions have occurred. 
The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework (Ref: Para. 13(b)) 
A24. Obtaining an understanding of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework provides 
the auditor with a basis for discussion with management and, where applicable, those charged with 
governance about how management has applied those requirements relevant to the accounting estimates, 
and about the auditor’s determination of whether they have been applied appropriately. This understanding 
also may ass ist the auditor in communicating with those charged with governance when the auditor 
considers a significant accounting practice that is acceptable under the applicable financial reporting 
framework not to be the most appropriate in the circumstances of the entity.30 
A25. In obtaining this understanding, the auditor may seek to understand whether:  
 The applicable financial reporting framework: 
o Prescribes certain criteria for the recognition, or methods for the measurement of accounting 
estimates; 
o  Specifies certain criteria that permit or require measurement at a fair value, for example, by 
referring to management’s intentions to carry out certain courses of action with respect to 
an asset or liability; or 
o  Specifies required or suggested disclosures, including disclosures concerning judgments, 
assumptions, or other sources of estimation uncertainty relating to accounting estimates; and 
                                                           
30  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 16(a) 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   43A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
 Changes in the applicable financial reporting framework require changes to the entity’s accounting 
policies relating to accounting estimates.  
Regulatory factors (Ref: Para. 13(c)) 
A26. Obtaining an understanding of regulatory factors, if any, that are relevant to accounting estimates may 
assist the auditor in identifying applicable regulatory frameworks ( for example, regulatory frameworks 
established by prudential supervisors in the banking or insurance industries)  and in determining whether 
such regulatory framework(s): 
 Addresses conditions for the recognition, or methods for the measurement, of accounting estimates, 
or provides related guidance thereon; 
 Specifies, or provides guidance about, disclosures in addition to the requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting framework;  
 Provides an indication of areas for which there may be a potential for manageme nt bias to meet 
regulatory requirements; or 
 Contains requirements for regulatory purposes that are not consistent with requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting framework, which may indicate potential risks of material 
misstatement. For example,  some regulators may seek to influence minimum levels for expected 
credit loss provisions that exceed those required by the applicable financial reporting framework.  
The nature of the accounting estimates and related disclosures that the auditor expects to be included in the 
financial statements (Ref: Para. 13(d)) 
A27. Obtaining an understanding of the nature of accounting estimates and related disclosures that the auditor 
expects to be included in the entity’s financial statements assists the auditor in understanding the 
measurement basis of such accounting estimates and the nature and extent of disclosures that may be 
relevant. Such an understanding provides the auditor with a basis for discussion with management about 
how management makes the accounting estimates.  
The Entity’ s Internal Control Relevant to the Audit  
The nature and extent of oversight and governance (Ref: Para. 13(e)) 
A28.  In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised),31 the auditor’s understanding of the nature and extent of oversight and 
governance that the entity has in place over management’s process for making accounting estimates may 
be important to the auditor’s required evaluation as it relates to whether: 
 Management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, has created and maintained a 
culture of honesty and ethical behavior; and 
 The strengths in the control environment elements collectively provide an appropriate foundation 
for the other components of internal control and whether those other components are undermined 
by deficiencies in the control environment.  
A29.  The auditor may obtain an understanding of whether those charged with governance:  
 Have the skills or knowledge to understand the characteristics of a particular method or model to 
make accounting estimates, or the risks related to the accounting estimate, for example, risks 
related to the method or information technology used in making the accounting estimates;  
                                                           
31  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 14 

<!-- page 44 -->

44A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
 Have the skills and knowledge to understand whether management made the accounting estimates 
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework;  
 Are independent from management, have the information required to evaluate on a timely basis 
how management made th e accounting estimates, and the authority to call into question 
management’s actions when those actions appear to be inadequate or inappropriate;  
 Oversee management’s process for making the accounting estimates, including the use of models; 
or 
 Oversee the monitoring activities undertaken by management. This may include supervision and 
review procedures designed to detect and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating 
effectiveness of controls over the accounting estimates. 
A30.  Obtaining an understanding of the oversight by those charged with governance may be important when 
there are accounting estimates that: 
 Require significant judgment by management to address subjectivity; 
 Have high estimation uncertainty;  
 Are complex to make, for example, because of the extensive use of information technology, large 
volumes of data or the use of multiple data sources or assumptions with complex interrelationships; 
 Had, or ought to have had, a change in the method, assumptions or data compared to previous 
periods; or 
 Involve significant assumptions. 
Management’s application of specialized skills or knowledge, including the use of management’s experts (Ref: 
Para. 13(f)) 
A31. The auditor may consider whether the following circumstances increase the  likelihood that management 
needs to engage an expert:32 
 The specialized nature of the matter requiring estimation, for example, the accounting estimate 
may involve measurement of mineral or hydrocarbon reserves in extractive industries or the 
evaluation of the likely outcome of applying complex contractual terms. 
 The complex nature of the models required to apply the relevant requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting framework, as may be the case in certain measurements, such as level 3 fair 
values.33 
 The unusual or infrequent nature of the condition, transaction or event requiring an accounting 
estimate.  
The entity’s risk assessment process (Ref: Para. 13(g)) 
A32. Understanding h ow the entity’s risk assessment process identifies and addresses  risks relating to 
accounting estimates may assist the auditor in considering changes in: 
                                                           
32  SLAuS 500, paragraph 8 
33  See, for example, Sri Lanka Accounting Standard - SLFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement. 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   45A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
 The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework related to the accounting 
estimates; 
 The availability or nature of data sources that are relevant  to making the accounting estimates or 
that may affect the reliability of the data used;  
 The entity’s information system or IT environment; and 
 Key personnel. 
A33.  Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of how management identified and 
addresses the susceptibility to misstatement due to management bias or fraud in making accounting 
estimates, include whether and, if so, how management:  
 Pays particular attention to selecting or applying the methods, assumptions and data used in making 
accounting estimates.  
 Monitors key performance indicators that may indicate unexpected or inconsistent performance 
compared with historical or budgeted performance or with other known factors.  
 Identifies financial or other incentives that may be a motivation for bias.  
 Monitors the need for changes in the methods, significant assumptions or the data used in making 
accounting estimates. 
 Establishes appropriate oversight and review of models used in making accounting estimates. 
 Requires documentation of the rationale for, or an independent review of, significant judgments 
made in making accounting estimates. 
The entity’s information system relating to accounting estimates (Ref: Para. 13(h)(i)) 
A34. The classes of transactions, events and conditions within the scope of paragraph 13(h) are the same as the 
classes of transactions, events and conditions relating to accounting estimates and related disclosures that 
are subject to paragraphs 18(a) and (d) of SLAuS 315 (Revised). In obtaining the understanding of the 
entity’s information system as it relates to accounting estimates, the auditor may consider: 
 Whether the accounting estimates arise from the recording of routine and recurring transactions or 
whether they arise from non-recurring or unusual transactions. 
 How the information system addresses the completeness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures, in particular for accounting estimates related to liabilities. 
A35. During the audit, the auditor may identify classes of transactions, events and conditions that give rise to 
the need for accounting estimates and related disclosures that management failed to identify. SLAuS 315 
(Revised) deals with circumstances where the auditor identif ies risks of material misstatement that 
management failed to identify, including determining whether there is a significant deficiency in internal 
control with regard to the entity’s risk assessment process.34 
Management’s identification of the relevant methods, assumptions and sources of data (Ref: Para. 13(h)(ii)(a)) 
A36.  If management has changed the method for making an accounting estimate, considerations may include 
whether the new method is, for example, more appropriate, is itself a response to changes in the 
environment or circumstances affecting the entity, or to cha nges in the requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting framework or regulatory environment, or whether management has another valid 
reason.  
                                                           
34  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 17 

<!-- page 46 -->

46A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
A37.  If management has not changed the method for making an accounting estimate, considerations may 
include whether the continued use of the previous methods, assumptions and data is appropriate in view 
of the current environment or circumstances.  
Methods (Ref: Para. 13(h)(ii)(a)(i)) 
A38. The applicable financial reporting framework may prescribe the method t o be used in making an 
accounting estimate. In many cases, however, the applicable financial reporting framework does not 
prescribe a single method, or the required measurement basis prescribes, or allows, the use of alternative 
methods. 
Models  
A39. Management may design and implement specific controls around models used for making accounting 
estimates, whether management’s own model or an external model. When the model itself has an increased 
level of complexity or subjectivity, such as an expected credit loss model or a fair value model using level 
3 inputs, controls that address such complexity or subjectivity may be more likely to be identified as 
relevant to the audit. When complexity in relation to models is present, controls over data integrity are 
also more likely to be relevant to the audit. Factors that may be appropriate for the auditor to consider in 
obtaining an understanding of the model and of control activities relevant to the audit include the 
following:  
 How management determines the relevance and accuracy of the model; 
 The validation or back testing of the model, including whether the model is validated prior to use 
and revalidated at regular intervals to determine whether it remains suitable for its intended use. 
The entity’s validation of the model may include evaluation of: 
o The model’s theoretical soundness; 
o The model’s mathematical integrity; and 
o The accuracy and completeness of the data and the appropriateness of data and assumptions 
used in the model; 
 How the model is appropriately changed or adjusted on a timely basis for changes in market or 
other conditions and whether there are appropriate change control policies over the model;  
 Whether adjustments, also referred to as overlays in certain industries, are made to t he output of 
the model and whether such adjustments are appropriate in the circumstances in accordance with 
the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. When the adjustments are not 
appropriate, such adjustments may be indicators of possible management bias; and 
 Whether the model is adequately documented, including its intended applications, limitations, key 
parameters, required data and assumptions, the results of any validation performed on it and the 
nature of, and basis for, any adjustments made to its output. 
Assumptions (Ref: Para. 13(h)(ii)(a)(ii)) 
A40. Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of how management selected the 
assumptions used in making the accounting estimates include, for example:  

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   47A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
 The basis for management’s selection and the documentation supporting the selection of the 
assumption. The applicable financial reporting framework may provide criteria or guidance to be 
used in the selection of an assumption. 
 How management assesses whether the assumptions are relevant and complete. 
 When applicable, how management determines that the assumptions are consistent with each other, 
with those used in other accounting estimates or areas of the entity’s business activities, or with 
other matters that are: 
o Within the control of management (for example, assumptions about the maintenance 
programs that may affect the estimation of an asset’s useful life), and whether they are 
consistent with the entity’s business plans and the external environment; and 
o Outside the control of management (for example, assumptions about interest rates, mortality 
rates or potential judicial or regulatory actions). 
 The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework related to the disclosure of 
assumptions. 
A41. With respect to fair value accounting estimates, assumptions vary in terms of the sources of the data and 
the basis for the judgments to support them, as follows: 
(a) Those that reflect what marketplace participants would use in pricing an asset o r liability, 
developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity.  
(b) Those that reflect the entity’s own judgments about what assumptions marketplace participants 
would use in pricing the asset or liability, developed  based on the best data available in the 
circumstances.  
In practice, however, the distinction between (a) and (b) may not always be apparent and distinguishing 
between them depends on understanding the sources of data and the basis for the judgments that support 
the assumption. Further, it may be necessary for management to select from a number of different 
assumptions used by different marketplace participants.  
A42. Assumptions used in making an accounting estimate are referred to as significant assumpti ons in this 
SLAuS if a reasonable variation in the assumption would materially affect the measurement of the 
accounting estimate.  A sensitivity analysis may be useful in demonstrating the degree to which the 
measurement varies based on one or more assumptions used in making the accounting estimate. 
Inactive or illiquid markets 
A43. When markets are inactive or illiquid, the auditor’s understanding of how management selects 
assumptions may include understanding whether management has: 
 Implemented appropriate policies for adapting the application of the method in such circumstances. 
Such adaptation may include making model adjustments or developing new models that are 
appropriate in the circumstances;  
 Resources with the necessary skills or knowledge to ad apt or develop a model, if necessary on an 
urgent basis, including selecting the valuation technique that is appropriate in such circumstances; 
 The resources to determine the range of outcomes, given the uncertainties involved, for example 
by performing a sensitivity analysis; 
 The means to assess how, when applicable, the deterioration in market conditions has affected the 
entity’s operations, environment and relevant business risks and the implications for the entity’s 
accounting estimates, in such circumstances; and 

<!-- page 48 -->

48A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
 An appropriate understanding of how the price data, and the relevance thereof, from particular 
external information sources may vary in such circumstances.  
Data (Ref: Para. 13(h)(ii)(a)(iii)) 
A44. Matters that the auditor may consider in obtaining an understanding of how management selects the data 
on which the accounting estimates are based include: 
 The nature and source of the data, including information obtained from an external information 
source. 
 How management evaluates whether the data is appropriate. 
 The accuracy and completeness of the data. 
 The consistency of the data used with data used in previous periods. 
 The complexity of the information technology systems used to obtain and process the data, 
including when this involves handling large volumes of data. 
 How the data is obtained, transmitted and processed and how its integrity is maintained.  
How management understands and addresses estimation uncertainty (Ref: Para. 13(h)(ii)(b)–13(h)(ii)(c)) 
A45.  Matters that may b e appropriate for the auditor to consider relating to whether and how management  
understands the degree of estimation uncertainty include, for example: 
 Whether and, if so, how management identified alternative methods, significant assumptions or 
sources of data that are appropriate in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.  
 Whether and, if so, how management considered alternative outcomes by, for example, performing 
a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of changes in the s ignificant assumptions or the data 
used in making the accounting estimate. 
A46. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework may specify the approach to selecting 
management’s point estimate from the reasonably possible measurement outc omes. Financial reporting 
frameworks may recognize that the appropriate amount is one that is appropriately selected from the 
reasonably possible measurement outcomes and, in some cases, may indicate that the most relevant 
amount may be in the central part of that range.  
A47. For example, with respect to fair value estimates, SLFRS 1335 indicates that, if multiple valuation 
techniques are used to measure fair value, the results (i.e., respective indications of fair value) shall be 
evaluated considering the reas onableness of the range of values indicated by those results. A fair value 
measurement is the point within that range that is most representative of fair value in the circumstances. 
In other cases, the applicable financial reporting framework may specify the use of a probability-weighted 
average of the reasonably possible measurement outcomes, or of the measurement amount that is most likely 
or that is more likely than not.  
                                                           
35  SLFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, paragraph 63 

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   49A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
A48.  The applicable financial reporting framework may prescribe disclosures  or disclosure objectives related 
to accounting estimates, and some entities may choose to disclose additional information. These 
disclosures or disclosure objectives may address, for example: 
 The method of estimation used, including any applicable model and the basis for its selection.  
 Information that has been obtained from models, or from other calculations used to determine 
estimates recognized or disclosed in the financial statements, including information relating to the 
underlying data and assumptions used in those models, such as: 
o Assumptions developed internally; or 
o Data, such as interest rates, that are affected by factors outside the control of the entity.  
 The effect of any changes to the method of estimation from the prior period. 
 The sources of estimation uncertainty.  
 Fair value information. 
 Information about sensitivity analyses derived from financial models that demonstrates that 
management has considered alternative assumptions. 
A49.  In some cases, the applicable financial reporting framework may require specific disclosures regarding 
estimation uncertainty, for example:  
 The disclosure of information about the assumptions made about the future and other major sources 
of estimation uncertainty that give rise to a higher likelihood or magnitude of material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities after the period end. Such requirements may be 
described using terms such as “Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty” or “Critical Accounting 
Estimates.” They may relate to accounting estimates that require management’s most difficult, 
subjective or complex judgments. Such judgments may be more subjective and complex, and 
accordingly the potential for a consequential material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities may increase, with the number of items of data and assumptions affecting the 
possible future resolution of the estimation uncertainty. Information that may be disclosed includes: 
o The nature of the assumption or other source of estimation uncertainty; 
o The sensitivity of carrying amounts to the methods and assumptions used, including the 
reasons for the sensitivity; 
o The expected resolution of an uncertainty and the range of reasonably possible outcomes in 
respect of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities affected; and 
o An explanation of changes made to past assumptions concerning those assets and liabilities, 
if the uncertainty remains unresolved. 
 The disclosure of the range of possib le outcomes, and the assumptions used in determining the 
range. 
 The disclosure of specific information, such as: 
o Information regarding the significance of fair value accounting estimates to the entity’s 
financial position and performance; and 
o Disclosures regarding market inactivity or illiquidity. 
 Qualitative disclosures such as the exposures to risk and how they arise, the entity’s objectives, 
policies and procedures for managing the risk and the methods used to measure the risk and any 
changes from the previous period of these qualitative concepts. 

<!-- page 50 -->

50A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
 Quantitative disclosures such as the extent to which the entity is exposed to risk, based on 
information provided internally to the entity’s key management personnel, including credit risk, 
liquidity risk and market risk. 
Control activities relevant to the audit over management’s process for making accounting estimates (Ref: Para 
13(i)) 
A50. The auditor’s judgment in identifying controls relevant to the audit, and therefore the need to evaluate the 
design of those controls and determine whether they have been implemented, relates to management’s 
process described in paragraph 13(h)(ii). The auditor may not identify relevant control activities in relation 
to all the elements of paragraph 13(h)(ii), depending on  the complexity associated with the accounting 
estimate. 
A51. As part of obtaining an understanding of the control activities relevant to the audit, the auditor may 
consider: 
 How management determines the appropriateness of the data used to develop the a ccounting 
estimates, including when management uses an external information source or data from outside 
the general and subsidiary ledgers.  
 The review and approval of accounting estimates, including the assumptions or data used in their 
development, by appropriate levels of management and, where appropriate, those charged with 
governance.  
 The segregation of duties between those responsible for making the accounting estimates and those 
committing the entity to the related transactions, including whethe r the assignment of 
responsibilities appropriately takes account of the nature of the entity and its products or services. 
For example, in the case of a large financial institution, relevant segregation of duties may consist 
of an independent function resp onsible for estimation and validation of fair value pricing of the 
entity’s financial products staffed by individuals whose remuneration is not tied to such products.  
 The effectiveness of the design of the control activities. Generally, it may be more di fficult for 
management to design controls that address subjectivity and estimation uncertainty in a manner 
that effectively prevents, or detects and corrects, material misstatements, than it is to design 
controls that address complexity. Controls that address subjectivity and estimation uncertainty may 
need to include more manual elements, which may be less reliable than automated controls as they 
can be more easily bypassed, ignored or overridden by management. The design effectiveness of 
controls addressi ng complexity may vary depending on the reason for, and the nature of, the 
complexity. For example, it may be easier to design more effective controls related to a method 
that is routinely used or over the integrity of data. 
A52.  When management makes ext ensive use of information technology in making an accounting estimate, 
controls relevant to the audit are likely to include general IT controls and application controls. Such 
controls may address risks related to:  
 Whether the information technology system  has the capability and is appropriately configured to 
process large volumes of data;  
 Complex calculations in applying a method. When diverse systems are required to process complex 
transactions, regular reconciliations between the systems are made, in particular when the systems 
do not have automated interfaces or may be subject to manual intervention;  

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   51A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
 Whether the design and calibration of models is periodically evaluated;  
 The complete and accurate extraction of data regarding accounting estimates from the entity’s 
records or from external information sources;  
 Data, including the complete and accurate flow of data through the entity’s information system, 
the appropriateness of any modification to the data used in making accounting estimates, the 
maintenance of the integrity and security of the data; 
 When using external information sources, risks related to processing or recording the data;  
 Whether management has controls around access, change and maintenance of individual models 
to maintain a strong aud it trail of the accredited versions of models and to prevent unauthorized 
access or amendments to those models; and 
 Whether there are appropriate controls over the transfer of information relating to accounting 
estimates into the general ledger, including appropriate controls over journal entries. 
A53. In some industries, such as banking or insurance, the term governance may be used to describe activities 
within the control environment, monitoring of controls, and other components of internal control, as 
described in SLAuS 315 (Revised).36 
A54. For entities with an internal audit function, its work may be particularly helpful to the auditor in obtaining 
an understanding of:
 
 
 The nature and extent of management’s use of accounting estimates; 
 The design and implementation of control activities that address the risks related to the data, 
assumptions and models used to make the accounting estimates;  
 The aspects of the entity’s information system that generate the data on which the accounting 
estimates are based; and  
 How new risks relating to accounting estimates are identified, assessed and managed.  
Reviewing the Outcome or Re-Estimation of Previous Accounting Estimates (Ref: Para. 14) 
A55. A review of the outcome or re-estimation of previous accounting estimates (retrospective review) assists 
in identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement when previous accounting estimates have 
an outcome through transfer or realization of the asset or liability in the current period, or are re-estimated 
for the purpose of the current period. Through performing a retrospective review, the auditor may obtain: 
 Information regarding the effectiveness of management’s previous estimation process, from which 
the auditor can obtain audit evidence about the likely effectiveness of management’s current 
process. 
 Audit evidence of matters, such as the reasons for changes that may be required to be disclosed in 
the financial statements. 
 Information regard ing the complexity or estimation uncertainty pertaining to the accounting 
estimates. 
 Information regarding the susceptibility of accounting estimates to, or that may be an indicator of, 
possible management bias. The auditor’s professional skepticism assist s in identifying such 
circumstances or conditions and in determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit 
procedures.  
                                                           
36  SLAuS 315 (Revised) paragraph A77 

<!-- page 52 -->

52A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
A56. A retrospective review may provide audit evidence that supports the identification and assessment of the 
risks of material  misstatement in the current period. Such a retrospective review may be performed for 
accounting estimates made for the prior period’s financial statements, or may be performed over several 
periods or a shorter period (such as half -yearly or quarterly). In  some cases, a retrospective review over 
several periods may be appropriate when the outcome of an accounting estimate is resolved over a longer 
period. 
A57. A retrospective review of management judgments and assumptions related to significant accounting 
estimates is required by SLAuS 240.37 As a practical matter, the auditor’s review of previous accounting 
estimates as a risk assessment procedure in accordance with this SLAuS may be carried out in conjunction 
with the review required by SLAuS 240. 
A58. Based on the auditor’s previous assessment of the risks of material misstatement, for example, if inherent 
risk is assessed as higher for one or more risks of material misstatement, the auditor may judge that a 
more detailed retrospective review is required. A s part of the detailed retrospective review, the auditor 
may pay particular attention, when practicable, to the effect of data and significant assumptions used in 
making the previous accounting estimates. On the other hand, for example, for accounting esti mates that 
arise from the recording of routine and recurring transactions, the auditor may judge that the application 
of analytical procedures as risk assessment procedures is sufficient for purposes of the review. 
A59. The measurement objective for fair value accounting estimates and other accounting estimates, based on 
current conditions at the measurement date,  deals with perceptions about value at a point in time, which 
may change significantly and rapidly as the environment in which the entity operates changes. The auditor 
may therefore focus the review on obtaining information that may be relevant to identifying and assessing 
risks of material misstatement. For example, in some cases, obtaining an understanding of changes in 
marketplace participant assumptions that affected the outcome of a previous period’s fair value accounting 
estimates may be unlikely to provide relevant audit evidence. In this case, audit evidence may be obtained 
by understanding the outcomes of assumptions (such as a cash flow pro jections) and understanding the 
effectiveness of management’s prior estimation process that supports the identification and assessment of 
the risk of material misstatement in the current period. 
A60. A difference between the outcome of an accounting estima te and the amount recognized in the previous 
period’s financial statements does not necessarily represent a misstatement of the previous period’s 
financial statements. However, such a difference may represent a misstatement if, for example, the 
difference arises from information that was available to management when the previous period’s financial 
statements were finalized, or that could reasonably be expected to have been obtained and taken into 
account in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.38 Such a difference may call into 
question management’s process for taking information into account in making the accounting estimate. 
As a result, the auditor may reassess control risk and may determine that more persuasive audit evidence 
needs to be obtained about the matter. Many financial reporting frameworks contain guidance on 
distinguishing between changes in accounting estimates that constitute misstatements and changes that do 
not, and the accounting treatment required to be followed in each case. 
                                                           
37  SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph 33(b)(ii) 
38  SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events, paragraph 14 

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   53A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Specialized Skills or Knowledge (Ref: Para. 15) 
A61. Matters that may affect the auditor’s determination of whether the engagement team requires specialized 
skills or knowledge, include, for example:39  
 The nature of the accounting estimates for a particular business or industry (for example, mineral 
deposits, agricultural assets, complex financial instruments, insurance contract liabilities).  
 The degree of estimation uncertainty.  
 The complexity of the method or model used.  
 The complexity of the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework relevant to 
accounting estimates, including whether there are areas known to be subject to differing 
interpretation or practice or areas where there are inconsistencies in how accounting estimates are 
made.  
 The procedures the auditor intends to undertake in responding to assessed risks of material 
misstatement. 
 The need for judgment about matters not specified by the applicable financial reporting framework. 
 The degree of judgment needed to select data and assumptions. 
 The complexity and extent of the entity’s use of information technology in making accounting 
estimates.  
The nature, timing and extent of the involvement of individuals with specialized skills and knowledge 
may vary throughout the audit.  
A62. The auditor may not possess the specialized skills or knowledge necessary when the matter involved is in 
a field other than accounting or auditing (for example, valuation skills) and may need to use an auditor’s 
expert.40 
A63. Many accounting estimates do not require the application of specialized skills or knowledge. For example, 
specialized skills or knowledge may not be needed for a simple inventory obsolescence calculation . 
However, for example, for expected credit losses of a banking institution or an insurance contract liability 
for an insurance entity, the auditor is likely to conclude that it is necessary to apply specialized skills or 
knowledge. 
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 4, 16) 
A64.  Identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement at the assertion level relating to accounting 
estimates is important for all acc ounting estimates, including not only those that are recognized in the 
financial statements, but also those that are included in the notes to the financial statements.  
A65. Paragraph A42 of SLAuS 200 states that the SLAuSs do not ordinarily refer to inher ent risk and control 
risk separately. However, this SLAuS requires a separate assessment of inherent risk and control risk to 
provide a basis for designing and performing further audit procedures to respond to the risks of material 
misstatement, including significant risks, at the assertion level for accounting estimates in accordance 
with SLAuS 330.41 
                                                           
39  SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements , paragraph 14 and SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial 
Statements, paragraph 8(e) 
40  SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert 
41 SLAuS 330, paragraph 7(b) 

<!-- page 54 -->

54A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
A66.  In identifying the risks of material misstatement and in  assessing inherent risk, the auditor is required to 
take into account the degree to which the a ccounting estimate is subject to, or affected by, estimation 
uncertainty, complexity, subjectivity, or other inherent risk factors. The auditor’s consideration of the 
inherent risk factors may also provide information to be used in determining:  
 Where inherent risk is assessed on the spectrum of inherent risk; and 
 The reasons for the assessment given to the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level, 
and that the auditor’s further audit procedures in accordance with paragraph 18 are responsive to 
those reasons.  
The interrelationships between the inherent risk factors are further explained in Appendix 1. 
A67.  The reasons for the auditor’s assessment of inherent risk at the assertion level may result from one or more 
of the inherent risk factors of estimation uncertainty, complexity, subjectivity or other inherent risk factors. 
For example:  
(a) Accounting estimates of expected credit losses are likely to be complex because the expected credit 
losses cannot be directly observed and may require the use of a complex model. The model may 
use a complex set of historical data and assumptions about future developments in a  variety of 
entity specific scenarios that may be difficult to predict. Accounting estimates for expected credit 
losses are also likely to be subject to high estimation uncertainty and significant subjectivity in 
making judgments about future events or con ditions. Similar considerations apply to insurance 
contract liabilities.  
(b) An accounting estimate for an obsolescence provision for an entity with a wide range of different 
inventory types may require complex systems and processes, but may involve little su bjectivity 
and the degree of estimation uncertainty may be low, depending on the nature of the inventory.  
(c) Other accounting estimates may not be complex to make but may have high estimation uncertainty 
and require significant judgment, for example, an accounting estimate that requires a single critical 
judgment about a liability, the amount of which is contingent on the outcome of the litigation.  
A68. The relevance and significance of inherent risk factors may vary from one estimate to another. 
Accordingly, the inherent risk factors may, either individually or in combination, affect simple accounting 
estimates to a lesser degree and the auditor may identify fewer risks or assess inherent risk at the lower 
end of the spectrum of inherent risk. 
A69. Conversely, the inherent risk factors may, either individually or in combination, affect complex accounting 
estimates to a greater degree, and may lead the auditor to assess inherent risk at the higher end of the 
spectrum of inherent risk. For these accounting estimates, the auditor’s consideration of the effects of the 
inherent risk factors is likely to directly affect the number and nature of identified risks of material 
misstatement, the assessment of such risks, and ultimately the persuasiveness of the audit evidence needed 
in responding to the assessed risks.  Also, for these accounting estimates the auditor’s application of 
professional skepticism may be particularly important.  
A70. Events occurring after the date of the financial statements may provide additional information relevant to 
the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level. For example, the 
outcome of an accounting estimate may become known during the audit. In such cases, the auditor may 
assess or revise the assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level, 42 regardless of 
                                                           
42  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 31 

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   55A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
the degree to which the accounting estimate was subject to, or affected by estimation uncertainty, 
complexity, subjectivity or other inherent risk factors. Events occu rring after the date of the financial 
statements also may influence the auditor’s selection of the approach to testing the accounting estimate in 
accordance with paragraph 18. For example, for a simple bonus accrual that is based on a straightforward 
percentage of compensation for selected employees, the auditor may conclude that there is relatively little 
complexity or subjectivity in making the accounting estimate, and therefore may assess inherent risk at 
the assertion level at the lower end of the spect rum of inherent risk. The payment of the bonuses 
subsequent to period end may provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks 
of material misstatement at the assertion level.  
A71.  The auditor’s assessment of control risk may be  done in different ways depending on preferred audit 
techniques or methodologies. The control risk assessment may be expressed using qualitative categories 
(for example, control risk assessed as maximum, moderate, minimum) or in terms of the auditor’s 
expectation of how effective the control(s) is in addressing the identified risk, that is, the planned reliance 
on the effective operation of controls. For example, if control risk is assessed as maximum, the auditor 
contemplates no reliance on the effective o peration of controls. If control risk is assessed at less than 
maximum, the auditor contemplates reliance on the effective operation of controls.  
Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: Para. 16(a)) 
A72. In taking into account the degree to which the accounting estimate is subject to estimation uncertainty, the 
auditor may consider:  
 Whether the applicable financial reporting framework requires: 
o The use of a method to make the accounting estimate that inherently has a high level of 
estimation uncertainty. For example, the financial reporting framework may require the use 
of unobservable inputs. 
o The use of assumptions that inherently have a high level of estimation uncertainty, such as 
assumptions with a long forecast period, assumptions that are based on data that is 
unobservable and are therefore difficult for management to develop, or the use of various 
assumptions that are interrelated. 
o Disclosures about estimation uncertainty. 
 The business environment. An entity may be active in a market that experiences turmoil or possible 
disruption (for example, from major currency movements or inactive markets) and the accounting 
estimate may therefore be dependent on data that is not readily observable. 
 Whether it is possible (or practicable, insofar as permitted by the applica ble financial reporting 
framework) for management:  
o To make a precise and reliable prediction about the future realization of a past transaction 
(for example, the amount that will be paid under a contingent contractual term), or about the 
incidence and imp act of future events or conditions (for example, the amount of a future 
credit loss or the amount at which an insurance claim will be settled and the timing of its 
settlement); or 
o To obtain precise and complete information about a present condition (for example, 
information about valuation attributes that would reflect the perspective of market 
participants at the date of the financial statements, to develop a fair value estimate).  
A73.  The size of the amount recognized or disclosed in the financial stat ements for an accounting estimate is 
not, in itself, an indicator of its susceptibility to misstatement because, for example, the accounting 
estimate may be understated.  

<!-- page 56 -->

56A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
A74. In some circumstances, the estimation uncertainty may be so high that a reasonab le accounting estimate 
cannot be made. The applicable financial reporting framework may preclude recognition of an item in the 
financial statements, or its measurement at fair value. In such cases, there may be risks of material 
misstatement that relate no t only to whether an accounting estimate should be recognized, or whether it 
should be measured at fair value, but also to the reasonableness of the disclosures. With respect to such 
accounting estimates, the applicable financial reporting framework may re quire disclosure of the 
accounting estimates and the estimation uncertainty associated with them (see paragraphs A112 –A113, 
A143–A144).  
A75. In some cases, the estimation uncertainty relating to an accounting estimate may cast significant doubt 
about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. SLAuS 570 (Revised)43 establishes requirements 
and provides guidance in such circumstances. 
Complexity or Subjectivity (Ref: Para. 16(b)) 
The Degree to Which Complexity Affects the Selection and Application of the Method  
A76. In taking into account the degree to which the selection and application of the method used in making the 
accounting estimate are affected by complexity, the auditor may consider:  
 The need for specialized skills or knowledge by manageme nt which may indicate that the method 
used to make an accounting estimate is inherently complex and therefore the accounting estimate 
may have a greater susceptibility to material misstatement. There may be a greater susceptibility 
to material misstatement  when management has developed a model internally and has relatively 
little experience in doing so, or uses a model that applies a method that is not established or 
commonly used in a particular industry or environment. 
 The nature of the measurement basis required by the applicable financial reporting framework, 
which may result in the need for a complex method that requires multiple sources of historical and 
forward-looking data or assumptions, with multiple interrelationships between them. For example, 
an expected credit loss provision may require judgments about future credit repayments and other 
cash flows, based on consideration of historical experience data and the application of forward 
looking assumptions. Similarly, the valuation of an insurance con tract liability may require 
judgments about future insurance contract payments to be projected based on historical experience 
and current and assumed future trends. 
The Degree to Which Complexity Affects the Selection and Application of the Data  
A77. In taking into account the degree to which the selection and application of the data used in making the 
accounting estimate are affected by complexity, the auditor may consider: 
 The complexity of the process to derive the data, taking into account the relevanc e and reliability 
of the data source. Data from certain sources may be more reliable than from others. Also, for 
confidentiality or proprietary reasons , some external information  sources will not (or not fully) 
disclose information that may be relevant in considering the reliability of the data they provide, 
such as the sources of the underlying data they used or how it was accumulated and processed . 
                                                           
43  SLAuS 570, (Revised), Going Concern 

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   57A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
 The inherent complexity in maintaining the integrity of the data. When there is a high volume of 
data and multiple sources of data, there may be inherent complexity in maintaining the integrity of 
data that is used to make an accounting estimate. 
 The need to interpret complex contractual terms. For example, the determination of cash inflows 
or outflows arising from a commercial supplier or customer rebates may depend on very complex 
contractual terms that require specific experience or competence to understand or interpret.  
The Degree to Which Subjectivity Affects the Selection and Application of the Method, Assumptions or Data 
A78. In taking into account the degree to which the selection and application of method, assumptions or data 
are affected by subjectivity, the auditor may consider: 
 The degree to which the applicable financial reporting framework does not specify the valuation 
approaches, concepts, techniques and factors to use in the estimation method.  
 The uncertainty regarding the amount or timing, including the length of the forec ast period. The 
amount and timing are a source of inherent estimation uncertainty, and give rise to the need for 
management judgment in selecting a point estimate, which in turn creates an opportunity for 
management bias. For example, an accounting estimat e that incorporates forward looking 
assumptions may have a high degree of subjectivity which may be susceptible to management bias. 
Other Inherent Risk Factors (Ref: Para. 16(b)) 
A79. The degree of subjectivity associated with an accounting estimate influe nces the susceptibility of the 
accounting estimate to misstatement due to management bias or fraud. For example, when an accounting 
estimate is subject to a high degree of subjectivity, the accounting estimate is likely to be more susceptible 
to misstateme nt due to management bias or fraud and this may result in a wide range of possible 
measurement outcomes. Management may select a point estimate from that range that is inappropriate in 
the circumstances, or that is inappropriately influenced by unintention al or intentional management bias, 
and that is therefore misstated. For continuing audits, indicators of possible management bias identified 
during the audit of preceding periods may influence the planning and risk assessment procedures in the 
current period. 
Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 17) 
A80. The auditor’s assessment of inherent risk, which takes into account the degree to which an accounting 
estimate is subject to, or affected by estimation uncertainty, complexity, subjectivity or other inherent risk 
factors, assists the auditor in determining whether any of the risks of material misstatement identified and 
assessed are a significant risk.  
Responses to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement  
The Auditor’ s Further Audit Procedures (Ref: Para. 18) 
A81.  In designing and performing further audit procedures the auditor may use any of the three testing 
approaches (individually or in combination) listed in paragraph 18. For example, when several 
assumptions are used to make an accounting estimate, the a uditor may decide to use a different testing 
approach for each assumption tested.  
Obtaining Relevant Audit Evidence Whether Corroborative or Contradictory 
A82.  Audit evidence comprises both information that supports and corroborates management’s assertions, and 
any information that contradicts such assertions. 44 Obtaining audit evidence in an unbiased manner may 
                                                           
44  SLAuS 500, paragraph A1 

<!-- page 58 -->

58A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
involve obtaining evidence from multiple sources within and outside the entity. However, the auditor is 
not required to perform an exhaustive search to identify all possible sources of audit evidence.  
A83.  SLAuS 330 requires the auditor to obtain more persuasive audit evidence the higher the auditor’s 
assessment of the risk.45 Therefore, the consideration of the nature or quantity of the audit evid ence may 
be more important when inherent risks relating to an accounting estimate is assessed at the higher end of 
the spectrum of inherent risk. 
Scalability 
A84. The nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s further audit procedures are affected by, for example: 
 The assessed risks of material misstatement, which affect the persuasiveness of the audit evidence 
needed and influence the approach the auditor selects to audit an accounting estimate. For example, 
the assessed risks of material misstatement relating to the existence or valuation assertions may be 
lower for a straightforward accrual for bonuses that are paid to employees shortly after period end. 
In this situation, it may be more practical for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence by evaluating events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report, rather than through 
other testing approaches.  
 The reasons for the assessed risks of material misstatement.  
When the Auditor Intends to Rely on the Operating Effectiveness of Relevant Controls (Ref: Para: 19) 
A85.  Testing the operating effectiveness of relevant controls may be appropriate when inherent risk is assessed 
as higher on the spectrum of inherent risk, including for significant risks. This may be the case when the 
accounting estimate is subject to or affected by a high degree of complexity. When the accounting estimate 
is affected by a high degree of subjectivity, and therefore requires significant judgment by management, 
inherent limitations in the effectiveness of the design of controls may lead the audit or to focus more on 
substantive procedures than on testing the operating effectiveness of controls.  
A86.  In determining the nature, timing and extent of testing of the operating effectiveness of controls relating 
to accounting estimates, the auditor may consider factors such as: 
 The nature, frequency and volume of transactions;  
 The effectiveness of the design of the controls, including whether controls are appropriately 
designed to respond to the assessed inherent risk, and the strength of governance;  
 The importance of particular controls to the overall control objectives and processes in place at the 
entity, including the sophistication of the information system to support transactions;  
 The monitoring of controls and identified deficiencies in internal control; 
 The nature of the risks the controls are intended to address, for example, controls related to the 
exercise of judgment compared with controls over supporting data;  
 The competency of those involved in the control activities;  
 The frequency of performance of the control activities; and  
 The evidence of performance of control activities. 
                                                           
45  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 7(b) and A19 

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   59A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Substantive Procedures Alone Cannot Provide Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence  
A87.  In some industries, such as the financial services industry, management makes extensive use of IT to 
conduct business . I t may therefore be more likely that there are risks related to certain accounting 
estimates for which substantive procedures alone cannot provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  
A88. Circumstances when risks for which substantive procedures alone cannot provide sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence at the assertion level may exist include: 
 When controls are necessary to mitigate risks relating to the initiation, recording, processing, or 
reporting of information obtained from outside of the general and subsidiary ledgers.  
 Information supporting one or more assertions is electronically initiated, recorded, processed, or 
reported. This is likely to be the case when there is a high volume of transactions or data, or a 
complex model is used, requiring the extensive use of information technology to ensure the accuracy 
and completeness of the information. A complex expected credit loss provision may be required for 
a financial institution or utility entity. F or example, in the case of a utility entity, the data used in 
developing the expected credit loss provision may comprise many small balances resulting from a 
high volume of transactions. In these circumstances, the auditor may conclude that sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence cannot be obtained without testing controls around the model used to 
develop the expected credit loss provision. 
In such cases, the sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit evidence may depend on the effectiveness 
of controls over the accuracy and completeness of the information.  
A89. As part of the audit of the financial statements for certain entities (such as a bank or insurer), the auditor 
also may be required by law or regulation to undertake additional procedures in relatio n to, or to provide 
an assurance conclusion on, internal control. In these and other similar circumstances, the auditor may be 
able to use information obtained in performing such procedures as audit evidence, subject to determining 
whether subsequent changes have occurred that may affect its relevance to the audit. 
Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 20) 
A90.  When the auditor’s further audit procedures in response to a significant risk consist only of substantive 
procedures, SLAuS 33046 requires that those procedures include tests of details. Such tests of details may 
be designed and performed under each of the approaches described in paragraph 18 of this SLAuS based 
on the auditor’s professional judgment in the circumstances. Examples o f tests of details for significant 
risks related to accounting estimates include: 
 Examination, for example, examining contracts to corroborate terms or assumptions.  
 Recalculation, for example, verifying the mathematical accuracy of a model. 
 Agreeing assump tions used to supporting documentation, such as third -party published 
information. 
Obtaining Audit Evidence from Events Occurring up to the Date of the Auditor’ s Report (Ref: Para. 21) 
A91.  In some circumstances, obtaining audit evidence from  events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s 
report may provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence to address the risks of material misstatement. For 
example, sale of the complete inventory of a discontinued product shortly after the period end may provide 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to the estimate of its net realizable value at the period end. 
                                                           
46  SLAuS 330, paragraph 21 

<!-- page 60 -->

60A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
In other cases, it may be necessary to use this testing approach in connection with another approach in 
paragraph 18. 
A92.  For some acco unting estimates, events occurring up to the date of the auditor’s report are unlikely to 
provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the accounting estimate. For example, the 
conditions or events relating to some accounting estimates develop o nly over an extended period. Also, 
because of the measurement objective of fair value accounting estimates, information after the period-end 
may not reflect the events or conditions existing at the balance sheet date and therefore may not be relevant 
to the measurement of the fair value accounting estimate. 
A93.  Even if the auditor decides not to undertake this testing approach in respect of specific accounting 
estimates, the auditor is required to comply with SLAuS 560. SLAuS 560 requires the auditor to perform 
audit procedures designed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that all events occurring between 
the date of the financial statements and the date of the auditor’s report that require adjustment of, or 
disclosure in, the financial stateme nts have been identified 47 and appropriately reflected in the financial 
statements.48 Because the measurement of many accounting estimates, other than fair value accounting 
estimates, usually depends on the outcome of future conditions, transactions or events, the auditor’s work 
under SLAuS 560 is particularly relevant. 
Testing How Management Made the Accounting Estimate (Ref. Para. 22) 
A94. Testing how management made the accounting estimate may be an appropriate approach when, for 
example: 
 The auditor’s review of similar accounting estimates made in the prior period financial statements 
suggests that management’s current period process is appropriate.  
 The accounting estimate is based on a large population of items of a similar nature that individually 
are not significant.  
 The applicable financial reporting framework specifies how management is expected to make the 
accounting estimate. For example, this may be the case for an expected credit loss provision.  
 The accounting estimate is derived from the routine processing of data. 
Testing how management made the accounting estimate may also be an appropriate approach when 
neither of the other testing approaches is practical to perform, or may be an appropriate approach in 
combination with one of the other testing approaches.  
Changes in Methods, Significant Assumptions and the Data from Prior Periods (Ref: Para. 23(a), 24(a), 25(a))  
A95.  When a change from prior periods in a method, significant assumption, or the data is not based on new 
circumstances or new information, or when significant assumptions are inconsistent with each other and 
with those used in other accounting estimates, or with related assumptions used in other areas of the 
entity’s business activities, the auditor may need to have further discussio ns with management about the 
circumstances and, in doing so, challenge management regarding the appropriateness of the assumptions 
used.  
                                                           
47  SLAuS 560, paragraph 6 
48  SLAuS 560, paragraph 8 

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   61A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Indicators of Management Bias (Ref: Para. 23(b), 24(b), 25(b)) 
A96.   When the auditor identifies indicators of possible management bias, the auditor may need a further 
discussion with management and may need to reconsider whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
has been obtained that the method, assumptions and data used were appropriate and supportable in the 
circumstances. An example of an indicator of management bias for a particular accounting estimate may 
be when management has developed an appropriate range for several different assumptions, and in each 
case the assumption used was from the end of the range that resulted in the most favorable measurement 
outcome. 
Methods  
The selection of the method (Ref: Para. 23(a))  
A97.  Relevant considerations for the auditor regarding the appropriateness of the method selected in the context 
of the applicable financial reporting framework, and, if applicable, the appropriateness of changes from 
the prior period may include: 
 Whether management’s rationale for the method selected is appropriate; 
 Whether the method is appropriate in the circumstances given the nature of the accounting estimate, 
the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, other available valuation 
concepts or techniques, regulatory requirements, and the business, industry and environment in 
which the entity operates; 
 When management has determined that different methods result in a range of significantly different 
estimates, how management has investigated the reasons for these differences; and  
 Whether the change is based on new circumstances or new information. When this is not the case, 
the change may not be reasonable or in compliance with the applicable financial reporting 
framework. Arbitrary changes result in inconsistent financial statements over time and may give 
rise to financial statement misstatements or may be an indicator of possible management bias. (see 
also paragraphs A133–A136) 
These matters are important when the applicable financial reporting framework does not prescribe the 
method of measurement or allows multiple methods.  
Complex modelling (Ref: Para. 23(d)) 
A98.  A model, and the related method, is more likely to be complex when: 
 Understanding and applying the method, including designing the model and selecting and using 
appropriate data and assumptions, requires specialized skills or knowledge; 
 It is difficult to obtain data needed for use in the model because there are restrictions on the 
availability or observability of, or access to, data; or 
 It is difficult to maintain the integrity (e.g., accuracy, consistency, or completeness) of the data and 
assumptions in using the model due to multiple valuation attributes, multiple relationships between 
them, or multiple iterations of the calculation. 
A99.  Matters that the auditor may consider when management uses a comp lex model include, for example, 
whether: 
 The model is validated prior to usage or when there has been a change to the model, with periodic 
reviews to ensure it is still suitable for its intended use. The entity’s validation process may include 
evaluation of: 

<!-- page 62 -->

62A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
o The model’s theoretical soundness; 
o The model’s mathematical integrity; 
o The accuracy and completeness of the model’s data and assumptions; and  
o The model’s output as compared to actual transactions. 
 Appropriate change control policies and procedures exist. 
 Management uses appropriate skills and knowledge in using the model.  
These considerations may also be useful for a method that does not involve complex modelling.  
A100. Management may make adjustments to the output of the model to meet the requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting framework. In some industries these adjustments are referred to as overlays. In the 
case of fair value accounting estimates, it may be relevant to consider whether adjustments to the output 
of the model, if any, reflect the assumptions marketplace participants would use in similar circumstances.  
Maintenance of integrity of significant assumptions and the data used in applying the method  (Ref: Para. 23(e)) 
A101. Maintaining the integrity of significant assumptions and the data in applying the method refers to the 
maintenance of the accuracy and completeness of the data and assumptions through all stages of 
information processing. A failure to maintain such integrity may result in corruption of the data and 
assumptions and may give rise to misstatements. In this regard, relevant considerations for the auditor 
may include whether the data and assumptions are subject to all changes intended by management, and 
not subject to any unintended changes, during activities such as input, storage, retrieval, transmission or 
processing. 
Significant Assumptions (Ref: Para. 24) 
A102. Relevant considerations for the auditor regarding the appropriateness of the significant assumptions in the 
context of the applicable financial reporting framework, and, if applicable, the appropriateness of changes 
from the prior period may include: 
 Management’s rationale for the selection of the assumption;  
 Whether the assumption is appropriate in the circumstances given the nature of the accounting 
estimate, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, and the business, 
industry and environment in which the entity operates; and 
 Whether a change from prior periods in selecting an assumption is based on new circumstances or 
new information. When it is not, the change may not be reasonable nor in compliance with the 
applicable financial reporting framework. Arbitrary changes in an accounting estimate may give 
rise to material misstatements of the financial statements or may be an indicato r of possible 
management bias (see paragraphs A133–A136). 
A103. Management may evaluate alternative assumptions or outcomes of accounting estimates, which may be 
accomplished through a number of approaches depending on the circumstances. One possible appro ach 
is a sensitivity analysis. This might involve determining how the monetary amount of an accounting 
estimate varies with different assumptions. Even for accounting estimates measured at fair value, there 
may be variation because different market partici pants will use different assumptions. A sensitivity 
analysis may lead to the development of a number of outcome scenarios, sometimes characterized as a 
range of outcomes by management, and including ‘pessimistic’ and ‘optimistic’ scenarios.  

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   63A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
A104. Through the knowledge obtained in performing the audit, the auditor may become aware of or may have 
obtained an understanding of assumptions used in other areas of the entity’s business. Such matters may 
include, for example, business prospects, assumptions in strategy documents and future cash flows. Also, 
if the engagement partner has performed other engagements for the entity, SLAuS 315 (Revised) 49 
requires the engagement partner to consider whether information obtained from those other engagements 
is relevant to identifying risks of material misstatement. This information may also be useful to consider 
in addressing whether significant assumptions are consistent with each other and with those used in other 
accounting estimates.  
A105. The appropriateness of the s ignificant assumptions in the context of the requirements of the applicable 
financial reporting framework may depend on management’s intent and ability to carry out certain courses 
of action. Management often documents plans and intentions relevant to spec ific assets or liabilities and 
the applicable financial reporting framework may require management to do so. The nature and extent of 
audit evidence to be obtained about management’s intent and ability is a matter of professional judgment. 
When applicable, the auditor’s procedures may include the following: 
 Review of management’s history of carrying out its stated intentions. 
 Inspection of written plans and other documentation, including, when applicable, formally 
approved budgets, authorizations or minutes. 
 Inquiry of management about its reasons for a particular course of action.  
 Review of events occurring subsequent to the date of the financial statements and up to the date of 
the auditor’s report. 
 Evaluation of the entity’s ability to carry out a particu lar course of action given the entity’s 
economic circumstances, including the implications of its existing commitments and legal, 
regulatory, or contractual restrictions that could affect the feasibility of management’s actions.  
 Consideration of whether management has met the applicable documentation requirements, if any, 
of the applicable financial reporting framework. 
Certain financial reporting frameworks, however, may not permit management’s intentions or plans to be 
taken into account when making an accounting estimate. This is often the case for fair value accounting 
estimates because their measurement objective requires that significant assumptions reflect those used by 
marketplace participants. 
Data (Ref: Para. 25(a)) 
A106. Relevant considerations for the auditor regarding the appropriateness of the data selected for use in the 
context of the applicable financial reporting framework, and, if applicable, the appropriateness of the 
changes from the prior period may include: 
 Management’s rationale for the selection of the data; 
 Whether the data is appropriate in the circumstances given the nature of the accounting estimate, 
the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, and the business, industry and 
environment in which the entity operates; and 
 Whether the change from prior periods in the sources or items of data selected or data selected, is 
based on new circumstances or new information. When it is not, it is unlikely to be reasonable nor 
in compliance with the applicable financial r eporting framework. Arbitrary changes in an 
accounting estimate result in inconsistent financial statements over time and may give rise to 
                                                           
49  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 8 

<!-- page 64 -->

64A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
financial statement misstatements or may be an indicator of possible management bias (see 
paragraphs A133–A136). 
Relevance and reliability of the data (Ref: Para. 25(c)) 
A107. When using information produced by the entity, SLAuS 500 requires the auditor to evaluate whether the 
information is sufficiently reliable for the auditor’s purposes, including as necessary in the circumstances, 
to obtain audit evidence about the accuracy and completeness of the information and evaluating w hether 
the information is sufficiently precise and detailed for the auditor’s purposes.50 
Complex legal or contractual terms (Ref: Para. 25(d)) 
A108. Procedures that the auditor may consider when the accounting estimate is based on complex legal or 
contractual terms include: 
 Considering whether specialized skills or knowledge are needed to understand or interpret the 
contract; 
 Inquiring of the entity’s legal counsel regarding the legal or contractual terms; and  
 Inspecting the underlying contracts to: 
o Evaluate, the underlying business purpose for the transaction or agreement; and  
o Consider whether the terms of the contracts are consistent with management’s explanations. 
Management’s Selection of a Point Estimate and Related Disclosures about Estimation Uncertainty  
Management’s steps to understand and address estimation uncertainty (Ref: Para. 26(a)) 
A109. Relevant considerations regarding  whether management has taken appropriate steps to understand and 
address estimation uncertainty may include whether management has: 
(a) Understood the estimation uncertainty, through identifying the sources, and assessing the degree 
of inherent variability in the measurement outcomes and the resulting range of reasonably possible 
measurement outcomes; 
(b) Identified the degree to which, in the measurement process, complexity or subjectivity affect the 
risk of material misstatement, and addressed the resulting potential for misstatement through 
applying: 
(i) Appropriate skills and knowledge in making accounting estimates; and 
(ii) Professional judgment, including by identifying and addressing susceptibility to 
management bias; and 
(c) Addressed estimation uncertainty through appropriately selecting management’s point estimate and 
related disclosures that describe the estimation uncertainty.  
                                                           
50  SLAuS 500, paragraph 9 

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   65A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
The selection of management’s point estimate and related disclosures of estimation uncertainty (Ref: Para. 
26(b)) 
A110. Matters that may be relevant regarding the selection of management’s point estimate and the development 
of related disclosures about estimation uncertainty include whether:  
 The methods and data used were selected appropriately, including when alternative methods for 
making the accounting estimate and alternative sources of data were available.  
 Valuation attributes used were appropriate and complete. 
 The assumptions used were selected from a range of reasonably possible amounts and were 
supported by appropriate data that is relevant and reliable. 
 The data used was appropriate, relevant and reliable, and the integrity of that data was maintained. 
 The calculations were applied in accordance with the method and were mathematically accurate.  
 Management’s point estimate is appropriately chosen from the reasonably possible measurement 
outcomes. 
 The related disclosures appropriately describe the amount as an estimate and explain the nature and 
limitations of the estimation process, including the variability of the reasonably possible 
measurement outcomes. 
A111. Relevant considerations for the auditor regarding the appropriateness  of management’s point estimate, 
may include: 
 When the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework prescribe the point estimate 
that is to be used after consideration of the alternative outcomes and assumptions, or prescribes a 
specific me asurement method , whether management has followed the requirements of the 
applicable financial reporting framework. 
 When the applicable financial reporting framework has not specified how to select an amount from 
reasonably possible measurement outcomes, whether management has exercised judgment, taking 
into account the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.  
A112. Relevant considerations for the auditor regarding management’s disclosures about estimation uncertainty 
include the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, which may require disclosures: 
 That describe the amount as an estimate and explain the nature and limitations of the process for 
making it, including the variability in reasonably possible measurement outcomes. The framework 
also may require additional disclosures to meet a disclosure objective.51  
 About significant accounting policies related to accounting estimates. Depending on the 
circumstances, relevant accounting policies may include matters such as the specific principles, 
bases, conventions, rules and practices applied in preparing and presenting accounting estimates in 
the financial statements. 
 About significant or critical judgments (for example, those that had the most significant effect on 
the amounts recognized in the financial statements) as well as significant forward -looking 
assumptions or other sources of estimation uncertainty. 
 In certain circumstances, additional disclosures beyond those explicitly required by the financial reporting 
framework may be needed in order to achieve fair presentation, or in the case of a compliance framework, 
for the financial statements not to be misleading. 
                                                           
51  SLFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, paragraph 92 

<!-- page 66 -->

66A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
A113. The greater the degree to which an accounting estimate is subject to estimation uncertainty, the more likely 
the risks of material misstatement will be assessed as higher and therefore the more persuasive the audit 
evidence needs to be to determine, in accordance with paragraph 35, whether management’s point estimate 
and related disclosures about es timation uncertainty are reasonable in the context of the applicable 
financial reporting framework, or are misstated. 
A114. If the auditor’s consideration of estimation uncertainty associated with an accounting estimate, and its 
related disclosure, is a matter that required significant auditor attention, then this may constitute a key 
audit matter.52 
When Management Has Not Taken Appropriate Steps to Understand and Address Estimation Uncertainty (Ref: 
Para. 27)  
A115. When the auditor determines that management has not taken appropriate steps to understand and address 
estimation uncertainty, additional procedures that the audito r may request management to perform to 
understand estimation uncertainty may include, for example, consideration of alternative assumptions or 
the performance of a sensitivity analysis.  
A116. In considering whether it is practicable to develop a point estimate or range, matters the auditor may need 
to take into account include whether the auditor could do so without compromising independence 
requirements. This may include relevant ethical requirements that address prohibitions on assuming 
management responsibilities. 
A117. If, after considering management’s response, the auditor determines that it is not practicable to develop 
an auditor’s point estimate or range, the auditor is required to evaluate the implications for the audit or 
the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements in accordance with paragraph 34. 
Developing an Auditor’ s Point Estimate or Using an Auditor’ s Range (Ref: Para. 28–29) 
A118. Developing an auditor’s point estimate or range to evaluate management’s point estimate and related 
disclosures about estimation uncertainty may be an appropriate approach when, for example:  
 The auditor’s review of similar accounting estimates made in the prior period financial statements 
suggests that management’s current period process is not expected to be effective.  
 The entity’s controls within and over management’s process for making accounting estimates are 
not well designed or properly implemented.  
 Events or transactions between the period end and the date of the auditor’s report have not been 
properly taken into account, when it is appropriate for management to do so, and such events or 
transactions appear to contradict management’s point estimate.  
 There are appropriate alternative assumptions or sources of relevant data that can be used in 
developing an auditor’s point estimate or a range.  
 Management has not taken appropriate steps to understand or address the estimation uncertainty 
(see paragraph 27). 
A119. The decision to develop a point estimate or range also may be influenced by the applica ble financial 
reporting framework, which may prescribe the point estimate that is to be used after consideration of the 
                                                           
52  SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report 

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   67A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
alternative outcomes and assumptions, or prescribe a specific measurement method (for example, the use 
of a discounted probability-weighted expected value, or the most likely outcome). 
A120. The auditor’s decision as to whether to develop a point estimate rather than a range may depend on the 
nature of the estimate and the auditor’s judgment in the circumstances. For example, the nature of  the 
estimate may be such that there is expected to be less variability in the reasonably possible outcomes. In 
these circumstances, developing a point estimate may be an effective approach, particularly when it can 
be developed with a higher degree of precision. 
A121. The auditor may develop a point estimate or a range in a number of ways, for example, by:  
 Using a different model than the one used by management, for example, one that is commercially 
available for use in a particular sector or industry, or a proprietary or auditor-developed model. 
 Using management’s model but developing alternative assumptions or data sources to those used 
by management. 
 Using the auditor’s own method but developing alternative assumptions to those used by 
management.  
 Employing or engaging a person with specialized expertise to develop or execute a model, or to 
provide relevant assumptions.  
 Consideration of other comparable conditions, transactions or events, or, where relevant, markets 
for comparable assets or liabilities. 
A122. The auditor also may develop a point estimate or range for only part of the accounting estimate (for 
example, for a particular assumption, or when only a certain part of the accounting estimate is giving rise 
to the risk of material misstatement). 
A123. When using the auditor’s own methods, assumptions or data to develop a point estimate or range, the 
auditor may obtain evidence about the appropriateness of management’s methods, assumptions or data. 
For example, if the auditor uses the auditor’s own assumptions in developing a range to evaluate the 
reasonableness of management’s point estimate, the auditor may also develop a view about whether 
management’s judgments in selecting the significant assumptions used in making the accounting estimate 
give rise to indicators of possible management bias.  
A124. The requirement in paragraph 29(a) for the auditor to determine that the range includes only amounts that 
are supported by sufficient appropriate audit evidence does not mean that the auditor is expected to obtain 
audit evidence to support each possible outcome in the range individually. Rather, the auditor is likely to 
obtain evidence to determine that the points at both ends of the range are reasonable in the circumstances, 
thereby supporting that amounts falling between those two points also are reasonable. 
A125.The size of the auditor’s range may be multiples of materiality for the financial statements as a whole, 
particularly when materiality is based on operating results (for example, pre-tax income) and this measure 
is relatively small in relation to assets or other balance sheet measures. This situation is more likely to 
arise in circumstances when the estimation uncertainty associated with the accounting estimate is itself 
multiples of materiality, which is more common for certain types of accounting estimates or in certain 
industries, such as insurance or banking, where a high degree of estimation uncertainty is more typical 
and there may be specific requirements in the applicable financial report ing framework in that regard. 
Based on the procedures performed and audit evidence obtained in accordance with the requirements of 
this SLAuS, the auditor may conclude that a range that is multiples of materiality is, in the auditor’s 
judgment, appropriate  in the circumstances. When this is the case, the auditor’s evaluation of the 
reasonableness of the disclosures about estimation uncertainty becomes increasingly important, 
particularly whether such disclosures appropriately convey the high degree of estimation uncertainty and 

<!-- page 68 -->

68A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
the range of possible outcomes. Paragraphs A139 –A144 include additional considerations that may be 
relevant in these circumstances. 
Other Considerations Relating to Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 30) 
A126. Information to be used as audit evidence, regarding risks of material misstatement relating to accounting 
estimates, may have been produced by the entity, prepared using the work of a management’s expert, or 
provided by an external information source.  
External Information Sources 
A127. As explained in SLAuS 500,53 the reliability of information from an external information source is 
influenced by its source, its nature, and the circumstances under which it is obtained. Consequently, the 
nature and extent of the auditor’s further audit pro cedures to consider the reliability of the information 
used in making an accounting estimate may vary depending on the nature of these factors. For example:  
 When market or industry data, prices, or pricing related data, are obtained from a single external 
information source, specializing in such information, the auditor may seek a price from an 
alternative independent source with which to compare. 
 When market or industry data, prices, or pricing related data, are obtained from multiple 
independent external information sources and points to consensus across those sources, the auditor 
may need to obtain less evidence about the reliability of the data from an individual source.  
 When information obtained from multiple information sources points to divergent mark et views 
the auditor may seek to understand the reasons for the diversity in views. The diversity may result 
from the use of different methods, assumptions, or data. For example, one source may be using 
current prices and another source using future prices . When the diversity relates to estimation 
uncertainty, the auditor is required by paragraph 26(b) to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence about whether, in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework, the 
disclosures in the financi al statements that describe the estimation uncertainty are reasonable. In 
such cases professional judgment is also important in considering information about the methods, 
assumptions or data applied. 
 When information obtained from an external information source has been developed by that source 
using its own model(s). Paragraph A34e of SLAuS 500 provides relevant guidance. 
A128. For fair value accounting estimates, additional considerations of the rele vance and reliability of 
information obtained from external information sources may include:  
(a) Whether fair values are based on trades of the same instrument or active market quotations;  
(b) When the fair values are based on transactions of comparable assets or  liabilities, how those 
transactions are identified and considered comparable;  
(c) When there are no transactions either for the asset or liability or comparable assets or liabilities, 
how the information was developed including whether the inputs developed and used represent the 
assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, if applicable; 
and 
(d) When the fair value measurement is based on a broker quote, whether the broker quote:  
                                                           
53  SLAuS 500, Paragraph A31 

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   69A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
(i) Is from a market maker who transacts in the same type of financial instrument; 
(ii) Is binding or nonbinding, with more weight placed on quotes based on binding offers; and  
(iii) Reflects market conditions as of the date of the financial statements, when required by the 
applicable financial reporting framework. 
A129. When information from an external information source is used as audit evidence, a relevant consideration 
for the auditor may be whether information can be obtained, or whether the information is sufficiently 
detailed, to understand the methods, assumptions and other data used by the external information source. 
This may be limited in some respects and consequently influence the auditor’s consideration of the nature, 
timing and extent of procedures to perform. For example, pricing services often provide information about 
their methods and assumptions by asset class rather than individual securities. Brokers often provide only 
limited information about their inputs and assumptions when providing broker indicative quotes for 
individual securities. Paragraph A34f of SLAuS 500 provides guidance with respect to restrictions placed 
by the external information source on the provision of supporting information.   
Management’s Expert 
A130. Assumptions relating to accounting estimates that are  made or identified by a management’s expert 
become management’s assumptions when used by management in making an accounting estimate. 
Accordingly, the auditor applies the relevant requirements in this SLAuS to those assumptions.  
A131. If the work of a management’s expert involves the use of methods or sources of data relating to accounting 
estimates, or developing or providing findings or conclusions relating to a point estimate or related 
disclosures for inclusion in the financial statements, the requirements in paragraphs 21–29 of this SLAuS 
may assist the auditor in applying paragraph 8(c) of SLAuS 500. 
Service Organizations 
A132. SLAuS 40254 deals with the auditor’s understanding of the services provided by a service organization, 
including internal control, as well as the auditor’s responses to assessed risks of material 
misstatement. When the entity uses the services of a service organization in making accounting estimates, 
the requirements and guidance in SLAuS 402 may therefore assist the auditor in applying the requirements 
of this SLAuS. 
Indicators of Possible Management Bias (Ref: Para. 32) 
A133. Management bias may be difficult to detect at an account level and may only be identified by the auditor 
when considering groups of accounting estimates, all accounting estimates in aggregate, or when observed 
over a number of accounting periods . For example, if accounting estimates included in the financial 
statements are considered to be individually reasonable but management’s point estimates consistently 
trend toward one end of the auditor’s range of reasonable outcomes that provide a more favorable financial 
reporting outcome for management, such circumstances may indicate possible bias by management.  
A134. Examples of indicators of possible management bias with respect to accounting estimates include:  
 Changes in an accounting estimate, or the method for making it, when management has made a  
subjective assessment that there has been a change in circumstances.  
 Selection or development of significant assumptions or the data that yield a point estimate favorable 
for management objectives. 
 Selection of a point estimate that may indicate a pattern of optimism or pessimism. 
                                                           
54  SLAuS 402, Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization 

<!-- page 70 -->

70A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
When such indicators are identified, there may be a risk of material misstatement either at the assertion 
or financial statement level. Indicators of possible management bias themselves do not constitute 
misstatements for purpos es of drawing conclusions on the reasonableness of individual accounting 
estimates. However, in some cases the audit evidence may point to a misstatement rather than simply an 
indicator of management bias. 
A135. Indicators of possible management bias may a ffect the auditor’s conclusion as to whether the auditor’s 
risk assessment and related responses remain appropriate. The auditor may also need to consider the 
implications for other aspects of the audit, including the need to further question the appropria teness of 
management’s judgments in making accounting estimates. Further, indicators of possible management 
bias may affect the auditor’s conclusion as to whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, as discussed in SLAuS 700 (Revised).55  
A136. In addition, in applying SLAuS 240, the auditor is required to evaluate whether management’s judgments 
and decisions in making the accounting estimates included in the financial statements indicate a possible 
bias that may represen t a material misstatement due to fraud. 56 Fraudulent financial reporting is often 
accomplished through intentional misstatement of accounting estimates, which may include intentionally 
understating or overstating accounting estimates. Indicators of possible  management bias that may also 
be a fraud risk factor, may cause the auditor to reassess whether the auditor’s risk assessments, in particular 
the assessment of fraud risks, and related responses remain appropriate.  
Overall Evaluation Based on Audit Procedures Performed (Ref: Para. 33) 
A137. As the auditor performs planned audit procedures, the audit evidence obtained may cause the auditor to 
modify the nature, timing or extent of other planned audit procedures. 57 In relation to accounting 
estimates, information may come to the auditor’s attention through performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence that differs significantly from the information on which the risk assessment was based. For 
example, the auditor may have identified that the only reason for an assessed risk of material misstatement 
is the subjectivity involved in making the accounting estimate. However, while performing procedures to 
respond to the assessed risks of material misstatement, the auditor  may discover that the accounting 
estimate is more complex than originally contemplated, which may call into question the assessment of 
the risk of material misstatement (for example, the inherent risk may need to be re-assessed on the higher 
end of the spectrum of inherent risk due to the effect of complexity) and therefore the auditor may need 
to perform additional further audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. 58 
A138. With respect to accounting estimates that have not been recog nized, a particular focus of the auditor’s 
evaluation may be on whether the recognition criteria of the applicable financial reporting framework 
have in fact been met. When an accounting estimate has not been recognized, and the auditor concludes 
that this  treatment is appropriate, some financial reporting frameworks may require disclosure of the 
circumstances in the notes to the financial statements. 
Determining Whether the Accounting Estimates are Reasonable or Misstated (Ref: Para. 9, 35)  
                                                           
55  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 11 
56  SLAuS 240, paragraph 33(b) 
57  SLAuS 330, paragraph A60 
58  See also SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 31. 

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   71A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
 A139. In determining whether, based on the audit procedures performed and evidence obtained, management’s 
point estimate and related disclosures are reasonable, or are misstated: 
 When the audit evidence supports a range, the size of the range may be wide and, in some 
circumstances, may be multiples of materiality for the financial statements as a whole (see also 
paragraph A125). Although a wide range may be appropriate in the circumstances, it may indicate 
that it is important for the auditor to reconsider  whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has 
been obtained regarding the reasonableness of the amounts within the range.  
 The audit evidence may support a point estimate that differs from management’s point estimate. In 
such circumstances, the differe nce between the auditor’s point estimate and management’s point 
estimate constitutes a misstatement.  
 The audit evidence may support a range that does not include management’s point estimate. In 
such circumstances, the misstatement is the difference betwee n management’s point estimate and 
the nearest point of the auditor’s range.  
A140. Paragraphs A110–A114 provide guidance to assist the auditor in evaluating management’s selection of a 
point estimate and related disclosures to be included in the financial statements. 
A141. When the auditor’s further audit procedures include testing how management made the accounting 
estimate or d eveloping an auditor’s point estimate or range , the auditor is required to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence about disclosures that describe estimation uncertainty in accordance with  
paragraphs 26(b) and 29(b) and other disclosures in accordance with paragraph 31. The auditor then 
considers the audit evidence obtained about disclosures as part of the overall evaluation, in  accordance 
with paragraph 35, of whether the accounting estimates and related disclosures are reasonable in the 
context of the applicable financial reporting framework, or are misstated.  
A142. SLAuS 450 also provides guidance regarding qualitative disclos ures59 and when misstatements in 
disclosures could be indicative of fraud.60 
A143. When the financial statements are prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, the auditor’s 
evaluation as to whether the financial statements achieve fair presentation61 includes the consideration of 
the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, and whether the financial 
statements, including the related notes, represent the transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation. For example, when an accounting estimate is subject to a higher degree of estimation 
uncertainty, the auditor may determine that additional disclosures are necessary to achieve fair 
presentation. If management does not include such additional dis closures, the auditor may conclude that 
the financial statements are materially misstated. 
A144. SLAuS 705 (Revised)62 provides guidance on the implications for the auditor’s opinion when the auditor 
believes that management’s disclosures in the financial s tatements are inadequate or misleading, 
including, for example, with respect to estimation uncertainty. 
Written Representations (Ref: Para. 37) 
A145. Written representations about specific accounting estimates may include representations: 
 That the significant judgments made in making the accounting estimates have taken into account 
all relevant information of which management is aware. 
                                                           
59  SLAuS 450, paragraph A17 
60  SLAuS 450, paragraph A22 
61  SLAuS 700 (Revised), paragraph 14 
62  SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraphs 22–23 

<!-- page 72 -->

72A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
 About the consistency and appropriateness in the selection or application of the methods, 
assumptions and data used by management in making the accounting estimates. 
 That the assumptions appropriately reflect management’s intent and ability to carry out specific 
courses of action on behalf of the entity, when relevant to the accounting estimates and disclosures. 
 That d isclosures related to accounting estimates, including disclosures describing estimation 
uncertainty, are complete and are reasonable in the context of the applicable financial reporting 
framework. 
 That appropriate specialized skills or expertise has been a pplied in making the accounting 
estimates. 
 That no subsequent event requires adjustment to the accounting estimates and related disclosures 
included in the financial statements. 
 When accounting estimates are not recognized or disclosed in the financial statements, about the 
appropriateness of management’s decision that the recognition or disclosure criteria of the 
applicable financial reporting framework have not been met. 
Communication with Those Charged With Governance, Management or Other Relevant Parties (Ref: 
Para. 38) 
A146. In applying SLAuS 260 (Revised), the auditor communicates with those charged with governance the 
auditor’s views about significant qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices relating to 
accounting estimates and rela ted disclosures. 63 Appendix 2 includes matters specific to accounting 
estimates that the auditor may consider communicating to those charged with governance.  
A147. SLAuS 265 requires the auditor to communicate in writing to those charged with governance sig nificant 
deficiencies in internal control identified during the audit. 64 Such significant deficiencies may include 
those related to controls over: 
(a) The selection and application of significant accounting policies, and the selection and application 
of methods, assumptions and data; 
(b) Risk management and related systems; 
(c) Data integrity, including when data is obtained from an external information source; and  
(d) The use, development and validation of models, including models obtained from an external 
provider, and any adjustments that may be required.  
                                                           
63  SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 16(a) 
64  SLAuS 265, paragraph 9 

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   73A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
A148. In addition to communicating with those charged with governance, the auditor may be permitted or 
required to communicate directly with regulators or prudential supervisors. Such communication may b e 
useful throughout the audit or at particular stages, such as when planning the audit or when finalizing the 
auditor’s report. For example, in some jurisdictions, financial institution regulators seek to cooperate with 
auditors to share information about the operation and application of controls over financial instrument 
activities, challenges in valuing financial instruments in inactive markets, expected credit losses, and 
insurance reserves while other regulators may seek to understand the auditor’s views on significant aspects 
of the entity’s operations including the entity’s costs estimates. This communication may be helpful to the 
auditor in identifying, assessing and responding to risks of material misstatement.  
Documentation (Ref: Para. 39) 
A149. SLAuS 315 (Revised) 65 and SLAuS 33066 provide requirements and guidance on documenting the 
auditor’s understanding of the entity, risk assessments and responses to assessed risks. This guidance is 
based on the requirements and guidance in SLAuS 230.67 In the context of auditing accounting estimates, 
the auditor is required to prepare audit documentation about key elements of the auditor’s understanding 
of the entity and its environment related to accounting estimates. In addition, the auditor’s judgments 
about th e assessed risks of material misstatement related to accounting estimates, and the auditor’s 
responses, may likely be further supported by documentation of communications with those charged with 
governance and management.  
A150. In documenting the linkage of the auditor’s further audit procedures with the assessed risks of material 
misstatement at the assertion level, in accordance with SLAuS 330, this SLAuS requires that the auditor 
take into account the reasons given to the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level. Those 
reasons may relate to one or more inherent risk factors or the auditor’s assessment of control risk. 
However, the auditor is not required to document how every inherent risk factor was taken into account 
in identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in relation to each accounting estimate.  
A151. The auditor also may consider documenting: 
 When management’s application of the method involves complex modeling, whether 
management’s judgments have been applied cons istently and, when applicable, that the design of 
the model meets the measurement objective of the applicable financial reporting framework.  
 When the selection and application of methods, significant assumptions, or the data is affected by 
complexity to a  higher degree, the auditor’s judgments in determining whether specialized skills 
or knowledge are required to perform the risk assessment procedures, to design and perform 
procedures responsive to those risks, or to evaluate the audit evidence obtained. I n these 
circumstances, the documentation also may include how the required skills or knowledge were 
applied. 
A152. Paragraph A7 of SLAuS 230 notes that, although there may be no single way in which the auditor’s 
exercise of professional skepticism is documented, the audit documentation may nevertheless provide 
evidence of the auditor’s exercise of professional skepticism. For example, in r elation to accounting 
estimates, when the audit evidence obtained includes evidence that both corroborates and contradicts 
management’s assertions, the documentation may include how the auditor evaluated that evidence, 
including the professional judgments made in forming a conclusion as to the sufficiency and 
appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained. Examples of other requirements in this SLAuS for which 
documentation may provide evidence of the exercise of professional skepticism by the auditor inclu de: 
                                                           
65  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraphs 32 and A152–A155 
66  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 28 and A63 
67  SLAuS 230, paragraph 8(c) 

<!-- page 74 -->

74A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
 Paragraph 13(d), regarding how the auditor has applied an understanding in developing the 
auditor’s own expectation of the accounting estimates and related disclosures to be included in the 
entity’s financial statements and how that expectation compare s with the entity’s financial 
statements prepared by management; 
 Paragraph 18, which requires further audit procedures to be designed and performed to obtain 
sufficient appropriate evidence in a manner that is not biased toward obtaining audit evidence that 
may be corroborative or towards excluding audit evidence that may be contradictory;  
 Paragraphs 23(b), 24(b), 25(b) and 32, which address indicators of possible management bias; and 
 Paragraph 34, which addresses the auditor’s consideration of all relevant  audit evidence, whether 
corroborative or contradictory. 
  

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   75A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
Appendix 1 
(Ref: Para. 2, 4, 12(c), A8, A66) 
Inherent Risk Factors  
Introduction  
1. In identifying, assessing and responding to the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level for an 
accounting estimate and related disclosures,  this SLAuS requires the auditor to take into account the 
degree to which the accounting estimate is subject to estimation uncertainty, and the degree to which the 
selection and application of the methods, assumptio ns and data used in making the accounting estimate, 
and the selection of management’s point estimate and related disclosures for inclusion in the financial 
statements, are affected by complexity, subjectivity or other inherent risk factors. 
2. Inherent risk related to an accounting estimate is the susceptibility of an assertion about the accounting estimate 
to material misstatement, before consideration of controls. Inherent risk results from inherent risk factors, 
which give rise to challenges in appropria tely making the accounting estimate . This Appendix provides 
further explanation about the nature of the inherent risk factors of estimation uncertainty, subjectivity and 
complexity, and their inter -relationships, in the context of making accounting estimat es and selecting 
management’s point estimate and related disclosures for inclusion in the financial statements. 
Measurement Basis 
3. The measurement basis and the nature, condition and circumstances of the financial statement item give 
rise to relevant valuation attributes. When the cost or price of the item cannot be directly observed, an 
accounting estimate is required to be made by applying an appropriate method and using appropriate data 
and assumptions. The method may be specified by the applicable financial reporting f ramework, or is 
selected by management, to reflect the available knowledge about how the relevant valuation attributes 
would be expected to influence the cost or price of the item on the measurement basis.  
Estimation Uncertainty 
4. Susceptibility to a lac k of precision in measurement is often referred to in accounting frameworks as 
measurement uncertainty. Estimation uncertainty is defined in this SLAuS as susceptibility to an inherent 
lack of precision in measurement. It arises when the required monetary amount for a financial statement 
item that is recognized or disclosed in the financial statements cannot be measured with precision through 
direct observation of the cost or price. When direct observation is not possible, the next most precise 
alternative measurement strategy is to apply a method that reflects the available knowledge about cost or 
price for the item on the relevant measurement basis, using observable data about relevant valuation 
attributes. 
5. However, constraints on the availability of su ch knowledge or data may limit the verifiability of such 
inputs to the measurement process and therefore limit the precision of measurement outcomes. 
Furthermore, most accounting frameworks acknowledge that there are practical constraints on the 
information that should be taken into account, such as when the cost of obtaining it would exceed the 
benefits. The lack of precision in measurement arising from these constraints is inherent because it cannot 
be eliminated from the measurement process. Accordingly,  such constraints are sources of estimation 
uncertainty. Other sources of measurement uncertainty that may occur in the measurement process are, at 
least in principle, capable of elimination if the method is applied appropriately and therefore are sources 
of potential misstatement rather than estimation uncertainty. 
6. When estimation uncertainty relates to uncertain future inflows or outflows of economic benefits that will 
ultimately result from the underlying asset or liability, the outcome of these flows will only be observable 

<!-- page 76 -->

76A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
after the date of the financial statements. Depending on the nature of the applicable measurement basis 
and on the nature, condition and circumstances of the financial statement item, this outcome  may be 
directly observable before the financial statements are finalized or may only be directly observable at a 
later date. For some accounting estimates, there may be no directly observable outcome at all . 
7. Some uncertain outcomes may be relatively easy to predict with a high level of precision for an individual 
item. For example, the useful life of a production machine may be easily predicted if sufficient technical 
information is available about its average useful life. When it is not possible to predict a future outcome, 
such as an individual’s life expectancy based on actuarial assumptions, with reasonable precision, it may 
still be possible to predict that outcome for a group of individuals with greater precision. Measurement 
bases may, in some cases, indicate a portfolio level as t he relevant unit of account for measurement 
purposes, which may reduce inherent estimation uncertainty. 
Complexity 
8. Complexity (i.e., the complexity inherent  in the process of making an accounting estimate, before 
consideration of controls) gives rise to inherent risk. Inherent complexity may arise when:  
 There are many valuation attributes with many or non-linear relationships between them. 
 Determining appropriate values for one or more valuation attributes requires multiple data sets.  
  More assumptions are required in making the accounting estimate, or when there are correlations 
between the required assumptions. 
 The data used is inherently difficult to identify, capture, access or understand. 
9. Complexity may be related to the complexity of the  method and of the computational process or model 
used to apply it. For example, complexity in the model may reflect the need to apply probability-based 
valuation concepts or techniques, option pricing formulae or simulation techniques to predict uncertain  
future outcomes or hypothetical behaviors. Similarly, the computational process  may require data from 
multiple sources, or multiple data sets to support the making of an assumption or the application of 
sophisticated mathematical or statistical concepts.  
10. The greater the complexity, the more likely it is that m anagement will need to apply specialized skills or 
knowledge in making an accounting estimate or engage a management’s expert , for example in relation 
to: 
 Valuation concepts and techniques that could be used in the context of the measurement basis and 
objectives or other requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and how to apply 
those concepts or techniques; 
 The underlying valuation attributes that may be relevant given the nature of the measurement basis 
and the nature, condition and circumstances of the financial statement items for which accounting 
estimates are being made; or  
 Identifying appropriate sources of data from internal sources (including from sources outside the 
general or subsidiary ledgers) or from external information sources, determining how to address 
potential difficulties in obtaining data from such sources or in maintaining its integrity in applying 
the method, or understanding the relevance and reliability of that data.  

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   77A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
11. Complexity relating to data may arise, for example, in the following circumstances : 
(a) When data is difficult to obtain or when it relates to transactions that are not generally accessible. Even 
when such data is accessible, for example through an external information source, it may be difficult to 
consider the relevance and reliability of the data, unless the external information source discloses 
adequate information about the underlying data sources it has used and about any data processing that 
has been performed.  
(b) When data reflecting an external information source’s views about future conditions or events, which 
may be relevant in developing support for an assumption, is difficult to understand without transparency 
about the rationale and information taken into account in developing those views.  
(c) When certain types of data are inherently difficult to understand because they require an understanding 
of technically complex business or legal concepts, such as may be required to properly understand data 
that comprises the terms of legal agreements about transactions involving complex financial instruments 
or insurance products. 
Subjectivity 
12. Subjectivity (i.e., the subjectivity inherent in the process of making an accounting estimate, before 
consideration of controls) reflects inherent limitations in the knowledge or data reasonably available about 
valuation attributes. When such limitations exist, the applicable financial reporting framework may reduce 
the degree of subjectivity by providing a required basis for making certain judgments. Such requirements 
may, for example, set  explicit or implied objectives relating to measurement, disclosure, the unit of 
account, or the application of a cost constraint. The applica ble financial reporting framework may also 
highlight the importance of such judgments through requirements for disclosures  about those judgments. 
13. Management judgment is  generally needed in determining some or all of the following  matters, which 
often involve subjectivity: 
 To the extent not specified under the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, 
the appropriate valuation approaches, concepts, techniques and factors to use in the estimation 
method, having regard to available knowledge;  
 To the extent valuation attributes are observable when there are various potential sources of data, 
the appropriate sources of data to use; 
 To the extent valuation attributes are not observable, the appropriate assumptions or range of 
assumptions to make, having regard to the best available data, including, for example, market 
views; 
 The range of reasonably possible outcomes from which to select management’s point estimate, and 
the relative likelihood that certain points within that range would be consistent with the objectives 
of the measurement basis required by the applicable financial reporting framework; and  
 The selection of management’s point estimate, and the related disclosures to be made, in the 
financial statements. 
14. Making ass umptions about future events or conditions involves the use of judgment, the difficulty of 
which varies with the degree to which those events or conditions are uncertain. The precision with which 
it is possible to predict uncertain future events or conditions depends on the degree to which those events 
or conditions are determinable based on knowledge, including knowledge of past conditions, events and 
related outcomes. The lack of precision also contributes to estimation uncertainty, as described above. 
15. With respect to future outcomes, assumptions will only need to be made for those features of the outcome 
that are uncertain. For example, in considering the measurement of a possible impairment of a receivable 
for a sale of goods at the balance sheet date, the amount of the receivable may be unequivocally established 

<!-- page 78 -->

78A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
and directly observable in the related transaction documents. What may be uncertain is the amount, if any, 
for loss due to impairment. In this case, assumptions may only be required about the  likelihood of loss 
and about the amount and timing of any such loss. 
16. However, in other cases, the amounts of cash flows embodied in the rights relating to an asset may be 
uncertain. In those cases, assumptions may have to be made about both the amount s of the underlying 
rights to cash flows and about potential losses due to impairment. 
17. It may be necessary for management to consider information about past conditions and events, together 
with current trends and expectations about future developments.  Past conditions and events provide 
historical information that may highlight repeating historical patterns that can be extrapolated in 
evaluating future outcomes. Such historical information may also indicate changing patterns of such 
behavior over time ( cycles or trends). These may suggest that the underlying historical patterns of 
behavior have been changing in somewhat predictable ways that may also be extrapolated in evaluating 
future outcomes. Other types of information may also be available that indi cate possible changes in 
historical patterns of such behavior or in related cycles or trends. Difficult judgments may be needed about 
the predictive value of such information.  
18. The extent and nature (including the degree of subjectivity involved) of th e judgments taken in making 
the accounting estimates may create opportunity for management bias in making decisions about the 
course of action that, according to management, is appropriate in making the accounting estimate. When 
there is also a high level of complexity or a high level of estimation uncertainty, or both, the risk of, and 
opportunity for, management bias or fraud may also be increased. 
Relationship of Estimation Uncertainty to Subjectivity and Complexity  
19. Estimation uncertainty gives rise to inherent variation in the possible methods, data sources and 
assumptions that could be used to make an accounting estimate. This gives rise to subjectivity, and hence, 
the need for the use of judgment in making the accounting estimate. Such judgments ar e required in 
selecting the appropriate methods and data sources, in making the assumptions, and in selecting 
management’s point estimate and related disclosures for inclusion in the financial statements. These 
judgments are made in the context of the reco gnition, measurement, presentation and disclosure 
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework. However, because there are constraints on 
the availability and accessibility of knowledge or information to support these judgments, they are 
subjective in nature. 
20. Subjectivity in such judgments creates the opportunity for unintentional or intentional management bias 
in making them. Many accounting frameworks require that information prepared for inclusion in the 
financial statements should be  neutral (i.e., that it should not be biased). Given that bias can, at least in 
principle, be eliminated from the estimation process, sources of potential bias in the judgments made to 
address subjectivity are sources of potential misstatement rather than sources of estimation uncertainty. 
21. The inherent variation in the possible methods, data sources and assumptions that could be used to make 
an accounting estimate (see paragraph 19)  also gives rise to variation in  the possible measurement 
outcomes. The size of the range of reasonably possible measurement outcomes results from the degree of 
estimation uncertainty and is often referred to as the sensitivity of the accounting estimate. In addition to 
determining measurement outcomes, an estimation process a lso involves analyzing the effect of inherent 
variations in the possible methods, data sources and assumptions on the range of reasonably possible 
measurement outcomes (referred to as sensitivity analysis). 

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   79A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
22. Developing a financial statement presentation  for an accounting estimate, which, when required by the 
applicable financial reporting framework, achieves faithful representation (i.e., complete, neutral and free 
from error) includes making appropriate judgments in selecting a management point estimate  that is 
appropriately chosen from within the range of reasonably possible measurement outcomes and related 
disclosures that appropriately describe the estimation uncertainty. These judgments may themselves 
involve subjectivity, depending on the nature of the requirements in the applicable financial reporting 
framework that address these matters. For example, the applicable financial reporting framework may 
require a specific basis (such as a probability weighted average or a best estimate) for the selection of the 
management point estimate. Similarly, it may require specific disclosures or disclosures that meet 
specified disclosure objectives or additional disclosures that are required to achieve fair presentation in 
the circumstances. 
23. Although an accounting estimate that is subject to a higher degree of estimation uncertainty may be less 
precisely measurable than one subject to a lower degree of estimation uncertainty, the accounting estimate 
may still have sufficient relevance for users of the financia l statements to be recognized in the financial 
statements if, when required by the applicable financial reporting framework, a faithful representation of 
the item can be achieved. In some cases, estimation uncertainty may be so great that the recognition 
criteria in the applicable financial reporting framework are not met and the accounting estimate cannot be 
recognized in the financial statements. Even in these circumstances, there may still be relevant disclosure 
requirements, for example to disclose the point estimate or range of reasonably possible measurement 
outcomes and information describing the estimation uncertainty and constraints in recognizing the item. 
The requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework that apply in these circumst ances may 
be specified to a greater or lesser degree. Accordingly, in these circumstances, there may be additional 
judgments that involve subjectivity to be made. 
 

<!-- page 80 -->

80A      I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020  
 
  
Appendix 2 
(Ref: Para. A146) 
Communications with Those Charged with Governance 
Matters that the auditor may consider communicating with those charged with governance with respect to the 
auditor’s views about significant qualitative aspects of the entity’s accounting practices related to accounting 
estimates and related disclosures include: 
(a)  How management identifies transactions, other events and conditions that may give rise to the need for, 
or changes in, accounting estimates and related disclosures.  
(b) Risks of material misstatement. 
(c) The relative materiality of the accounting estimates to the financial statements as a whole; 
(d) Management’s understanding (or lack thereof) regarding the nature and extent of, and the risks associated 
with, accounting estimates; 
(e) Whether management has applied appropriate specialized skills or knowled ge or engaged appropriate 
experts. 
(f) The auditor’s views about differences between the auditor’s point estimate or range and management’s 
point estimate. 
(g) The auditor’s views about the appropriateness of the selection of accounting policies related to accounting 
estimates and presentation of accounting estimates in the financial statements.  
(h) Indicators of possible management bias. 
(i) Whether there has been or ought to have been a change from the prior period in the methods for making 
the accounting estimates 
(j) When there has been a change from the prior period in the methods for making the accounting estimate, 
why, as well as the outcome of accounting estimates in prior periods. 
(k) Whether management’s methods for making the accounting estimates,  including when management has 
used a model, are appropriate in the context of the measurement objectives, the nature, conditions and 
circumstances, and other requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.  
(l) The nature and consequences of  significant assumptions used in accounting estimates and the degree of 
subjectivity involved in the development of the assumptions; 
(m) Whether significant assumptions are consistent with each other and with those used in other accounting 
estimates, or with assumptions used in other areas of the entity’s business activities. 
(n) When relevant to the appropriateness of the significant assumptions or the appropriate application of the 
applicable financial reporting framework, whether management has the intent to carry out specific courses 
of action and has the ability to do so. 
(o) How management has considered alternative assumptions or outcomes and why it has rejected them, or 
how management has otherwise addressed estimation uncertainty in making the accou nting estimate. 

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h 2020'03'11   81A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2020 
 
(p) Whether the data and significant assumptions used by management in making the accounting estimates 
are appropriate in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.  
(q) The relevance and reliability of information obtained from an external information source. 
(r) Significant difficulties encountered when obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to data 
obtained from an external information source or valuations performed by management or a management’s 
expert. 
(s) Significant differences in judgments between the auditor and management or a management’s expert 
regarding valuations. 
(t) The potential effects on the entity’s financial statements of material risks and exposures required to be 
disclosed in the financial statements, including the estimation uncertainty associated with accounting 
estimates. 
(u) The reasonableness of disclosures about estimation uncertainty in the financial statements.   
(v) Whether management’s decisions relating to the recognition , measurement, presentation and disclosure 
of the accounting estimates and related disclosures in the financial statements are in accordance with the 
applicable financial reporting framework. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 