

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
89
89
wxl 1"535 _ 2008 fmnrjdß 01 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008’02’01
No. 1,535 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 01, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 92
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 95
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th February 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 25th January, 2008.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B._ Part II of the Gazette No. 1,534 of 25.01.2008 was Not Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
90
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
91
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
92
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths Hambantota District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as
District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 01st March, 2008.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
10th January, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Division of the The Division and the Post for The address to which applications,
Divisional Secretary which applications are called must be sent
Hambantota Beliatta Post of Registrar of marriages (General) District Secretary/Addl.
in Giruwapattu South Division and Registrar General, District
of Births and Deaths of Kahawatta Secretariat Office, Hambantota
Lower Division
02–72
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND  SOCIAL  WELFARE
Recruitment of Graduates to the Posts of Counselling Assistant
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens with the following qualifications for the above posts in the Ministry of Social
Services and Social Welfare.
1. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Services :
(i) The Post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii)The provisions of Section 10-12, Chapter (ii) of the Establishment Code will apply.
(iii)Selected candidates will be subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code, the Financial Regulations or any other
regulations or orders issued from time to time by the Government.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
93
(iv) The appointment will be on probation for a period of three years.
2. Salary Scale.– In Terms of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (iv), the post carries a salary scale of (M/N 4/2006 - A).
Rs. 15,215 - 10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15 x 360 - Rs. 25,965.
3. Basic Qualifications :–
(i) The candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii)Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age on 29.02.2008. (This maximum age limit will not apply
to those who are already in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service).
4. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made after a structural interview. Applicants with maximum marks will be
selected. Graduates who possess the following qualifications only can apply for the posts :
Designation Educational Qualifications Division No. of
V acancies
1. Counselling Special Degree in Psychology awarded by a recognized university Counselling Division 32
Assistant or completion of one year Diploma Course in Counselling at a
recognized institution with a degree from a recognized university
Method of Application.– Candidates are required to prepare applications in conformity with the specimen form given below. Duly
completed applications should be sent under registered cover to the “Secretary, Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare”, Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla to reach on or before 29.02.2008. Application from applicants who are already in the Public Service must be forwarded through
the Head of the Department and must be accompanied by a certificate stating that the officer can be released if selected.
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. The words “Recruitment to the Post of Counselling Assistant” should be
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Late applications and incomplete applications without
necessary qualifications will be rejected without any notification.
The Secretary of the Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare reserves the right of deciding matters with regard to recruitment
and filling or not filling the total number of vacancies.
V.  JEGARASASINGAM ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Social Services and Social Welfare.
01st February, 2008.
For Office use only
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
R ECRUITMENT  OF  GRADUATES  FOR  THE  V ACANT  POSTS  IN THE  MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND  SOCIAL  WELFARE
Medium
Post Applied
Division
01. Name with initials (Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms.) :––––––––––––.
02. Name in Full :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
04. Present Residential Address :––––––––––––.
05. Present Residential District :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
94
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Gender :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :   Month :                         Date :
(ii)Age (as at 29.02.2008) :
Years :   Months :                        Days :
09. Nationality :––––––––––––.
10. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
11. Details of the Degree :
(i) University :––––––––––––.
(ii)Date of award of Degree :––––––––––––.
(iii)Special/General :––––––––––––.
(iv) Subjects :––––––––––––.
(v) Class (First/Second Upper/Second Lower) :––––––––––––.
(vi) Medium :––––––––––––.
12. Other relevant educational/V ocational qualifications (Post Graduate/Diploma)
if any :
(i) ––––––––––––––––
(ii)––––––––––––––––
(iii)––––––––––––––––
13. Language proficiency (Marck (
√) in the relevant cage) :
Very Good Good Fair Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
14. Experience :––––––––––.
Declaration of the Candidate
I …………… hereby declare that the information furnished above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I further
declare that I have not been dismissed from the public services or retired from the service due to inefficiency as an option and not been
considered as a person who have vacated the post.
I am liable to be dismissed from service if it is revealed that I am not eligible after selection to the post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
If the candidate is in the public service the recommendation of the Head of the Department
Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………… is a permanent/temporary/casual ……………… in this Ministry/Department and he/she can/
cannot be released if selected.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
02–02

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
95
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN/LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  VACANCIES  IN  THE  CLASS  II  GRADE  II  OF
THE  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH  SERVICE – 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who have full fill the relevant qualifications for the post of V eterinary Research
Officer, Veterinary Surgeon and (the vacancies are available in the Departments of Animal Production and Health in Northern and Eastern
Provinces only) and Livestock Officers. (Majority of the V acancies of this post is available in the Department of Animal Production and
Health - Northern and the Eastern Province only). The applications prepared on A4 paper 81/2“ x 12” using both sides according to the
specimen application attached to this application should be posted under registered cover to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Livestock
Development, P. O. Box 45, St. Michels Road, Colombo 03 on or before 29.02.2008.
The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination :
Note :
(i) Recruitment to the post of Veterinary Research Officer and Veterinary Surgeon will be made only from the Open recruitments.
50% of the vacancies in the post of Livestock Officer will be recruited by the Open competitive examinations. When it is
unable to recruit to the number equals to the percentage stipulated in paragraph 10(1) of the minutes of the Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service amended by the Gazette Notification No. 1,436/8 dated 13.03.2006 the balance number of
the vacancies too will be fill by the Open competitive recruitment.
(ii) A candidate can send application for any number of post of Veterinary Research Officer, Veterinary Surgeon, Livestock
Officer separately if posses the relevant qualifications.
(iii) No complains with regard to a loss or delay of such an application in the post can be considered. Candidate themselves
should tolerate the possible risk of delaying there application till the last date. The words “Applications for the post of
veterinary research Officer/Veterinary surgeon/Livestock Officer” should be written clearly on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application (the post applied only should be written).
(iv) The applications of the applicant who have not full filled the basic qualification will be rejected.
2. Terms and conditions of the Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees should contribute to Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ pension
scheme.
(ii)The selected candidates will be appointed to fill a scheduled post in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as
applied by them.
(iii)The other terms and conditions of the service will be applied as per the minute of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and
Health Service which had been published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 31.10.1980
and the amended terms issued from time to time and the provisions referred to in the establishment Code of the Sri Lanka
and the terms in the Circulars of the Public Administration issued from time to time.
3. Salary Scale.– According to P . A. Circular 6/2006 the relevant annual salary scale for this post are SL-I-2006. The consolidated
annual salary scale for the post in class II grade II of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790
- 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555. The first Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed before reaching the forth steps of this salary scale and the
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed before reaching the seventh steps of this salary scale.
Note :
(i) Those who have recognized and relevant M. A. or M. Sc or higher post graduate qualification in addition to the basic
qualification at the time of the appointment to the class II grade II will be placed on a salary scale not exceeding the fourth
steps of the salary scale.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
96
4. Basic qualifications for the Recruitment :
(a) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be not less than 20 years and not more than 35 years of age at the closing date of the appilcation.
(c) The maximum age limit will be 40 years for the applicants with postgraduate’s qualifications.
(d) Should be physically fit and excellent moral character, the physical fitness should be proved by a medical certificate.
(e) The graduates in veterinary Science should be registered in the Veterinary Council before the closing date of the appilcation.
(f) The age limit will not apply for the applicant who apply for the limited recruitment.
5. Open Recruitment :
Educational Qualifications.– The following educational qualifications should be fulfilled.
(i) Post of Veterinary research Officer
A four-year degree with a first class or second-class upper level in Veterinary Science obtained from a recognized University.
(ii) Post of veterinary Surgeon
A four year degree in Veterinary Science obtained from a recognized University.
(iii)Post of Livestock Officer
A four-year degree in Veterinary Science/Livestock science/Agriculture science. Obtained from a recgnized University.
Note :
(i) The candidates should obtained the required qualifications with regard to the degree prescribed as a basic qualification on
or before the closing date of the application. The date of operation of the degree certificate should be the closing date of the
application or a date before that.
(ii)The application which are awarding results, will not be entertained.
6. Method of recruitment :
(a) The appointments for the posts of V eterinary Research Officer and Veterinary Surgeon will be made only from the open
recruitments. 50% of the vacancies in the posts of Livestock Officer will be recruited by the open competitive examination.
When it is unable to recruit the number equals to the percentage allocated for the limited recruitment the balance number of
vacancies should be filled by the open recruitment.
(b) A candidate can send appilcations for any number of posts of V eterinary Research Officer, veterinary Surgeon, Livestock
Officer separately if possess the relevant qualifications.
(c) The relevant recruitments will be made by calling for a viva voice based on the order of the marks obtained for the general
question paper and the subject oriented question paper and the number of vacancies allocated for it No marks will be given
at the interview.
7. The candidate who apply for the post of veterinary research officer Veterinary Surgeon and livestock officer should sit for the
selection test comprised with the following subjects. The candidate should be send their applications separately for each post applied for
which fee of rupees 250 for the examination should be paid to any post office in the island to be drown from the post office Peradeniya in
favour of the director General of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service and the money order should be affixed in the relevant cage
of the appilcation All the candidates who apply for the above post should sit for the general Question Paper comprise with the following
subject. It is consist with two parts as stated below.
(a) General Question paper - Part I – Intelligence Time 01 hour – 100 marks.
Multiply choice question paper to determine the rational and analytical abilities of the candidates.
(b) General Paper – Part two – General Knowledge (Time 1 1/2) hour - 100 marks
A question paper in a structural pattern to check the knowledge in political science, Social cultural and economic environment
of Sri Lanka as well as lcoal and foreign current affairs and scienctific and technical developments.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
97
(c) In addition to the above general question paper the candidates who apply for the above posts should sit for a subject matter
question paper/papers prepared with an idea to check the knowledge and the ability in the respective field/fields applied by
them. The time for this question paper is 01 1/2 hours - 200 marks.
I. The syllabus of the subject matter question paper for the post of veterinary Research Officer is given below
01. * Live stock field of Sri Lanka characteristics and special features development needs of that field development feasibility and
challenges.
* Nature of the organization of government private and non-governmental institutional structures involved in the field of
Animal Production proceument and marketing.
02. Animal diseases which have an economic importance how the diseases affect the national economy and controlling them.
Zoonotic diseases which can be found in Sri Lanka and controlling them.
03. The duties and functions of the Veterinary Surgeons in the production of animal production for the consumption of the man
adequate precautionary measures required for the consumption of the products, productions and the methods of preparation
and relevant concept and standards.
04. Breeding strategies, which can be used for various species of animals in order to use the resources in the optiumum level
available in different areas in Sri Lanka.
05. Traditional and non-traditional animal feed sources availability and strategies to upgrade them according to the future needs.
Nutritional requirements for Animal Husbandry and preparations of food rations for those species of animals.
06. Objectives and importance of laws rules and regulations, which are important for animal husbandry, agriculture, aquaculture,
wild life environment and public veterinary service.
07. Upgrade the productivity through the mutual relationship between the various agricultural product system and Live stock
productions, planning and preparations of the budgets and maintenance of records of the farms agricultural production and
animal husbandry.
08. Research Structures, basic theories of biometry and the usage of them, results of the researches, definitions and to take
decisions relevant to them.
09. Using of scientific methods for investigations Laboratory techniques and strategies investigations of disease and diagnosis
relevant to the live stock field.
10. Animal quarantine strategies, the importance of import and export activities and quarantine methods in connection with
animals and animal productions.
II. The syllabus of the subject matter question paper for the post of veterinary surgeon is as follows
01. * Live stock field of Sri Lanka characteristics and special features development needs of that field development feasibility and
challenges.
* Nature of the organization of government private and non-governmental institutional structures involved in the field of
Animal Production proceument and marketing.
02. Animal diseases which have an economic importance how the dseases affect the national economy and controlling them.
Zoonotic diseases which can be found in Sri Lanka and controlling them.
03. The functions of the Veterinary Surgeons in the production and process of animal production for the consumption of the
human being the adequate precautionary measures required for the consumption of the products the productions and the
methods of preparation relevant concepts and standards.
04. Bredding strategies, which can be used for various species of animals in order to use the resources in the optimum level
available in different areas in Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
98
05. Traditional and non-traditional animal feed sources availability and strategies to upgrade them according to the future needs.
Nutritional requirements for animal husbandry and preparation rations for animal species.
06. Objectives and importance of laws rules and regulations, which are important for animal husbandry agriculture aquaculture
wild life environment and public veterinary services.
07. Various farm produce system and livestock productions planning and preparations of budgets and maintaining of reports for
farms and upgrading the productivity through the mutual relationship between the agricultural products and Line stock
products.
08. Using of scientific methods for investigations Laboratory techniques and strategies investigations of diseases and diagnosis
relevant to the live stock field.
09. Importance of Agriculture/livestock extension services in order to provide a technical knowledge for the rural economic
development of Sri Lanka, suitable extension service strategies and a methodology for those tasks.
10. Globalization, information and communication technology and its impact on the livestock field, in Sri Lanka.
11. International trade for livestock field trade transaction and the importance and the impact of them.
12. Animal quarantine strategies, the importance of import and export activities and quarantine methods in connection with
animals and animal productions.
III. The Syllabus for the subject matter question paper for the post of livestock officer is as follows
01. * Live stock field of Sri Lanka characteristics and special features development needs of that field development feasibility and
challenges.
* Nature of the organization of government private and non-governmental institutional structures involved in the field of
Animal Production procurement and marketing.
02. The importance and the involvement of the livestock field in the rural and national economic development.
03. Breeding strategies, which can be used for various species of animals in order to use the resources in the optimum level
available in different areas in Sri Lanka.
04. Traditional and non-traditional animal feed sources availabilty and strategies to upgrade them according to the future needs.
Preparations of nutritional requirements for animal husbandry and rations for animal species.
05. Laws, rules and regulations which are important for animal husbandry, agriculture, aquaculture, wild life environment and
public veterinary services and the objectives and the importance of them.
06. Various farm produce system and livestock productions, planning of farms and preparation of budgets and maintaining of
reports for farms and upgrade the productivity through the mutual relationship between the various agricultural product
system and Live stock productions.
07. Importance of Agriculture/livestock extension services in order to provide a technical knowledge for the rural economic
development of Sri Lanka suitable extension service strategies and a methodology for those tasks.
08. Globalization, information and communication technology and its impact on the livestock sector in Sri Lanka.
09. International trade for livestock field, trade transaction and the importance and the impact of them for livestock field.
10. Animal quarantine strategies, the importance of import and export activities and quarantine methods in connection with
animals and animal productions.
08. Limited Recruitments :
(i) 50% of the vacancies in the posts of livestock officer will be filled by the limited recruitments.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
99
(ii)Qualifications for the Limited Recruitments.– Should be a Livestock Development Officer/Research Assistant or a
Livestock Development Instructor in the Provincial Council Service at present with the two year Diploma in Animal
Husbandry/Agriculture and as a Livestock Development Instructor in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers
Service or in the Provincial Council Service or an officer in the special class of the Sri Lanka Technological Service or an
officer who have completed four year satisfactory service in Class I ; or
Should be a Livestock Officer/Research Assistant in the Department of Animal Production and Health Service/Livestock
Development Instructor in the Provincial Council with the four-year degree in Livestock Science or Agriculture and a
period of five-year service.
(iii)Method of Recruitment :
(a) The candidate should answer the above general paper and subject oriented question paper for the livestock officer ;
(b) The recruitment will be done by calling for the viva voice based on the order of the marks obtain for the general
question paper and subject orient question paper and the number of vacancies allocated. No marks will be given for
the interview.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION  FOR  THE  OPEN /COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  …………… C LASS  II GRADE  II
OF  THE  SRI LANKA  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH  SERVICE
For office use only.
Language medium selected to sitSinhala
for the examination by you. T amil
Mark X in the relevant cage. English
01. (i) Name with initial (Block capital) :
(ii)Names denoted by initials (Block capital) :
02. N. I. C. No. :
03. Mailing address (Change of the address should be informed immediately) :––––––––––––.
04. The residence is situated within :
(i) –––––––––––––– Provincial Council.
(ii)–––––––––––––– District.
05. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date
Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
06. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––––.
Race (Sinhala/Sri Lankan Tamil/Indian Tamil/Muslim/Other) :–––––––––––––.
07. ( a) Sex :–––––––––––––.
(b) Civil Status :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
100
08. Educational Qualification :
Degree/Post Graduate Qualification Class University Year
1.
2.
3.
09. Registration No. of the Veterinary Council and the date :–––––––––––––.
10. Should be perfected by only the officers who have gained qualifications under paragraph 6-11 of this notification :
The particulars relevant to the Diploma in Animal Husbandry :–––––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the Service :
Post held at present Period of service Place of work District/Provincial Council
From                         To
12. If you apply for more than one post preference should be given according to the order which helps to consider at the selection :
(i) –––––––––––––––––
(ii)–––––––––––––––––
(iii)–––––––––––––––––
13. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any particulars are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissal without compensation if detected after
appointment. I also certify that I have not been convicted for any criminal offence. Further, I declare that I will be subject to the rules
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conducting of the examination.
Note : The money order mentioned below is attached to the application :
No. of the money order :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Post Office :–––––––––––––.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––––.
R
ECOMMENDATION  OF  THE  HEAD  OF  DEPARTMENT
I declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………… is holding the post of ……………… this Department/Provincial Council and the
particulars stated in the appilcation are accurate when checked them with his/her personal file. He/She can be released/cannot be released
from Provincial Publics Service if selected for this post. (Delete the words not relevant to it).
–––––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Provincial Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– The Officer in the Provincial Department of Department of Animal Production and Health who have full fill the above
qualification too can apply for it.
09. Candidates will be required to produce the following documents at the interview when informed :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii)Originals of the degree and the highest educational certificates ;

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
101
(iii) Two certificates of character obtained recently one of them should be form the Director of the Course and the other one from the
Professor or Lecturer of the University ;
(iv) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(v) Certificate of Registration as a Veterinary Surgeon in the Veterinary Council (this is relevant for the candidates who apply for the
posts of Veterinary Research Officer and the Veterinary Surgeon only).
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking decision pertaining to the matters not enacted in this Gazette Notification:
1. The public service commission reserves the final decision of filling or not filling or part of filling of vacancies.
2. If conformity has been created between Sinhala, Tamil, English in this Gazette Notification the Sinhala notification is should be
the authoritative notification.
3. If it is found that a candidate has not obtained required qualifications is candidature will be cancelled before during or after the
examination or at any stage of it.
4. The candidate can be dismissed from the service if it is found that he has furnished fault information knowingly or concealed and
important information purposely.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
SUNIMAL  SENARATHNE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development.
Ministry of Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michael’s Road,
Colombo 03,
02–54
–––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  MOTOR  TRAFFIC
Written Examination for Registration of Driving
Instructors – 2008
APPLICATIONS are called till 05th March, 2008 from the qualified
citizens of Sri Lanka for the written examination for the Registration
of Driving Instructors in the Department of Motor Traffic. The
examination will be held on April month in Colombo.
01. Qualifications.– Applicants should have fulfilled the
qualifications given below :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii)Should not be below 25 years of age ;
(iii)Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination with six
subjects including Arithmetic or Mathematics and
Language ;
(iv) In respect of the class of vehicles that the applicant intends
to apply for registration as an instructor, it is essential to
possess a driving license in respect of the same class
obtained at least 05 years before the closing date of
application.
02. Procedure of Examination :
(1) This examination will be held in Sinhala/Tamil and English
mediums. (The medium in which the applicant obtained
qualifications).
(2) Applicants should answer all the papers in one and the
same language medium. They will not be allowed to change
the language medium mentioned in the application
subsequently.
03. Subjects Relevant to the Examination.– This examination
consists of a paper comprising of two parts on Motor Traffic
Management :
(i) Motor Traffic Management I – Time : 01 hour
50 questions of multiple choice type.
(ii) Motor Traffic Management II – Time : 02 hours 30
minutes. (This paper is a semi-structured essay type one
which consists of 8 questions. Each applicant should
answer 05 questions including the first question.)
04. Syllabus.– Both these papers consist of questions on traffic
rules and regulations, mechanical knowledge on motor vehicles and
on the driving ability.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
102
The paper will be designed to cover the subjects mentioned below :
(1) Attributes of a driver ; as only a good driver will make a
good driving instructor ;
(2) Responsibilities, attitudes and skill of driving instructor
as a teacher ;
(3) Provisions on driving schools and driving instructors laid
down in the Motor Traffic Act.
(4) Knowledge on constructions and regulations of the Motor
Traffic Act ;
(5) Knowledge on Highways Code and the relevant Gazette
Notifications ;
(6) Construction and regulations of the Motor Traffic Act.
Regulations relevant to driving schools and driving
instructors ;
(7) Driving Training Manual and Driving Instructors’
Handbook and their syllabuses ;
(8) Knowledge on maintenance and functions of the vehicle
and knowledge on the main systems of a vehicle.
* Knowledge on the engine and gear box.
* Knowledge on the steering wheel system and its functions.
* Knowledge on the suspension system and its functions.
* Knowledge on the break system and its functions.
* Knowledge on the electrical system and its functions.
05. Procedure of Selection.– The applicants who obtained 40%
or more marks at the written examination will be called for an interview
in order to verify the qualifications and those who are selected at the
interview will be called for the practical test.
06. Method of Application :
(1) Application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared in
an A4 size paper using both sides and be filled by the
candidate him/herself in his/her own handwriting.
Applications which are incomplete and not conforming
to the specimen will be rejected without prior notice. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the applications at
candidate’s possession.
(2) Preparation of the application form should be in the
language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the
examination. It is required to indicate the name of the
examination in English as well in the applications prepared
both in Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
(3) Duly completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 05.03.2008. The
top-left hand corner of the envelop containing the
application should clearly bear the title of the examination ;
i. e. “Written Examination for Registration of Driving
Instructors”.
(4) Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 720. The fee
should be paid to the District/Divisional Secretariat to be
credited to Head No. 2003-20-14 of the Commissioner of
Motor Traffic and the receipt should be attached to the
application. A copy of the receipt should be kept with
the applicant. Candidates should make sure that the
completed application complies with the specimen given
in the examination notice. Applications that do not comply
are liable to be rejected.
(5) The signature of the applicant in the application should
have been attested by a Principal of a government school,
a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, a
commissioned officer in the armed forces, officer holding
a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding
a permanent post in the Public Service of which the basic
salary is above Rs. 237,060 (annual).
(6) Applications which are not complete in every aspect will
be rejected. Complaints regarding the loss or delay of an
application in the post will not be taken into consideration.
(7) A notification will be published in newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as the admission
cards are issued candidates. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement.
It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration
and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of
request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
card should be sent.
07. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates should prove his/her
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor
regarding every subject he sits for. For this purpose, one of the
following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A Valid Passport.
08. Issue of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily
mean that he/she possesses the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination.
09. Candidates should be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting
the examination and they are liable to a punishment imposed by him
for breach of these rules.
B. W
IJAY ARATNE ,
Commissioner of Motor Traffic.
At the Department of Motor Traffic,
Alvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
103
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICA TION
W RITTEN  EXAMINATION  FOR  REGISTRATION  OF
D RIVING  INSTRUCTORS  – 2008
01. Last name with initials (In English block capitals) :––––––––.
02. Names denoted by initials (In English block capitals) :––––––.
03. Permanent Address (In English block capitals) :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Day :
06. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Language medium in which you intend to sit the examination :
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
08. Educational Qualifications :––––––––.
09. Professional Qualifications :––––––––.
10. Number of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee,
issuing office and date of issue (It is advisable to keep a copy of
receipt with you) :––––––––.
11. Class of V ehicles in which you intend to become an instructor
:––––––––.
12. Please indicate your :
(i) Driving License Number :––––––––.
(ii)Date of Issue :––––––––.
(iii)Eligible class of vehicles :––––––––.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in the
applications are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and I am aware that if the statement made by me is proved to be
incorrect I will be disqualified to be registered as a driving
instructor and if it is found to be incorrect after the registration,
it would lead to cancellation of registration. Furthermore, I
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imosed by the
Commissioner General of Examination on conducting of this
examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
02–118

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
104
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full pay-
ments to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be
accompanied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted
in payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of
the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8 , as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05. who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’02’01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2008
105
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue, Kirulapone,
Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2008
FEBRUARY 01.02.2008 Friday — 18.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
08.02.2008 Friday –– 25.01.2008 Friday 12 noon
15.02.2008 Friday –– 01.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
22.02.2008 Friday –– 08.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
29.02.2008 Friday –– 15.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 07.03.2008 Friday — 22.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
14.03.2008 Friday –– 29.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
19.03.2008 Wednesday –– 07.03.2008 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2008 Friday –– 14.03.2008 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 04.04.2008 Friday — 19.03.2008 Wednesday 12 noon
11.04.2008 Friday –– 28.03.2008 Friday 12 noon
18.04.2008 Friday –– 04.04.2008 Friday 12 noon
25.04.2008 Friday –– 11.04.2008 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.