

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 8. 00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 13,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 11th March, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NATION  BUILDING  TAX
ACT,  NO . 9 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Nation Building Tax  Act, No. 9 of 20091
[Certified on 11th March, 2009]
L. D.—O. 48/2008.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  IMPOSITION  AND  COLLECTION  OF  A  TAX  TO
BE  CALLED  THE  NATION  BUILDING  TAX  ON  THE  LIABLE  TURNOVER  OF
EVERY  PERSON  TO  WHOM  THIS  ACT  APPLIES ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR
MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Nation Building Tax
Act, No. 9 of 2009 and shall come into operation on February
1, 2009.
2. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to every
person who—
(a) imports of any article, other than any article
comprised in the personal baggage of the passenger,
into Sri Lanka, [“baggage” shall have the same
meaning as in section 107
A  of the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235)]; or
(b) carries on the business of manufacture of any article; or
(c) carries on the business of providing a service of
any description.
(2) Every person referred to in subsection (1) shall,
hereafter in this Act, be referred to as “person to whom this
Act applies”.
3. (1) A tax to be called the “Nation Building Tax”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Tax”) shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act, be charged from every person to whom
this Act applies calculated at the rate of one per centum, in
the following manner:—
(i) in the case of a person referred to in paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) of section 2, who imports any article
Short Title.
Person to whom
this Act applies.
Imposition of a
Nation Building
Tax.
2 —PL 003913—4,200 (05/2009)

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009
into Sri Lanka on or after January1, 2009 the tax
shall be chargeable in respect of the liable turnover
of such person arising from the importation into Sri
Lanka of such article; and
(ii) in the case of a person referred to in paragraph (b) or
(c) of subsection (1) of section 2, for every quarter
commencing on or after January 1, 2009 (hereinafter
referred to as “relevant quarter”, the tax shall be
chargeable in respect of the liable turnover of such
person for such relevant quarter.
(2) In this section “liable turnover”—
(i) with reference to any person referred to in paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) of section 2 arising from the
importation of any article, means the value of that
article ascertained for the purpose of Value Added
Tax under section 6 of the Value Added Tax Act,
No. 14 of 2002;
(ii)with reference to any person and to any relevant
quarter referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) of section 2, means the sum receivable whether
received or not from the sale in Sri Lanka, in that
quarter, of every article manufactured by such
person;
(iii) with reference to any person referred to in paragraph
(c) of subsection (1) of section 2 and to any relevant
quarter means the sum receivable, whether received
or not, from the provision in Sri Lanka of any service
referred to in that paragraph.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), the
liable turnover for any relevant quarter of any person to
whom this Act applies, referred to in paragraph (ii) or (iii) of
that section shall not include—
(i) any bad debt incurred by such person in that
quarter;

<!-- page 4 -->

Nation Building Tax  Act, No. 9 of 20093
 
(ii)any value added tax under the Value Added Tax
Act, No. 14 of 2002 paid in that relevant quarter;
(iii)any excise duty under the Excise Duty (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989, paid in that quarter:
Provided however, any bad debt recovered in any relevant
quarter, shall be included in the relevant turnover of that
relevant quarter.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
tax shall not be chargeable from any person referred to in
paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 2,
for any relevant quarter if—
(i) liable turnover of such person for that relevant
quarter does not exceeds the sum of six hundred
and fifty thousand rupees;
(ii)such person has paid for that relevant quarter
optional Value Added Tax under Chapter III
B  of the
Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002.
4. Every person to whom this Act applies, being a person
referred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection (1)
of section 2 shall, notwithstanding that no assessment has
been made on him for any relevant quarter, pay—
(i) an amount equivalent to one third of the Tax
payable for that relevant quarter on or before the
twentieth day of the second month of that relevant
quarter;
(ii) an amount equivalent to one third of the Tax
payable for that relevant quarter on or before the
twentieth day of the third month of that relevant
quarter; and
(iii) an amount equivalent to the balance of the Tax
payable for that relevant quarter on or before the
twentieth day of the month immediately
succeeding the end of that relevant quarter,
Payment of
the Tax.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009
to the Commissioner General, in such manner as may be
specified by him in that behalf.
For the purpose of this section the expression “one third
of the tax payable” in relation to any relevant quarter means
one third of the Tax calculated on the sum estimated by such
person to be the liable turnover for that relevant quarter.
5. (1) The Director General of Customs shall collect
from every person referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) of section 2, the tax chargeable from such person in
respect of every article imported by such person, at the time
such article is imported, and shall make an endorsement on
the import invoice relating to such article specifying the
amount so collected.
(2) Any amount collected by the Director General of
Customs in accordance with the preceding provisions of
this section in relation to any article imported by any person
to whom this Act applies shall be deemed to be the Tax
chargeable in respect of the liable turnover arising from the
importation of such article and shall be deemed to have
been paid by such person to the Commissioner-General on
the day on which such amount was so collected.
(3) Any amount collectible under subsection (1) shall for
the purpose of collection and recovery of such amount and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, be
deemed to be customs duty chargeable under the Customs
Ordinance and accordingly, the provisions of the Customs
Ordinance shall apply to the collection and recovery of such
amount.
(4) Where any article imported into Sri Lanka is sold—
(i) by the Director General of Customs for the recovery
of any duty, levy or any charge collectible under
the Customs Ordinance; or
Collection of the
Tax by the
Director General
of Customs.

<!-- page 6 -->

Nation Building Tax  Act, No. 9 of 20095
(ii) by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by the
Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979, for
the recovery of any dues collectible under that Act;
or
(iii) by the Commissioner General,
the purchaser of such article shall be deemed to be a person
referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2,
and the provisions of this Act shall apply to him accordingly.
6. Where any person to whom this Act applies, being a
person referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of
section 2—
(i) is deemed, by virtue of subsection (2) of section 5
to have paid in any relevant quarter, the tax in
respect of any article imported by him;
(ii)has paid the tax under section 4 in respect of any
article purchase by him from another person
referred to in that paragraph,
being in either case an article which is used exclusively in
his business of manufacture, he shall be entitled to credit for
the tax so paid against the tax payable under section 4 for
that relevant quarter:
Provided that where such credit for any relevant quarter
exceeds the tax so payable for that quarter, the excess shall
be deemed to be an advance payment of the tax made under
section 4 for the relevant quarter immediately succeeding
that relevant quarter.
7. Every person to whom this Act applies, being a person
referred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection
(1) of section (2) whose liable turnover for any relevant
quarter exceeds the sum referred to in subsection (4) of
section 3, shall give notice in writing to the Commissioner
Credit for Tax
paid.
Notice of
chargeability.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009
General, of his chargeability to the tax for that quarter, not
later than the fifteenth day of the last month of that relevant
quarter. The notification shall disclose the name, the postal
address, the taxpayer-identification number if any, or the
income tax file number if any, and such other information as
the Commissioner General may specify by Order published
in the Gazette.
8. The provisions in sections 106, 107, 108 and 112 of
Chapter XII relating to Returns etc, Chapter XXII relating to
Assessments, Chapter XXIII relating to Appeals, Chapter
XXIV relating to Finality of Assessments and Penalty for
Incorrect Returns, Chapter XXV relating to Tax in Default
and Sums Added Thereto, Chapter XXVI relating to
Recovery of Tax, Chapter XXVII relating to Miscellaneous,
Chapter XXIX relating to Penalties and Offences, Section
209 of Chapter XXX relating to Administration and Chapter
XXXI on General matters, of the Inland Revenue Act, shall
mutatis mutandis apply to the furnishing of returns,
assessments, appeal against assessments, finality of
assessments and penalty for incorrect returns, tax in default
and sums added thereto, recovery of tax, miscellaneous,
penalties and offences, administration and general matters
under this Act subject to the following modifications:—
(a) every reference to the year of assessment in any
such provision of the Inland Revenue Act, shall be
deemed to be a reference to the “relevant quarter”
in this Act;
(b) every reference to assessable income or taxable
income in any such provision of the Inland Revenue
Act, shall be deemed to be a reference to the “liable
turnover” in this Act; and
(c) every reference to income tax in any such provision
of the Inland Revenue Act, shall be deemed to be a
reference to the tax charged and levied in terms of
the provisions of this Act.
Certain
provisions of the
Inland Revenue
Act to apply.

<!-- page 8 -->

Nation Building Tax  Act, No. 9 of 20097
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
10. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
“article” includes any goods, material or any
agricultural or horticultural produce, but does not
include any excepted article specified in Part I of
the Schedule to this Act;
“body of persons”, “business”, “Commissioner
General” and “company” shall have the same
respective meanings which they have in the Inland
Revenue Act;
“Inland Revenue Act” means the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 10 of 2006 ;
“manufacture” means any process for—
(i) making an article;
(ii)assembling or joining any article whether by
chemical process or otherwise;
(iii) adapting for sale any article;
(iv) packaging, bottling, putting into boxes,
cutting into pieces, cleaning, polishing,
wrapping, labeling, or in any other way
whatsoever preparing for sale any article
otherwise than in a retail stores for the purpose
of sale in such store exclusively and directly
to the consumer;
“person” includes any company, body of persons or
any partnership;
Interpretation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009
“quarter” means the period of three months
commencing on the first day of January, April,
July or October of any year:
Provided that the quarter which commences on the
first of February 2009 shall comprise two months;
“service” does not include any excepted service
specified in Part II of the Schedule to this Act; and
“year” means a calendar year.
SCHEDULE
PART  I
EXCEPTED  ARTICLES
(i) any article exported by the manufacture of such article;
(ii) any article not being plant, machinery or fixtures imported
by any person exclusively for use in, or for, the manufacture
of any article for export;
(iii) any article sold to any person to whom this Act applies
exporter if the Commissioner General is satisfied, on the
production of a letter of credit opened in any bank in Sri
Lanka in respect of the export of that article or other
documentary evidence that such article has in fact been
exported from Sri Lanka;
(iv) any article which is imported, if proved to the satisfaction of
the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, that such
article is imported to Sri Lanka for—
(i) display at an exhibition;
(ii) the temporary use in Sri Lanka in any project approved
by the Minister;
(iii) for the purposes of repairs to that article to be carried
out in Sri Lanka; or
(iv) any other similar purpose, and is to be re-shipped,
within a period of one year from the date of importation
of such article to Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 10 -->

Nation Building Tax  Act, No. 9 of 20099
(v) any article imported, if proved to the satisfaction of the
Director General of Customs, that such article was, prior to
its importation, taken out of Sri Lanka for repairs;
(vi) any cinematographic film or teledrama produced in Sri Lanka
and taken out of Sri Lanka for further processing or printing
with the approval of the National Film Corporation;
(vii) any spare part imported by any airline or shipping company,
if proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General,
that such spare part is to be used for the maintenance of any
aircraft of ship, used in international traffic and owned or
chartered by such airline or shipping company;
(viii) any article sold, to the United Nations Organization or to any
specialized agency of such organization or to the diplomatic
mission of any foreign Government or to any member of the
diplomatic staff of such mission or to any other person
approved by the Minister on the recommendation of the
Minister of Foreign Affairs as being of the status of a
diplomatic mission;
(ix) any article imported if such article is subject to the Special
Commodity Levy charged under the Special Commodity
Levy Act, No. 48 of 2007;
(x) Fertilizer;
(xi) P etroleum and Petroleum products;
(xii) L. P . Gas;
(xiii) Pharmaceuticals; and
(xiv) Tea supplied by the Manufacturer being a manufacturer
registered with the Sri Lanka Tea Board established by the
Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975, to any registered
broker for sale at the Colombo Tea Auctions.
PART II
EXCEPTED  SERVICES
the following services—
(i) the business of Banking or Finance;
(ii) supply of electricity;
(iii) medical services;

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009
(iv) supply of water;
(v) transport of goods or passengers
(vi) leasing of movable properties;
(vii) service of a construction contractor, not being a sub-
contractor, insofar as such services are in respect of
constructing any building, road, bridge, water supply,
drainage or sewerage system, harbour, airport or any
infrastructure project in telecommunication or electricity;
(viii) services provided to any exporter of any article, being
services directly related to improving the quality and
character of such article;
(ix) the services of sewing garments provided to any exporter
of such garments;
(x) services of a freight forwarder, shipping agent licensed
under the Licensing of Shipping Agents Act, No. 10 of
1972 or courier insofar as such services are in respect of
the exporter of any article from Sri Lanka;
(xi) services provided by a public corporation, insofar as such
services are in respect of the export of any article from Sri
Lanka;
(xii) operating a hotel, guest house, restaurant or other similar
business, if such hotel, guest house, restaurant or other
similar business if such business is registered with the Ceylon
Tourist Board;
(xiii) the services of an auctioneer, broker, insurance agent or
commission agent of any local produce;
(xiv) the services of a travel agent in respect of inbound tours, if
such person is registered with the Ceylon Tourist Board;
(xv) services of a computer software developer in respect of
software developed by such person for use wholly outside
Sri Lanka and for which payment is received in foreign
currency through a bank;
(xvi) services provided over the Internet, using custom-built
software, by an enterprise, exclusively for the provision of
such services being services enabling or facilitating the sale
of goods, or for the provision of services, by a person in
Sri Lanka to person outside Sri Lanka, for payment in
foreign currency;

<!-- page 12 -->

Nation Building Tax  Act, No. 9 of 200911
(xvii) client support services provided over the internet or
telephone, by an enterprise, exclusively for the provision
of such services, to one or more identified clients outside
Sri Lanka, for payment in foreign currency;
(xviii) the business of life insurance;
(xix) distribution or production and supply, of any
cinematographic films primarily for exhibition in cinemas;
(xx) exhibiting films in a cinema;
(xxi) any service provided to the United Nations Organization or
to any specialized agency of such organization or to the
diplomatic mission of any foreign Government or to any
member of the diplomatic staff of such mission or to any
other person approved by the Minister of the
recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs as being
of the status of a diplomatic mission; and
(xxii) any service rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to any person
or partnership outside Sri Lanka for payment in foreign
currency if such foreign currency is remitted to Sri Lanka
through a bank.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.