

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1876$31 - 2014 wf.daia;= ui 20 jeks nodod - 2014'08'20
No. 1876/31 - WEDNESDAY ,  AUGUST  20,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
North  Western  Provincial  Irrigation  Statute No. 02 of  2014 of the North  Western  Province  Provincial  Council
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 03rd  June, 2014 is hereby
published for the information of the public.
PADMINI KARIY AW ASAM,
Secretary,
Provincial Council,
North Western Province.
Council Office,
North Western Provincial Council,
Kurunegala.
13th  day of August, 2014.
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  IRRIGATION  STATUTE
OF THE NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
A Statute to provide for the planning, designing, implementation, supervision, maintenance and rehabilitation of all
irrigation works other than irrigation schemes in the North Western Province relating to rivers running through more than one
Province  and the inter provincial irrigation and land development schemes ; for the matters incidental thereto and for the
repeal of the North Western Provincial Statute of Minor Irrigation and Rural Road Sustainable maintenance Fund No. 03 of
2004 of the North Western Provincial Council.
This Statute concurs with the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1946 as amended by the Irrigation (Amendment) Act,
No. 01 of 1951, Irrigation (Amendement) Act, No. 48 of 1968, Irrigation (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 1973, Irrigation (Amendment)
Act, No. 23 of 1983, Irrigation (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 1994 and with the Agrarian Development Act, No. 40 of 2000 as
amended by the Agrarian Development (Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 2011.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
2A
Be it enaced by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province as follows :–
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Irrigation Statute No. 02 of 2014 of
the North Western Provincial Council.
2. This Statute shall come into operation on such date as the Governor of the North Western
Province may appoint on the approval of the North Western Province Council.
3. The objects of the Statute are as follows :–
(i) provide for the planning, designing, and implementing all irrigation works and ellanga
systems, reservoirs, anicuts, canals and streams, water fountains, irrigation reservations
and feeding areas other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through more
than one province and for the demarcation of boundaries of irrigation works and ;
(ii) to establish the North Western Provincial Department of Irrigation ;
(iii) to establish the North Western Provincial Irrigation Committee ;
(iv) to establish the Irrigation Management and Development Committees and Irrigation
systems Management and Development Committees ;
(v) to create an agro culture on the basis of natural agriculture ;
(v) to create an agro culture on the basis of natural agriculture ;
(vi) to manage the Provincial Irrigation Sustainable Maintenance Fund ;
(vii) to regularize the management of Minor Irrigation and Rural Road Maintenance Fund
presently in operation in the North Western Province ;
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION
AND ITS COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS
4. There shall be established the North Western Provincial Department of Irrigation (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘‘Department’’ for the prupose of giving effect to provisions of this Statute.
5. The Department herein constituted shall be and become a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue or be sued by its name with the power to perform all actions
pertaining to irrigation work.
6. The Department shall be comprised of a Provincial Director, a Deputy Director, Assistant
Directors, other officers and employees.
7. The Governor of the Province shall on the recommendation of the North Western Provincial
Minister In-Charge of the subject appoint a Class I officer of the Engineering Service as the ‘‘North
Western Provincial Director of Irrigation’’ for the exercise of the powers vested with the North Western
Provincial Department of  Irrigation.
8. There shall have the power to appoint Public officers as officers of the North Western Provincial
Department of Irrigation with the concurrence of the relevant Line Minister in the event the services of
such officers become necessary for the efficient administration and management of irrigation works.
Short title and
date of
operation
Date of Operation
Objects of the
Statute
Establishment of
the Department
Department  to
be a body
corporate
Composition of
the Department
Appointment of
the Director
Public Officers
to be appointed

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
9. All officers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed as Public Officers within
the meaning of the Penal Code.
10. Functions of the North Western Provincial Department of Irrigation shall be as follows :–
(i) to redesign existing irrigation systems in a more productive manner ;
(ii) to rehabilitate, develop and conserve irrigation systems and to formulate and implement
plans to demarcate and conserve the boundaries of irrigation systems ;
(iii) to design and implement new irrigation systems in amore productive manner ;
(iv) to prepare the Annual Provincial Irrigation Plan and to obtain the approval for same of
the Secretary ;
(v) to obtain the participation of Irrigation Committees for the rehabiliation, maintenance
and conservation of irrigation systems ;
(vi) to take legal action against those persons who cause damages to irrigation systems ;
(vii) to declare irrigation reservations ;
(viii) to demarcate and declare cultivation areas and extents ;
(ix) to provide institutional assistance to Provincial Ministry of Agriculture, Provincial
Department of Agriculture, Department of Animal productions, Department of Agrarian
Services and other governmental and non-Governmental institutions in the field of
agriculture  in the implementation of agricultural programmes ;
(x) to implement programmes in relation to the water management and combined invasive
aquatic plants management ;
(xi) to prevent and mitigate environmental damages that lead to decay and dilapidation of
irrigation systems and to take actions to develop echo systems ;
(xii) to assist in the formulation of cultivation schedules for the cultivation of paddy under
irrigation or otherwise ;
(xiii) to develop, update and maintain the data system of the Department ;
(xiv) to register, Irrigation Management and Development Committees ; provide guidance and
advice to such committees and to formulate procedures for their meetings ;
(xv) to impose limitations on and examine accounts of Irrigation Management and
Development Committees and Irrigation Systems Management and Development
Committees ;
(xvi) to take legal action against any officer or any member of any Irrigation Management and
Development Committee who is found to have misappropriated moneys or resources of
the Committee, on the examination of accounts of the Committee ;
(xvii) to formulate plans to make use of spare water in irrigation systems ;
(xviii) to take action to develop agricultural thoroughfares ;
(xix) to grant apporval for Irrigation Management and Development Committees to dredge for
irrigation renovation activities and for maintaining required water levels ;
(xx) t o  approve the paddy land register as certified by the Irrigation management and
Development Committees ;
(xxi) to grant approval for any institution, organization or group which intends to rehabilitate,
develop or conserve an irrigation for same.
To be Public
Officers
Functions of the
Department

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
4A
11. The Director shall be vested with the powers to execute orders and regulations made for the
purpose of this Statute or for the matters incidental thereto under the normal direction of the Secretary.
12. The Director may delegate his powers to other officers of the Department as may be required.
13. There may be established and maintained Zonal or District Offices for the effective management
of irrigation work.
PART II
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION COMMITTEE
14. There shall be establised a Provincial Irrigation Committee called ‘‘North Western Provincial
Irrigation Committee’’ to facilitate the implementation of the Provincial Irrigation Policy. The Provincial
Minister In-charge of the subject of Irrigation shall be the Chairman of this Committee and the Secretary to
the Ministry In-charge of the subject of Irrigation shall be the Secretary to the Committee. This Committee
may conduct its deliberations in association with Provincial Animal Production and Development Committee
and the Provincial Agriculture Committee.
15. (1) The Committee shall comprise of the following members :–
i. Provincial Council Members of the Advisory Committee to the North Western Provincial
Ministry in -charge of the subject of Irrigation ;
ii. District Secretaries of the districts of Kurunegala and Putlam ;
iii. North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation ;
iv. North Western Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health ;
v. North Western Provincial Director of Agriculture ;
vi. North Western Provincial Commissioner of Lands ;
vii. North Western Provincial Director of Engineering ;
viii. North Western Provincial Director of Fisheries ;
ix. North Western Provincial Commissioner of Local Governments ;
x . Deputy Inspector Generals of police of Kurunegala and Putlam Districts ;
xi. Zonal Director of Irrigation - Putlam / Kurunegala ;
xii. Deputy or Assistant Commissioners of Agrarian Services in the districts of Kurunegala
and Putlam ;
xiii. Director, Environment Authority of the North Western Provincial Council ;
xiv . District Heads of Kurunegala and Putlam of the Aquaculture Development Authority of
Sri Lanka ;
xv . District Managers of the districts of Kurunegala and Putlam of the Agriculture and
Agrarian Insurance Board ;
xvi. Forest Conservators of the Districts of Kurunegala and Putlam ;
xvii. North Western Provincial Director of the Department of Wildlife ;
powers of the
Provincial
Director
Delegation of
powers of the
Director
Establishment of
zonal or district
office.
Provincial
Irrigation
Committee
Composition of
the Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
xviii. Provincial Manager of the paddy Marketing Board ;
xix. District heads of Kurunegala and Putlam of the National Fertilizer Secretariat ;
x x . Two persons with expertise in the subjcet of irrigation ;
xxi. Two representatives of the Irrigation Management and Development Committee ;
xxii. Two Heads of special Projects of the State, Semi-government or non-government sector
implemented in the province in relation to agriculture, animal production or irrigation.
(2) The Minister may co-opt any other representatives of Government, Semi - Government or
Non-Government institutions or organizations for the Committee as deemed necessary.
16. The members referred to from (i) to (xix) at sub - Section 15(1) of this Statute shall be ex-officio
members  of the Committee and the Minister may appoint the other members referred to from (xx) to (xxii) at
his discretion.
17. The term of office of the members appointed by the Minister shall be one (01) year.
18. Where a member appointed by the Minister vacates office by expiry of term of office,
resignation, removal by the Minister at his discretion, absence from three consecutive meetings or death
or insanity, the Minister shall fill the vacancy so created.
19. The provincial Committee shall meet at least once in every two months and the Secretary may
convene additional meetings of the Committee as necessary on the advice of the Chairman.
20. (1) The quorum of the Committee shall be 1/4 of the membership.
 (2) The existence of vacancies in the Committee shall not obstruct the conduct of meetings of
the Committee or the making of decisions at such meetings.
21. The functions of the provincial Irrigation Committee shall be as follows :
(i) to submit and implement recommendations and proposals for the formulation of policies
relevant to the province regarding matters stipulated in the Statute in compliance with
the National Policy ;
(ii) to provide advice for the operation and implementation of matters mentioned in the
Statute ;
(iii) to submit proposals and to provide advice and guidance for the preparation of the
Annual Provincial Irrigations Plan ;
(iv) to take follow up actions and to review the implementation of the Provincial Irrigation
Policy while providing necessary resources and assistance for the implementation of
same ;
(v) to resolve issues that may arise in the planning and implementation of irrigation works in
the province ;
(vi) to grant prior approval for any project or programme to be implemented within the
province by any institution, organization, foundation, federation, project, programme or
any other similar institution, person or group of persons ;
(vii) to ensure the effective utilization of irrigations.
Appointment of
members to the
Committee.
Term of office
of members
Vacation of
membership.
Meetings of the
Committee.
The quorum
Powers and
functions of the
Committee.
6 - PG 2151

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
6A
22. (1). The Committee may make procedures for the conduct of business of the meetings of the
Committee.
 (2) The members of the Committee attending the meetings thereof may be remunerated at such
rates as may be approved by the Minister.
PART III
PROVINCIAL   SUSTAINABLE  IRRIGATION  MAINTENANCE  FUND
23.  There shall be established the North Western Provincial Sustainable Irrigation Maintenance
Fund (hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘Fund’’).
24. The Fund shall be and become a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue or be sued by its name with the power to perform all actions pertaining to irrigation work.
25. All assets and liabilities of the Minor Irrigation and Rural Road Maintenance Fund established
under North Western Provincial  Minor Irrigation and Rural Road Maintenance Fund Statute No. 03 of 2004
of the North Western Provincial Council shall be assigned to the Fund established under Section 23 of this
Statute.
26. The custody of the Fund shall be vested in the North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation .
27. The Board of Management of the North Western Provincial Sustainable Irrigation Maintenance
Fund as provided for hereinafter shall be responsible for the administration, management and the control
of the Fund.
28. The composition of the Board of Management of the North Western Provincial Irrigation
Management Fund hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘Board’’ shall be as follows :
(i) Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charged of the subject of Irrigation ;
(ii) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance Management) of the Provincial Council of the North
Western Province ;
(iii) North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation ;
(iv) Kurunegala and Putlam District Heads of the Department of Agrarian Development
appointed with the concurrence of the Director General of Agrarian Services ;
(v) Head of the Provincial Sustainable Irrigation Maintenance Unit ;
(vi) a representative appointed by the North Western Provincial Minister in-charged of the
subject of Irrigation ;
(vii) ten representatives of Irrigation Management and Development Committees representing
agricultural zones in the districts of Kurunegala and Putlam appointed by the North
Western Provincial Minister in-charged of the subject of Irrigation.
29. (1) The Secretary to the  North Western Provincial Ministry in-charged of the subject of
Irrigation shall be the ex-officio Chairman of the Board.
  (2) North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation shall be the Secretary of the Board.
Procedures and
remuneration
for participation
Provincial
Sustainable
Irrigation
Maintenance
Fund
The Fund to be a
body Corporate.
Assets and
liabilities to be
assigned.
The custody of
the Fund.
Board of
Management of
the Maintenance
Fund.
Composition of
the Board.
Appointment of
the Chairman
and the
Secretary of the
Board.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
30. Appointment of the members of the Board and their term of office :
 (1) The Minister shall appoint members of the Board to hold office for a term of 03 years from
the date of appointment.
(2) The Minister shall have the absolute power to remove any member of the Board except
an ex-officio member, at any time, if the Minister is of the view that such member is not
holding the appointment duly or it is detrimental for him to hold the said appointment.
(3) When an ex-officio member ceases to hold office by virtue of which he was appointed,
his membership shall cease forthwith and the successor to such office shall be appointed
for the remaining period of membership of his predecessor.
(4) Any member except an ex-officio member may resign from the membership on a written
request made to the Minister.
(5) The term of office of any member appointed to a vacancy created as a result of resignation
or removal of any member, shall be for the remaining period of term of the member who he
succeeds.
31. The quorum of the Board shall be one third of the membership.
32. The members and the Secretary of the Board of Management may be remunerated as determined
by the Board of Ministers of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province.
33. The Director of Irrigation shall maintain a separate Bank Account in respect of the Fund in a
State Bank Monies accumulated in excess may be deposited in a fixed deposit in a State Bank.
34. There shall be paid into the Fund :–
(1) 50% of monies provided from the Provincial Council Fund under the annual sustainable
irrigation maintenance estimates ;
(2) monies provided by the Government institutions ;
(3) monies received from other projects in operation in the are of authority of the province
with funds from local/foreign sources ;
(4) Monies that may be received from other sources as grants, donations or gifts ;
(5) interests received from term and fixed deposits ;
(6) all monies allocated for rehabilitation and renovation by the government, Provincial
Councils or by any other institution ;
(7) a part of the proceeds of sale of silt and soil dredged and removed in irrigation rehabilitation
activities.
35. The Director of Irrigation may subject to the approval of the Board of Management, pay out of
the Fund :–
(1) the payment of 50% contribution of the annual maintenance estimate apporved by the
Director of Irrigation or his representative to the Irrigation Management and Development
Committee, for which purpose, the committee needs to have deposited 50% of the said
estimate in its account ;
(2) the payments made to Farmer Organizations for the labour in any irrigation work with the
consent of the respective Maintenance Manager ;
Appointment of
members of the
Board and their
term of office
and removal.
Quorum of the
Board.
A payment to be
made.
Accounts of the
Fund.
Constitution of
the Fund.
Cancellation of
registration and
liquidation.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
8A
(3) the payments for the purchase of necessary equipment for maintenance of irrigation
works which are successfully maintained subject to a maximum as determined ;
(4) the payments allocated by the Board for the sustainable maintenance programmes and
for the requirements of the Unit that implements maintenance programmes ;
(5) the payments made to the Chairman and all other members of the Board for attending the
meetings of the Board.
36. (1) The Director of Irrigation shall cause proper accounts be kept of the income and expenditure
of the Fund.
 (2) The Auditor General shall audit the accounts of the Fund.
37. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of matters incidental to the exercise, execution
and implementation of powers, duties and functions of the Board.
PART IV
ESTABLISHMENT  AND  POWERS OF THE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEES
38. There shall be established one or more Irrigation Management and Development Committees
in an irrigated agricultural area as determined by the Provincial Director of Irrigation.
39. The Committee so established shall be registered at the office of the Provincial Director of
Irrigation and shall be and become a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and
may sue or be sued by its name with power to perform all actions pertaining to irrigation work.
40. (1) Any person whose livelihood is agriculture may enrol himself as a member of a Irrigation
Management and Development Committee established under Section 38 of this Statute if such person is :–
(i) a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) not less than 18 years of age ;
(iii) engaged in agricultural activities in the area of authority of the Irrigation Management
and Development Committee he intends to enroll with.
 (2) Any person residing in the area of authority of the respective Irrigation Management and
Development Committee who is :–
(i) not engaged in agriculture as his livelihood but is a owner or a occupant of a agricultural
land within the are of authority of such Committee ; and
(ii) engaged in income generation in the field of agriculture, or marketing agricultural products
or goods may obtain the associate membership of a Irrgation Management and
Development Committee established under Section 38 of this Statute ;
 (3) Associates members may be enrolled for the sole purpose of obtaining advice and views
and such Associate Members shall not be entitled to caste vote or to hold any office of the Irrigation
Management Committee.
Accounts of the
Fund.
Minister to
make
regulations.
Establishment of
the Management
and
Development
Committees
Committee to be
a body
Corporate.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
41. The membership of every Irrigation Management and Development Committee shall elect a
Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer, Vice-Chairman, Deputy Secretary, and not less than six members to the
Executive Committee and the term of such office bearers shall be for a period of twelve months from the
date of their appointment.
42. (i) Every Irrigation Management and Development Committee shall act in compliance with the
general constitution prepared by the Director and approved by the Minister.
 (ii) the Minister may make regulations pertaining to the conduct of business at meetings of the
committee, functions of the Committee and maintenance of accoundts and to maters incidental thereto.
43. Powers and functions of the Irrigation management and Development Committee shall be as
follows :–
(i) to prepare plans and facilitate cultivation of crops and paddy in agricultural lands and
paddy lands respectively ;
(ii) to give effect to and promote traditional practices relating to agriculture and other activities
related to agriculture ;
(iii) to ensure that agricultural activities are carried out as scheduled ;
(iv) to manage efficiently the water supplied by irrigation schemes ;
(v) to take action to remove weeds that obstruct the paddy cultivation in any paddy land ;
(vi) to establish a sustainable maintenance fund for each and every irrigation work within the
area of authority of the Committee and to maintain an account in favour of each sustainable
maintenance fund for each irrigation work ;
(vii) to levy as a subscription a prescribed portion of the yield proportionate to the extent of
land in possession for the purpose of establishing the sustainable maintenance fund ;
(viii) to effect the maintenance, protection and water management of the irrigation tank ;
(ix) to assist in demarcating the boundaries of irrigation works ;
(x) to control invasive aquatic plants ;
(xi) to coordinate programmes on brackish water fisheries ;
(xii) to ensure that a maintenance estimate is prepared annually under each irrigation work
and that famers will deposit in an account of the Committee an amount equivalent to at
least 50% of the said annual estimate :
(xiii) to take actions to protect irrigations in an exigency outside the annual estimate ;
(xiv) to assist to bring before the court any person who commits an offence under this Statute ;
(xv) to pay to the credit of the fund the fines imposed by the court.
44.  (1) The meetings of the Irrigation Management and Development Committee shall be convened
once in every month or in every two months.
 (2) The quorum of meetings of the Committee shall be more than one third of the membership.
Composition
and term of
office of office
bearers of the
Irrigation
Management and
Development
Committee.
Procedures of
the Committee
Powers and
Functions of the
Committee
Meetings and
the quorum.
7 - PG 2151

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
10A
45. (1) The membership of the Committee shall elect three persons as the Water Manager,
Maintenance Manager and Plant Manager or one or two persons for the purpose from and among the
membership.
 (2) The Water, Maintenance ; and Plant Manager so elected may hold office for a term of
twelve months from the date of such election.
46. (1) The manager may resign from his office on a written request addressed to the Irrigation
Management and Development Committee.
 (2) (i) The Director may remove the aforesaid Managers from office on the consent of
majority of members or on the grounds of findings of an inquiry conducted by the
Director or by any other officer duly authorized by him on chargers of inefficiency or
miscounduct.
(ii) An appeal from the removal referred to at (i) above may be made to the Secretary to
the Ministry.
(iii) The determination of the Secretary on any such appeal shall be final.
47. The functions of the Maintenance Manager shall be as follows :–
(1) to prepare a register of paddy lands in the tract with the assistance of the other members
of the Committee and get it approved by the Committee and submit same to the Director
of Irrigation for approval.
(2) to allocate extents of the main irrigation dam, main distribution canal and the tank bund
for cleaning and maintenance to be in proportionate with the extent of paddy lands
belonging to each owner or occupier in the register of paddy lands.
(3) to demarcate using some permanent method the extent allocated to each owner or occupier.
(4) to cause the removal of thorny bushes, jungle and anthills in the extent so allocated and
demarcated and filling with earth the eroded parts of the bund prior to the commencement
of each cultivation season.
(5) to carry out all other identified activities connected with the sustainable maintenance of
the bund with the participation of members of the Irrigation Management and
Development Committee.
(6) to arrange for the conservation of the boundaries of irrigations and irrigation reserves.
48. The functions of the Water Manager shall be as follows :
(1) to take action to protect irrigations ;
(2) to assist the Irrigation Management and Development Committee to bring before the
court any person who causes damages to irrigations ;
(3) to preserve water issued from reservoirs and irrigation works ;
(4) to operate water management activities in accordance with time tables of agricultural
plans ;
(5) to issue water according to the plan approved by the Committee for the distribution of
water taking into account weather and climatic factors, on identification of water needs ;
(6) to minimize the waste of water.
Election of the
Water,
Maintenance
and Plant
Manager and his
term of office.
Cessation of
office.
Functions of the
Maintenance
Manager.
The functions of
the Water
Manager.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
49. The functions of the Plants Manager shall be as follows :
(1) to identify invasive aqua plants in the irrigation systems ;
(2) to educate farmers about the dangers of the invasive aqua plants ;
(3) to coordinate aqua plants removing activates ;
(4) to monitor and coordiante activities related to production of manure using the aqua
plants removed from irrigation systems ;
(5) to assist the Committee in freshwater fisheries.
50. (1) In the event, any owner or occupant fails to properly clean the portion allotted to him, the
Committee shall cause such portion be cleaned, and notify such person, to pay the monies incurred for
such cleaning and other expenses in the post under registered cover.
(2) Any person who fails to pay the said amount within fourteen days from the receipt of the
said letter shall be guilty of default of the said amount.
 (3) When an offence is committed under Section 50 (2) of this statute, if the irrigation Manager
is satisfied after an inquiry, the Committee shall file action in the court under which jurisdiction the land at
issue is situated on the certificate issued by the Director and shall recover the said sum in the from of a fine
imposed by the court after a summery trial. The fine so imposed shall be credited to the Fund of the
respective Irrigation Management and Development Committee.
(4) The sum of money indicated on the certificate issued for the purpose of sub - Section 50 (3)
under the hand of the Director of Irrigation or any other officer authorized for the purpose shall be prima
facie evidence of the sum of money due and owing to the Irrigation Management and development
Committee.
(5) The Magistrate shall not require producing any other proof in support of the certificate
referred to at sub - Section 50 (4) of this statute.
PART V
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  IRRIGATION   SYSTEM  MANAGEMENT  AND  DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEES   AND  THEIR  POWERS
51. There may be established a Committee which shall be called ‘‘Irrigation System management
and Development Committee’’ as determined by the Director of Irrigation on the basis of the physical
setting of the area of authority of the Irrigation Management and Development Committees established
under Section 38 of this Statute, for each irrigation system or Ellanga system.
52. The Irrigation System Mangement and Development Committee so established shall be
registered with the Provincial Director if Irrigation and shall be and become a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue or be sued by its name with the power to perform all actions
pertaining to irrigation work.
53. The three main office bearers viz Chairman, Secretary and the Treasurer of the Irrigation
Management and Development Committees established at irrigation or tract level within the area of authority
of the Committee, shall be the members of the Irrigation System Management and Development Committee.
Functions of the
Plants Manager.
Provisions
relating to
failure to clean
the allotted
portion.
Establishment of
Irrigation
System
Management and
Development
Committee.
Irrigation
System
Management and
Development
Committee to be
a body
corporate.
Membership of
Irrigation
System
Managerment
and
Development
Committees.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
12A
54. (1) Three members representing each irrigation work of the system shall be elected to the
office of the Chairman, Secretary and the Treasurer of the Committee. In appointing members to the said
office of Chairman, Secretary and the Treasurer, no two members from the same Irrigation Management and
Development Committee shall be appointed.
 (2) An Executive Committee comprising of not less than 11 members including the said three
office bearers shall be appointed for the Irrigation System Management and Development Committee.
 (3) The term of office of the Executive Committee shall be one year.
 (4) The Irrigation System Management and Development Committee shall comply with the
general constitution drafted by the Director and approved by the minister.
55. The functions of the Committee shall be as follows :
(i) to take action for the conservation of the entire irrigation system ;
(ii) to determine priorities of irrigation work in rehabilitation and development activities ;
(iii) to conserve irrigation reservations scattered along the irrigation system ;
(iv) to assist in dev eloping high lands in the close proximity to every irrigation work of the
system ;
(v) to assist the officals of the Department in demarcating and preserving components of
the irrigation system as required by rules and regulations ;
(vi) to manage the entire system as a single unit for and integrated development ;
(vii) to conserve catchments ;
(viii) to produce organic manure utilizing organic wastes in the irrigation work and the tract ;
(ix) to introduce integrated pest and weed control methods and integrated cultivation models ;
(x) to carry out agro product marketing activities and awareness and training programmes
for farmers ;
(xi) to coordinate matters pertaining to Ellanga systems which are connected to other
provinces.
PART VI
GENERAL
56. Every Irrigation Management and Development Committee and Irrigation System Management
and Development Committee shall open and maintain an account in a State Bank for the purpose of the
Committee.
57. The accounts of the Committee shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted to audit
accounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the Constitution.
58. Every Irrigation Management and Development Committee and Irrigation System Management
and Development Committee shall submit to the Director of  Irrigation or any other person authorized by
him the statement of accounts of the Committee prepared in the format as required by the Director within
two (02) weeks from the expiry of a period of twelve (12) months from the commencement of its term of
office.
Staff, the
Committee,
Term of office
and Constitution
of the Irrigation
System
Management and
Development
Committee.
Functions of the
Committee.
An account to
be maintained.
Audit of
accounts.
Statement of
accounts to be
Submitted to the
Director.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
59. Every Irrigation Management and Development Committee and Irrigation System Management
and Development Committee shall have the power to enter into Agreements subject to the restrictions
already imposed or to be imposed in future, to conditions as resolved by the General Meeting and to the
approval of the Director.
60. If any institution, organization or group intends to rehabilitate, develop or conserve any
irrigation work whatsoever, such institution, organization or group shall follow the procedure prescribed
by regulations with the concurrence of the Irrigation Management and Development Committee and
obtain the written approval therefor of the Director of Irrigation.
  For the purpose of granting such permission, there shall be follow up actions to the satisfaction
of the Director of Irrigation for the sustainable maintenance of the irrigation work undertaken and the
Committee concerned shall consent to provide necessary assistance for the sustaninable maintenance of
the irrgation work.
61. (1) The Minister may make regulations for and in respect of matters referred to in the Statute.
 (2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such date as may be specified in such regulation. Every
regulation made by the Minister shall as soon as it is convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before the Provincial Council for approval. Any regulation which is not so approved by the
Provincial Council shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but without prejudices
to anything previously made there under and a notification of the date on which any such regulation is
deemed rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
62. (1) The Director may appoint an liquidator for the purpose of cancellation of registration and
liquidation of any registered  Irrigation Management and Development Committee or Irrigation System
Management and Developement Committee on grounds any one or many reasons given below :
(i) the membership of the Committee declines to less than twelve ;
(ii) the Committee being defunct for a period over one year ;
(iii) the Committee having acted in violation of objects of the Committee ;
(iv) a request being made to the Director by a number of members not less than one fourth
of the membership of the Committee stating that the Committee has failed to act for
the welfare of its membership.
 (2) The liquidator appointed under sub-Section 64.1 above shall have following powers :
(i) to determine any question of priority which arise among creditors of the Committee ;
(ii) to sell the assets of the Committee ;
(iii) to compromise any claim by or against the Committee provided the sanction of the
Registrar has first been obtained ;
(iv) to distribute assets of the Committee.
 (3) The notice of the closing of the liquidation shall be published in newspaper circulated in
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.
 (4) The funds of the Committee shall be applied first to the cost of liquidation then to the
discharge of liabilities of the Committee. Any surplus remaining after the application of the funds as
specified above shall be paid into the credit of the Provincial Irrigation Sustainable Maintenance Fund.
Restrictions in
entering into
Agreements.
Permission to
effect
rehabilitation of
irrigating works.
Power to make
regulations.
Cancellation of
registration and
liquidation.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
14A
PART VII
OFFENCES  AND  PENALTIES
63. (1) Any person who willfully or maliciously –
(i) blocks up ;
(ii) obstructs ;
(iii) encroaches upon or puts up unauthorized erections ;
(iv) causes to be encroached upon ;
(v) causes damages ;
(vi) wastes conserved water willfully or maliciously or obtains water without permission ;
(vii) cultivates in the connected areas ;
(viii) moves or causes to be moved earth or sand from connected areas ;
(ix) dumps in the connected areas earth or sand or any other similar things from outside ;
(x) dumps or causes to be dumped garbage ;
(xi) damages or causes damages using animals, vehicles or machinery ; any irrigation
work, watercourse, bund, tank, bank, tank access, irrigation pool, cannel, stream,
brook, fountain, water catchments, irrigation reservation, channel, beck, pit, river,
amuna, irrigation construction or agricultural roads ;
(xii) aids or supports to commit the above ;
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
 (2) Digging, constructing and maintaining a well for agricultural purposes in any identified
irrigation management system shall be an offence under this Statute unless it is done subject to the
conditions laid down by the Director of Irrigation Management.
 (3) It shall be an offence under this Statute to act against any decisions made at a Irrigation
Management and Development Committee meeting on agricultural activities.
64. Every person who commits an offence under this Statute or regulation made there under, and
shall on conviction after a summery trial before a  Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine or imprisonment.
65. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires :–
‘‘Provincial Council’’ means the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
‘‘Minister’’ means the Minister in - charge of the subject of  Irrigation of the Provincial Council
of the North Western Province ;
‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of the Minister in - charge of the subject or Irrigation of the
Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
‘‘Provincial Department of Irrigation’’ means the  North Western Provincial Department of
Irrigation ;
‘‘Director’’ means the North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation ;
‘‘Paddy land’’ means land which is cultivated with paddy or is prepared for the cultivation of
paddy or which, having at any time previously been cultivated with paddy, is suitable for the cultivation of
paddy, and includes such other land adjoining or appertaining thereto as may be used by the cultivator for
a threshing floor or for constructing his dwelling house ;
Offences
Penalties
Interpretation.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'20
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.2014
‘‘occupier’’ means a person who is  the owner or the lessee of the land or the cultivator of such
land having obtained it on mortgage or as a tenant nnd includes all persons who occupy or enjoy the
benefits of an agricultural land which is alienated under the Land Development Ordinance or under any
other Act and tenants ;
‘‘Irrigation’’ means all irrigation other than inter provincial irrigation as interpreted in the
Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution ;
‘‘Ellanga’’ means a region where there are feeding areas, conservation canals, streams, paddy
fields with all irrigation schemes and also a tank which before connecting with a river at the end, collects
water originated from a specific area with slops and following in one direction and over flowing with
excessive rains ;
‘‘Maintenance/Water/Plant Manager’’ means an owner, cultivator or a occupier elected from
and among owners, cultivators or a occupiers of the Irrigation Management and Development Committee
for the formulation of a systematic mechanism to promote agriculture for each of the aforesaid irrigation
system ‘
‘‘Portion’’ means the portion allotted in proportionate to the extent of land indicated in the
register of paddy land referred to in Section 47 of this Statute ;
‘‘Threshing floor’’ means a floor prepared or used, for threshing paddy through physical
exertion or using cattle or using machinery or for winnowing paddy or thershing paddy ;
‘‘Irrigation well’’ means a well of which the circumference is not less than 15 feet and the depth
from the ground level is not less than 20 feet with a fixed wall and used for drawing water periodically for
crop cultivation ;
‘‘Construction’’ means any improvement or extension of any irrigation work, repair or restoration
of any abandoned irrigation work, any operation for the protection of any irrigation work or irrigable area
thereunder or of any part of such work or area ;
‘‘Hut’’ means a temporary structure with no permanent roof which is built on four pillars with
no outer walls in a cultivated land to be used by the cultivator while attending to cultivation activities ;
‘‘agriculture’’ means the cultivation and conservation of all useful plants to ensure the food
and nutrition security of the public with or without commercial objcts ;
‘‘Vanatha’’ means the thicket that has grown in the land used for the agriculture and that
causes damages to the cultivation thereon ;
‘‘Sustainable maintenance’’ means the proper and systematic perpetual maintenance of the
relevanr irrigation ;
‘‘unauthorized construction’’ means any construction effected in connection with any irrigation
without the approval of the Province Director of Irrigation ;
‘‘Project’’ means a collective process designed for the realization of agricultural development
or any other specific objects implemented utilizing irrigation systems or alternate irrigation sources and the
physical and human resources within the stipulated time frame  and financial limits ; and
‘‘Programme’’ means a process comprising of serval projects implemented for the realization of
a speicfic objects utilizing Irrigation Schemes or alternate irrigation sources.
66. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute,
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
09 – 105
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.