

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1942$22 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'11'26
No. 1942/22  -  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER 26,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO.15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”),
the Institute has adopted the annual improvements to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 2015 and disclosure initiatives
(amendments to LKAS 1),  published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No.
15 of 1995. These changes shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of
January Two Thousand sixteen.
                  By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
       Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
MalalasekeraMawatha,
Colombo 07.
26
th November, 2015.
PG 2707 (2015/11)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
2A
Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2015
CONTENTS
STANDARDS ADDRESSED
SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
LKAS 19 Employee Benefits
LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
Standards addressed
The following table shows the topics addressed by these amendments.
Standard Subject of amendment
SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Changes in methods of disposal.
Discontinued Operations
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Servicing contracts.
Applicability of the amendments to SLFRS 7 to condensed interim
financial statements.
LKAS 19 Employee Benefits Discount rate: regional market issue.
LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Disclosure of information ‘elsewhere in the interim financial report’.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
3A
Amendments to
SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
Paragraphs 26–29 and their related heading are amended and paragraphs 26A and 44L are added.  New text is underlined.
Changes to a plan of sale or to a plan of distribution to owners
26 If an entity has classified an asset (or disposal group) as held for sale or as heldfor distribution to owners, but the
criteria in paragraphs 7–9 (for held for sale)or in paragraph 12A (for held for distribution to owners) are no longer
met, the entity shall cease to classify the asset (or disposal group) as held for sale or held for distribution to owners
(respectively). In such cases an entity shall follow the guidance in paragraphs 27–29 to account for this change
except when paragraph 26A applies.
26A If an entity reclassifies an asset (or disposal group) directly from being held for sale to being held for distribution to
owners, or directly from being held for distribution to owners to being held for sale, then the change in classification
is considered a continuation of the original plan of disposal.  The entity:
(a) shall not follow the guidance in paragraphs 27–29 to account for this change. The entity shall apply the
classification, presentation and measurement requirements in this SLFRS that are applicable to the new
method of disposal.
(b) shall measure the non-current asset (or disposal group) by following the requirements in paragraph 15 (if
reclassified as held for sale) or 15A (if reclassified as held for distribution to owners) and recognise any
reduction or increase in the fair value less costs to sell/costs to distribute of the non-current asset (or
disposal group) by following the requirements in paragraphs 20–25.
(c) shall not change the date of classification in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 12A. This does not preclude
an extension of the period required to complete a sale or a distribution to owners if the conditions in
paragraph 9 are met.
27 The entity shall measure a non-current asset (or disposal group) that ceases to be classified as held for sale or as
held for distribution to owners (or ceases to be included in a disposal group classified as held for sale or as held for
distribution to owners) at the lower of:
(a) its carrying amount before the asset (or disposal group) was classified as held for sale or as held for
distribution to owners, adjusted for any depreciation, amortisation or revaluations that would have been
recognised had the asset (or disposal group) not been classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to
owners, and
(b) its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell or distribute.  [footnote omitted]
28 The entity shall include any required adjustment to the carrying amount of a non-current asset that ceases to be
classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners in profit or loss [footnote omitted] from continuing
operations in the period in which the criteria in paragraphs 7–9 or 12A,respectively, are no longer met. Financial
statements for the periods since classification as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners shall be amended
accordingly if the disposal group or non-current asset that ceases to be classified as held for sale or as held for
distribution to owners is a subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture, associate, or a portion of an interest in a joint
venture or an associate. The entity shall present that adjustment in the same caption in the statement of comprehensive
income used to present a gain or loss, if any, recognised in accordance with paragraph 37.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
4A
29 If an entity removes an individual asset or liability from a disposal group classified as held for sale, the remaining
assets and liabilities of the disposal group to be sold shall continue to be measured as a group only if the group
meets the criteria in paragraphs 7–9. If an entity removes an individual asset or liability from a disposal group
classified as held for distribution to owners, the remaining assets and liabilities of the disposal group to be distributed
shall continue to be measured as a group only if the group meets the criteria in paragraph 12A. Otherwise, the
remaining non-current assets of the group that individually meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or as
held for distribution to owners) shall be measured individually at the lower of their carrying amounts and fair values
less costs to sell (or costs to distribute) at that date. Any non-current assets that do not meet the criteria for held for
sale shall cease to be classified as held for sale in accordance with paragraph 26.
 Any non-current assets  that do  not
meet  the  criteria for  held for  distribution  to owners shall cease to be classified as held for distribution to owners
in accordance with paragraph 26.
...
Effective date
...
44L Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2015 , amended paragraphs 26–29 and added paragraph 26A. An entity shall
apply those amendments prospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors to changes in a method of disposal that occur in annual periods beginning on or after 1
January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall
disclose that fact.
Amendments to
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Paragraph 44R is amended and paragraph 44AA is added.  Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.
Effective date and transition
…
44R Disclosures—Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to SLFRS 7), added  paragraphs
13A–13F  and  B40–B53.  An  entity shall   apply   those   amendments   for   annual   periods   beginning   on   or   after
1 January 2013 and interim periods within those annual periods. An entity shall provide  the  disclosures  required
by  those  amendments  retrospectively.
...
44AA Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2015 , amended paragraphs 44R and B30 and added paragraph B30A. An entity
shall apply those amendments retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on or after1 January 2016, except that an entity need
not apply the amendments to paragraphs B30 and B30A for any period presented that begins before the annual
period for which the entity first applies those amendments.  Earlier applicationof the amendments to paragraphs 44R,
B30 and B30A is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
In Appendix B, paragraph B30 is amended and paragraph B30A is added.  New text is underlined.
Continuing involvement (paragraph 42C)
…

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
5A
B30 An entity does not have a continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, it neither
retains any of the contractual rights or obligations inherent  in  the  transferred  financial  asset nor  acquires  any
new contractual rights or obligations relating to the transferred financial asset. An entity does not have continuing
involvement in a transferred financial asset if it has neither an interest in the future performance of the transferred
financial asset nor a responsibility under any circumstances to make payments in respect of the transferred financial
asset in the future. The term ‘payment’ in this context does not include cash flows of the transferred financial asset
that an entity collects and is required to remit to the transferee.
B30A When an entity transfers a financial asset, the entity may retain the right toservice that financial asset for a fee that
is included in, for example, a servicing contract. The entity assesses the servicing contract in accordance with the
guidance  in  paragraphs  42C  and  B30  to  decide  whether  the  entity  has continuing involvement as a result of
the servicing contract for the purposes of the disclosure requirements. For example, a servicer will have continuing
involvement in the transferred financial asset for the purposes of the disclosure requirements if the servicing fee is
dependent on the amount or timing of the cash flows collected from the transferred financial asset. Similarly, a
servicer has continuing involvement for the purposes of  the disclosure requirements if afixed fee would not be paid
in full because of non-performance of the transferred financial asset. In these examples, the servicer has an interest
in the future performance of the transferred financial asset. This assessment is independent of whether the fee to be
received is expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing the servicing.
Consequential amendment to
SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
Paragraph 39AA is added.  New text is underlined.
Effective date
...
39AA Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2015 , added paragraph E4A. An entity shall apply that amendment for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for
an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
In Appendix E, paragraph E4A is added.  New text is underlined.
Disclosures about financial instruments
...
E4A A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in paragraph 44AA of SLFRS 7.
Amendment to
LKAS 19 Employee Benefits
Paragraph 83 is amended and paragraphs 176–177 are added.  Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
6A
Actuarial assumptions: discount rate
83 The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations (both funded and unfunded) shall be determined by
reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds. In For countries
currencies where for which there is no deep market in such high quality corporate bonds, the market yields (at the
end of the reporting period) on government bonds denominated in that currency shall be used. The currency and
term of the corporate bonds or government bonds shall be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the
post-employment benefit obligations.
...
Transition and effective date
…
176 Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2015 , amended paragraph 83 and added paragraph 177. An entity shall apply that
amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity
applies that amendment for an earlier  period  it  shall disclose that fact.
177 An entity shall apply the amendment in paragraph 176 from the beginning of the earliest comparative period
presented in the first financial statements in which the entity applies the amendment. Any initial adjustment arising
from the application of the amendment shall be recognised in retained earnings at the beginning of that period.
Amendment to
LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
Paragraph 16A is amended and paragraph 56 is added.  Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.
Other disclosures
16A In addition to disclosing significant events and transactions in accordance with paragraphs 15–15C, an entity
shall include the following information, in the notes to its interim financial statements, if not disclosed or elsewhere
in the interim financial report. The following disclosures shall be given either in the interim financial statements
or incorporated by cross-reference from the interim financial statements to some other statement (such as
management commentary or risk report) that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms
as the interim financial statements and at the same time. If users of the financial statements do not have access to
the information incorporated by cross-reference on the same terms and at the same time, the interim financial
report  is  incomplete. The information shall normally be reported on a financial year-to-date basis.
(a) ...
Effective date
...
56 Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2015 , amended paragraph 16A. An entity shall apply that amendment
retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting  Estimates and Errors for
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the amendment
for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
7A
Disclosure Initiative
(Amendments to LKAS 1)
CONTENTS
AMENDMENTS  TO  LKAS 1
PRESENTATION  OF  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS
 CONSEQUENTIAL  AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  GUIDANCE  ON  IMPLEMENTING
OTHER STANDARDS

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
8A
Amendments to
LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
Paragraphs 10, 31, 54–55, 82A, 85, 113–114, 117, 119 and 122 are amended, paragraphs 30A, 55A, 85A–85B and 139P are
added and paragraphs 115 and 120 are deleted. Paragraphs 29–30, 112, 116, 118 and 121 have not been amended but are
included for ease of reference. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.
Complete set of financial statements
10 A complete set of financial statements comprises:
(a) a statement of financial position as at the end of the period;
(b) a statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the period;
(c) a statement of changes in equity for the period;
(d) a statement of cash flows for the period;
(e) notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information;
(ea) comparative information in respect of the preceding period as specified in paragraphs 38 and 38A; and
(f) a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an
accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial statements,
or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements in accordance with paragraphs 40A–40D.
An entity may use titles for the statements other than those used in this Standard. For example, an entity may use the title
‘statement of comprehensive income’ instead of ‘statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income’.
…
Materiality and aggregation
29 An entity shall present separately each material class of similar items. An entity shall present separately items of
a dissimilar nature or functionunless they are immaterial.
30 Financial statements result from processing large numbers of transactions or other events that are aggregated into
classes according to their nature or function. The final stage in the process of aggregation and classification is the
presentation of condensed and classified data, which form line items in the financial statements. If a line item is not
individually material, it is aggregated with other items either in those statements or in the notes. An item that is not
sufficiently material to warrant separate presentation in those statements may warrant separate presentation in the
notes.
30A When applying this and other SLFRSs an entity shall decide, taking into consideration all relevant facts and
circumstances, how it aggregates information in the financial statements, which include the notes. An entity shall
not reduce the understandability of its financial statements by obscuring material information with immaterial
information or by aggregating material items that have different natures or functions.
31 Some SLFRSs specify information that is required to be included in the financial statements, which include the
notes. An entity need not provide a specific disclosure required by an SLFRS if the information resulting from that
disclosure is not material. This is the case even if the SLFRS contains a list of specific requirements or describes
them as minimum requirements. An entity shall also consider whether to provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific requirements in SLFRS is insufficient to enable users of financial statements to understand
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial
performance.
...

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
9A
Information to be presented in the statement of financial position
54 As a minimum,  The statement of financial position shall include line items that present the following amounts:
(a)  ...
55 An entity shall present additional line items (including by disaggregating the line items listed in paragraph 54),
headings and subtotals in the statement of financial position when such presentation is relevant to an understanding
of the entity’s financial position.
55A When an entity presents subtotals in accordance with paragraph 55, those subtotals shall:
(a) be comprised of line items made up of amounts recognised and measured in accordance with SLFRS;
(b) be presented and labelled in a manner that makes the line items the constitute the subtotal clear and
understandable;
(c) be consistent from period to period, in accordance with paragraph 45; and
(d) not be displayed with more prominence than the sub totals and totals required in SLFRS for the statement of
financial position.
...
Information to be presented in the other comprehensive income section
82A The other comprehensive income section shall present line items for the amounts  of other comprehensive income
in the period, classified by nature (including share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint
ventures accounted for using the equity method) and grouped into those that, in accordance with other SLFRSs for
the period of:
 (a)
items of other comprehensive income (excluding amounts in paragraph (b)), classified by nature and grouped
into those that, in accordance with other SLFRSs:
(a)(i) will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and
(b)(ii) will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.
(b) the share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity
method, separated into the share of items that, in accordance with other SLFRSs:
(i) will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and
(ii) will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.
...
85 An entity shall present additional line items (including by disaggregating the line items listed in paragraph 82),
headings and subtotals in the statement(s) presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income when such
presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entity’s financial performance.
85A When an entity presents subtotals in accordance with paragraph 85, those subtotals shall:
 (a) be comprised of line items made up of amounts recognised and measured in accordance with SLFRS;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
10A
 (b) be presented and labelled in a manner that makes the line items that constitute the subtotal clear and
understandable;
 (c) be consistent from period to period, in accordance with paragraph 45; and
 (d) not be displayed with more prominence than the subtotals and totals required in SLFRS for the statement(s)
presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
85B An entity shall present the line items in the statement(s) presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income
that reconcile any subtotals presented in accordance with paragraph 85 with the subtotals or totals required in
SLFRS for such statement(s).
...
Structure
112 The notes shall:
 (a) present information about the basis of preparation of the financial statements and the specific accounting
policies used in accordance with paragraphs 117–124;
 (b) disclose the information required by SLFRSs that is not presented elsewhere in the financial statements;
and
 (c) provide information that is not presented elsewhere in the financial statements, but is relevant to an
understanding of any of them.
113 An entity shall, as far as practicable, present notes in a systematic manner. In determining a systematic manner,
the entity shall consider the effect on the understandability and comparability of its financial statements. An entity
shall cross-reference each item in the statements of financial position and in the statement(s) of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, and in the statements of changes in equity and of cash flows to any related information
in the notes.
114 An entity normally presents notes in the following order, to assist users to understand the financial statements and
to compare them with financial statements of other entities: Examples of systematic ordering or grouping of the
notes include:
 (a) giving prominence to the areas of its activities that the entity considers to be most relevant to an understanding
of its financial performance and financial position, such as grouping together information about particular
operating activities;
(b) grouping together information about items measured similarly  such as assets measured at fair value; or
(c) following the order of the line items in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income and
the statement of financial position, such as:
(a)
(i) statement of compliance with SLFRSs (see paragraph 16);
(b)(ii) summary of significant accounting policies applied (see paragraph 117);
(c)(iii) supporting information for items presented in the statements of financial position and in the
statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, and in the statements of changes in
equity and of cash flows, in the order in which each statement and each line item is presented; and

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
11A
(d)(iv) other disclosures, including:
(i)(1) contingent liabilities (see LKAS 37) and unrecognized contractual commitments,; and
(ii) (2) non-financial disclosures, eg the entity’s financial risk management objectives and policies
(see SLFRS 7).
115 [Deleted]In some circumstances, it may be necessary or desirable to vary the order of specific items within the
notes. For example, an entity may combine information on changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss with
information on maturities of financial instruments, although the former disclosures relate to the statement(s) presenting
profit or loss and other comprehensive income and the latter relate to the statement of financial position. Nevertheless,
an entity retains a systematic structure for the notes as far as practicable.
116 An entity may present notes providing information about the basis of preparation of the financial statements and
specific accounting policies as a separate section of the financial statements.
Disclosure of accounting policies
117 An entity shall disclose in the summary of its significant accounting policies comprising:
 (a) the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements; and
 (b) the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements.
118 It is important for an entity to inform users of the measurement basis or bases used in the financial statements (for
example, historical cost, current cost, net realisable value, fair value or recoverable amount) because the basis on
which an entity prepares the financial statements significantly affects users’ analysis. When an entity uses more
than one measurement basis in the financial statements, for example when particular classes of assets are revalued,
it is sufficient to provide an indication of the categories of assets and liabilities to which each measurement basis is
applied.
119 In deciding whether a particular accounting policy should be disclosed, management considers whether disclosure
would assist users in understanding how transactions, other events and conditions are reflected in reported
financial performance and financial position. 
Each entity considers the nature of its operations and the policies that
the users of its financial statements would expect to be disclosed for that type of entity . Disclosure of particular
accounting policies is especially useful to users when those policies are selected from alternatives allowed in
SLFRSs. An example is disclosure of whether an entity applies the fair value or cost model to its investment property
(see LKAS 40 Investment Property). Some SLFRSs specifically require disclosure of particular accounting policies,
including choices made by management between different policies they allow. For example, LKAS 16 requires
disclosure of the measurement bases used for classes of property, plant and equipment.
120 [Deleted] Each entity considers the nature of its operations and the policies that the users of its financial statements
would expect to be disclosed for that type of entity. For example, users would expect an entity subject to income
taxes to disclose its accounting policies for income taxes, including those applicable to deferred tax liabilities and
assets. When an entity has significant foreign operations or transactions in foreign currencies, users would expect
disclosure of accounting policies for the recognition of foreign exchange gains and losses.
121 An accounting policy may be significant because of the nature of the entity’s operations even if amounts for current
and prior periods are not material. It is also appropriate to disclose each significant accounting policy that is not
specifically required by SLFRSs but the entity selects and applies in accordance with LKAS 8.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
12A
122 An entity shall disclose, in the summary of along with its significant accounting policies or other notes, the
judgements, apart from those involving estimations (see paragraph 125), that management has made in the
process of applying the entity’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements.
...
Transition and effective date
...
139P Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), amended paragraphs 10, 31, 54–55, 82A, 85, 113–114, 117, 119 and
122, added paragraphs 30A, 55A and 85A–85B and deleted paragraphs 115 and 120. An entity shall apply those
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. Entities are not
required to disclose the information required by paragraphs 28–30 of LKAS 8 in relation to these amendments.
Consequential amendments to other Standards
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Paragraph 21 is amended and paragraph 44BB is added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.
Accounting policies
21 In accordance with paragraph 117 of LKAS 1Presentation of Financial Statements (as revised in 2007), an entity
discloses, in the summary of its significant accounting policies, comprising the measurement basis (or bases) used
in preparing the financial statements and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding
of the financial statements.
...
Effective date and transition
...
44BB Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), amended paragraphs 21 and B5. An entity shall apply those
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application of those amendments is
permitted.
In Appendix B, paragraph B5 is amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.
Other disclosure – accounting policies (paragraph 21)
B 5 Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements and
the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements. For financial
instruments, such disclosure may include:
(a)  ...
Paragraph 122 of LKAS 1 also requires entities to disclose, in the summary of along with its significant accounting
policies or other notes, the judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management has made in the
process of applying the entity’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
13A
LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
Paragraph 5 is amended and paragraph 57 is added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.
Content of an interim financial report
5 LKAS 1 defines a complete set of financial statements as including the following components:
...
(e) notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information;
...
Effective date
...
57 Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), amended paragraph 5. An entity shall apply that amendment for
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application of that amendment is permitted.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.