

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 16.25  Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 23rd September, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SRI  LANKA  ACCREDITATION  BOARD  FOR
CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT
ACT,  No.  32  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
1
[Certified on 23rd September, 2005]
L. D. — O. 60/98
A
N   ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  SRI LANKA
A CCREDITATION   BOARD  FOR  CONFORMITY  ASSESSMENT ; AND  TO  PROVIDE
FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of  Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Sri  Lanka  Accreditation
Board  for Conformity   Assessment Act,  No. 32 of  2005.
PART  I
   ESTABLISHMENT   OF  THE   SRI  LANKA   ACCREDITATION  BOARD
FOR  CONFORMITY  ASSESSMENT
2.  (1) There shall  be established a  Board which shall
be called the Sri Lanka  Accreditation Board for Conformity
Assessment (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).  The Board
shall be the national accreditation authority for Sri Lanka.
(2) The Board shall by the name assigned to it  by
subsection (1) be a body corporate  with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate
name.
3. The functions of the Board shall be —
(a) to grant accreditation, in accordance with national
standards based on the relevant international
standards, to laboratories, certification and
inspection bodies, training institutions and other
persons required to carry out conformity
assessments;
(b) to promote accreditation  activities in conformity
with the guidelines laid down in the National
Quality Policy as approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers;
Short title.
Establishment of
the Sri Lanka
Accreditation
Board for
Conformity
Assessment.
Functions of
the Board.
2—P L 000297-5,650-(05/2005)

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
2
(c) to ensure competence in internationally accepted
accreditation practices and to facilitate international
co-operation  in  accreditation;
(d) to encourage and promote the use of accreditation,
the training of assessors, the conduct of seminars,
and the dissemination of information, on
accreditation;
(e) to conclude agreements on  mutual recognition with
regard to areas related or connected to accreditation
with foreign and international bodies ; and
(f) to do all such other acts as may be necessary or
conducive in discharging any or all of the above
functions.
4. The Board shall have and may exercise all or any of the
following powers -
(a) to hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any moveable
or immovable property;
(b) to undertake to execute any trusts, or any agency
business which may seem to the Board conducive
to the discharge of its  functions;
(c) to borrow and raise loans for the discharge of its
functions and for the  purpose of  raising such loans
to offer by way of mortgage or collateral,  such
property owned by the Board, as is considered
necessary;
(d) to invest any moneys of the Board not immediately
required for the discharge of  its functions in such
manner as may, from time to time be determined by
the Board;
Powers
of the Board.

<!-- page 4 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
3
(e) to charge such fees as may be determined by the
Board for any services rendered by the Board ;
(f) to enter into such contracts as may be necessary for
the discharge of its functions; and
(g) to do all such other things as are necessary for, or
incidental, or conducive to the discharge of the
functions of the Board.
5. (1) The Board shall have a Governing Council (herein-
after referred to as “the Council”), consisting of thirteen
members appointed by the Minister, of whom -
(a) three  members shall be from amongst persons  who
have distinguished themselves in  the fields of
science, technology, education, trade, industry or
administration or any other relevant field.
(b) one member who shall be the representative of the
Sri Lanka Standards Institution established  by the
Sri Lanka  Standards Institution Act, No.6 of 1984,
nominated by the Chairman of that Institution;
(c) one member who shall be the representative of the
Ministry of the  Minister in charge of the subject
of Science and Technology  and the Departments
and statutory bodies  assigned to such Minister,
appointed in consultation with that Minister;
(d) one member who shall be the representative of the
General Treasury,  appointed in consultation with
the  Minister in charge of the subject of Finance;
(e) one member who shall be the representative of the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Trade and the Departments and statutory bodies
assigned to such Minister, appointed in
consulation with that Minister;
Governing Cocncil.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
4
(f) one member who shall be the representative of the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Industrial Development and  the Departments and
statutory bodies assigned to such Minister,
appointed in consultation with that Minister;
(g) one member who shall be the representative of the
Ministry  of the Minister  in charge of the subject of
Health and the Departments and statutory bodies
assigned to suchMinister, appointed in consultation
with that Minister;
(h) one member who shall be the representative of the
Department of Measurement Units, Standards and
Services, appointed in consultation with the Minister,
to whom that Department has been assigned;
(i) one member who shall be the representative of the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Agriculture and the Departments and statutory
bodies assigned to such Minister, appointed in
consultation with that Minister ;
(j) one member to be selected by the Minister from a
panel of three names submitted to the Minister, by
the National Academy of Sciences, Sri Lanka; and
(k) one member to be selected by the Minister from a
panel of three names submitted to the Minister, by
the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and
Industry.
(2) Where a member of the Council is, by reason of
illness, absence from Sri Lanka, or for any other cause,
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, for a
period exceeding three months, the Minister may, on the
recommendation of the Chairman and having regard to the
provisions of subsection (1), appoint some other person to
act in his place.
(3) The exercise of the powers of the Board and the
general superindence, direction and management of affairs
of the Board, shall vest with  the Council.
6. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of
the Council as the Chairman of the Council.
 Chairman and
Vice Chairman of
the Council.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
5
(2)   The functions of the Chairman shall be to guide the
Council in its activities and to preside at the meetings of the
Council.
    (3)   The Minister shall appoint one of the members of the
Council  as the Vice Chairman of the  Council. The Vice
Chairman shall perform the duties of the Chairman in the
absence of the Chairman or whenever there is a vacancy in
the office of the Chairman.
7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a  member of the Council if he -
 (a) is a member of Parliament, a member of a Provincial
Council or a member of a local authority;
 (b) directly or indirectly, by himself or by any other
person on his behalf, holds or enjoys any right or
benefit under any contract made by or on behalf of
the Board;
(c) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind;
(d) is a person who, having been declared an insolvent,
or a bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or
in any other country, is an undischarged insolvent
or bankrupt; or
 (e) is a person who has been convicted of any offence
by any court in Sri Lanka or any other country.
8. (1) A member of the  Council  may  resign from office
by a letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister.
    (2) The Minister may for reasons assigned,  remove any
member of the Council from office.
Term of office  of
members of
the Council.
Disqualification
for being a
member of the
Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
6
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsections  (1) and
(2) the term of office of a member of the Council shall be
three years :
  Provided that a member of the Council appointed in place
of a member who dies, resigns or is removed from  office,
shall hold office for the remainder of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
(4) The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Council may
resign from the offices respectively, of Chairman and Vice
Chairman, by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister
and the resignation shall be effective from the date on which
such letter is accepted by the Minister.
(5) The Minister may for reasons assigned, remove the
Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Council from the offices
respectively, of Chairman and Vice Chairman.
(6) Subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5),
the terms of office of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the
Council shall be their respective periods of membership of
the Council.
9.  A member of the Council who vacates office by
affluxion of time shall be eligible for re-appointment.
10.  All members of the Council  may be paid
remuneration out of the Fund of the Board at such rates as the
Minister may determine with the concurrence of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.
11. (1) Five members shall form a quorum for any
meeting of the Council.
 (2) If at least five members of the Council are present in
Sri Lanka, any question may be decided by the circulation of
the relevant papers to the members present in Sri Lanka and
by such members recording, in writing, their views  thereon
Eligibility for
re-appointment.
Remuneration
of members of the
Council
Meetings of
the Council

<!-- page 8 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
7
and by their recording their votes on that question in the
presence of each other and in every  such case, a report of
such question, views and votes shall be recorded in the
minutes book of the Council.  If there is an equality of such
votes, such question shall be submitted for decision to a
meeting of the Council.
(3) Subject to the other provisions of this section, the
Council may regulate the procedure with  regard to its
meetings and the transaction of  business at such meetings.
(4) No act, decision or proceedings of the Council shall
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of
any vacancy in the Council or any defect in the appointment
of a member thereof.
12 . (1)  The affixing of the seal of the Board to any
instrument, other than an instrument referred to in subsection
(2), shall be in the presence of, and be attested by—
(a) the Chairman of the Council and the Director; or
(b) the Chairman of the Council or the Director and
any other  member of the Council; or
(c) the Director and such officer or servant of the Board
as  may have been specially authorized by the
Council to act on its behalf.
(2)    The affixing of the seal of the Board to an instrument
containing an agreement for the rendering of any service by
the Board shall be in the presence of, and be attested by, the
Director or in his absence, by any officer or servant of the
Board who has been specially authorized, by the Council to
act on its  behalf.
13. (1)   The Council  may delegate any of its powers
and duties, to the Director,  a  member of  the  Council  or  to
any  committee appointed  under this Act, or to any officer or
servant of the Board.
Seal.
Delegation of
powers and duties
of the Council.

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
8
(2)   The Director,  member of the Council or officer or
servant of the Board or committee to whom any of the powers
and duties of the Council have been delegated under
subsection (1), shall exercise and perform the powers and
duties so delegated, subject to the special or general directions
of the Council.
14. (1)  The  Council may appoint committees to assist it
in the performance of its duties consisting of such persons
(whether officers or  servants of the Board or not) as it   considers
necessary to be members of any such committee.
(2) The Council  may assign to a committee so
appointed such of its powers as it may deem fit, but may
exercise any powers so assigned, notwithstanding such
assignment. The Council  may amend or revoke any decision
made by any such committee.
(3) The members of every such committee may be
paid out of the Fund of the Board, such remuneration and
allowances as the Council may determine with the concurrence
of the Minister.
PART  II
                                     A
CCREDITA TION
15. The Minister may make regulations specifying the
criteria and requirements for accreditation of  laboratories,
certification and inspection bodies, training institutions and
other persons required to carry out conformity assessments.
16. The Administrative Officer or Chief Executive
Officer as the case may be, of a laboratory or a certification or
inspection body, training institution or any person required
to carry out conformity assessments may apply to the Board
for accreditation to carry out the tests or other activities
required by this Act, in the manner and form as shall be
prescribed by regulations made in that behalf.
Appointment of
Committees.
Determination of
criteria &c.
for accreditation.
Application for
Accreditation to be
in prescribed
form.

<!-- page 10 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
9
17. Where the Board is satisfied, after consideration of
the applications forwarded to it under section 16 by any
laboratory, certification or inspection body, training
institution, or person seeking accreditation and upon such
examinations and assessments as it may consider necessary
and after consultation with the relevant committee appointed
under section 14, that the applicant satisfies  the criteria and
requirements for accreditation prescribed under section 15,
the Board shall grant accreditation to such laboratory,
certification or inspection body, training institution or person,
as the case may be.
18. (1) Where the Board grants accreditation to a
laboratory, certification or inspection body, training
institution or other person required to carry out conformity
assessments, under section 17,  it shall issue a Certificate
signed by the Director, specifying the tests or other activities
which such laboratory, certification or inspection body,
training institution or person is accredited, to carry out or
perform, and also permit such laboratory, certification or
inspection body, training institution or person to use the
prescribed Accreditation Mark, in the manner hereinafter set
out.
(2)   The Certificate issued under subsection (1), shall be
prominently displayed in the -
(a) laboratory; or
(b) registered place of business of the certification or
inspection body,  training institution or person, as
the case may be, of the institution to whom or the
person to whom such Certificate has been issued.
    (3) (a) Subject to the provisions of the Intellectual
Property Act, No. 36 of 2003, no person other than a laboratory,
certification  or inspection body, training institution or person,
granted accreditation under section 17 shall use the prescribed
Accreditation Mark.
Grant of
Accreditation
Certificate and use
of   Accreditation
Mark.

<!-- page 11 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
10
(b)   A laboratory, certification or inspection body, training
instituton or person may use the prescribed Accreditation Mark
for so long only as the accreditation granted to it under section
17 is in force and only in relation to the tests and other specific
activities it is accredited to carry out or perform under this
section.
19. It shall be the duty of a laboratory, a certification or
inspection body, training institution or other person, granted
accreditation under section 17, to forthwith inform the Board,
of any changes in its status or operations.
20. (1)   Where the Board is satisfied —
(a) that any laboratory, certification or
inspection body, training institution or
person granted accreditation under section
17, no longer satisfies the criteria and
requirements  prescribed under section 15
for accreditation; or
(b) that there is a false statement in, or the
omission of any material particular  from,
the application for accreditation made in
respect of such laboratory,certification or
inspection body, training institution or a
person, as the case may be, or in any other
document submitted in connection with
such application,
the Board  may suspend or revoke the accreditation granted to
such laboratory, certification or inspection body, training
institution or  person, as the case may be, and shall forthwith
inform such laboratory,   certification or inspection body,
training institution or person, as the case may be, of such
suspension or revocation, as the case may be.
(2) Any person aggrieved by an order of suspension or
revocation made under subsection (1) may, appeal therefrom
to the Council in the prescribed manner and within the
prescribed period. The decision of the Council on any such
appeal shall be final .
Suspension
and
revocation of
Accreditation.
Duty to inform
Board, of changes
in status &c.

<!-- page 12 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
11
21. The Board shall maintain a Register of the
laboratories, certification and inspection bodies, training
institutions and persons granted accreditation under section
17, and of the tests and the scope of the activities which such
laboratories, certification and inspection bodies, training
institutions and persons are accredited to carry out or perform.
PART III
S
TAFF   OF   THE   BOARD
22. (1) The  Minister  shall  in consultation with the
Council appiont a person who is suitably  qualified in the
field  of  Science and Technology to be the Director  of the
Board (in this Act referred to as "the Director" ).
(2) The terms and conditions of employment of the
Director  shall be determined by the Minister.
(3) The remuneration of the Director shall be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(4) Whenever the Director  is by reason of illness or
absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, unable to
perform the duties of  his office, the Minister may appoint
another person to act in his place, during  such absence.
(5) The functions of the Director, who shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Board, shall be to organize, and
direct the work of the Board under the directions of and in
accordance with the policies adopted by the Council and he
shall function as the Secretary to the Council.
23. The Council shall have the power to appoint, and
exercise disciplinary control (including dismissal) over the
officers and servants of the Board, other than the Director.
Director of the
Board.
Power of  the
Council  to
exercise
disciplinary
control over
officers and
servants
of  the Board.
Board to
maintain a register.

<!-- page 13 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
12
24. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), the
Council may delegate to the Director all or any of its powers
relating to the appointment and dismissal, of other officers or
servants of the Board.  The conditions of employment,
including remuneration, of every officer or servant appointed
by the Director in the exercise of the powers delegated to him
hereunder, shall be determined by him with the concurrence
of the Council.
(2) The Director shall not, except with the prior approval
of the Board, appoint, any person who is not a citizen of Sri
Lanka, as an officer or servant of the Board.
(3) The dismissal by the Director of any officer or servant
of the Board, shall be with the prior approval of the Board.
25. (1)  The Director shall, with the approval of the
Council appoint  a panel of Assessors from amongst officers
and servants of the Board or any other persons who are suitably
qualified, to function as Assessors for the purpose of making
the assessments required under the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Director shall, with the approval of the Council
lay down the  procedure for the selection of Assessors from
the  Panel of Assessors, to function in respect of any particular
assignment.
(3)   Every Assessor shall be issued with a letter of
appointment by the Board  to the effect that he has been
appointed as an Assessor for the purposes of this Act.
(4)  A person  who has been appointed as an Assessor in
terms of the provisions of this section may be paid out of the
Fund of the Board, remuneration or allowances in respect of
assignments carried out by him,  at such rates as may be
determined by the Director with the concurrence of the
Council.
Appointment
of Assessors.
Delegation of
powers of the
Council.

<!-- page 14 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
13
PART  IV
FINANCE
26. (1) The Board shall have its  own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Board—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted by
Parliament, for the use of the Board;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received
by the Board in respect of services rendered
by it under this Act;
(c) all such sums of money as may be received
by the Board as donations or grants from
any source whatsoever, whether in Sri Lanka
or abroad;
(d) all such sums of money as may be received
by the Board in the exercise of its' powers,
and the performance of its' duties, under this
Act, including any sums of money realized
by the sale of any movable or immovable
property of the Board.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Board -
(a) all such sums of money as are required to
defray any expenditure incurred by the Board
in the exercise of its' powers and the
performance of its' duties, under this Act; and
(b) all such sums of money as are required, by
any provision of this Act, to be paid out of
the Fund of the Board; and
(c) all such sums as are required under the
Employees Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of
1958 and the Employees Trust Fund Act,
No. 46 of 1980 to be paid as contributions
respectively, to the Employees Provident
Fund and the Employees Trust Fund
established by the aforesaid Acts.
Fund of the
Board.

<!-- page 15 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
14
27. The Board shall cause to be prepared, a budget in
respect of every financial year and such budget shall be
approved by the Council not later than three months prior to
the commencement of the financial year to which the budget
relates.
28. Subject to the provisions of any regulations made
under section 39, the Board may, in respect of any services
rendered by it under this Act, charge such fees as may be
prescribed.
29. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Council shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions, of the Board.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Board.
(4) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of
1971, shall mutatis mutandis apply to, and in relation to, the
Board.
(5) The Council shall be responsible for the submission
of final accounts and the annual reports in due time in
accordance with the provisions of the Finance Act, No.38 of
1971.
PART  V
G ENERAL
30. Every member of the Council or any Committee
thereof, every officer and servant of the Board and every
Assesor appointed under this Act shall, before entering upon
Secrecy.
Charging  fees
for services
rendered.
Financial year
and the audit
of  accounts.
Budget of the
Board.

<!-- page 16 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
15
his duties sign a declaration pledging not to disclose any
matter which may come to his knowledge in the exercise and
performance of his powers and duties under this Act except -
(a) when required to do so by a court of law;
(b) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or other written law.
31. All members of the Council, officers and servants of
the Board and all assessors appointed under this Act shall be
deemed to be public officers within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.
32. The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
33. (1) No action or prosecution shall be instituted —
(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is
done or purported to be done by the Board under
this Act;
(b) against any member of the  Council, any officer or
servant of the Board or a member of any committee
thereof or any assessor appointed under this Act for
any act which in good faith is done, or purported to
be done, by him under this Act or on the direction of
the Board or Council.
(2) Any expenses incurred by the Board or the Council
in any action or prosecution instituted by or against the Board
or Council in any Court shall be paid out of the Fund of the
Board and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Board or the
Council in any such action or prosecution shall be credited
to the Fund of the Board.
Members of the
Council and
Board
Board to be a
scheduled
institution within
the meaning  of
the Bribery Act.
Protection of
action  taken
under this Act.

<!-- page 17 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
16
(3) Any expenses incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), in any action or
prosecution instituted against him in respect of any act done,
or purported to be done, by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Board or the Council shall be paid out of the
Fund of the Board if the court held that the act was done in
good faith, unless such expense is recovered by him in such
action or prosecution.
34. An officer of the Board or an Assessor appointed
under this Act, authorized in writing by the Board, may enter
the registered place of business of any person granted
accreditation under section 17, and—
(a) make such inquiries and investigations thereon in
so far as it is required for the purpose of ascertaining
whether the criteria for accreditation has been
satisfied ; or
(b) require such person to furnish such information or
returns as may be necessry to ascertain whether he
is complying with the provisions of this Act and
the regulations made thereunder or the terms of
the Certificate issued to him under section 18.
35. Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
of section 36, no person shall carry on any activity, business,
trade or occupation under any name assinged to the Board by
subsection (1) of section 2 this Act, or under any acronym
thereof.
36. (1)   Except with the written approval of the Minister
and subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3)—
(a)   no trade mark, device, brand, heading, label, ticket,
pictorial representation, name, signature, letter,
numeral or any combination thereof which contains
the words "Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for
Conformity Assessment" or any other name or
acronym adopted by the Board shall be registered
under the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 ;
Powers of
entry.
Prohibition of the
use of any name
assigned to the
Board by the Act.
Restrictions on the
use of the words
‘Sri Lanka
Accreditation
Board for
Conformity
Assessment’ or
‘Accreditation’.

<!-- page 18 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
17
(b) no person shall unless granted accreditation under
section 17, sell any commodity or product or offer
any service or facility under a mark which contains
the word "Accreditation" or under a description in
which that word is used in such a manner as may
create the impression that such person has been
granted accreditation under section 17.
(2) Any person who on date of commencement of this
Act carried on any activity, business, trade or occupation, or
is registered under any such name as is referred to in section
(35) may, notwithstanding the provisions of section (35),
continue to carry on such activity, business, trade or
occupation or be registered, as the case may be, under such
name.
(3) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection
(1) shall not affect any trade mark registered on the date of
the  commencement of this Act, or the sale of any commodity
or product under any such trade mark.
(4) The Minister may at any time withdraw any approval
given by him under subsection (1) if, in his opinion, it is
necessary to do so in order to avoid abuse.
37. Any person who —
(a) contravenes the provisions of subsection (3) of
section 18 ;
(b) contravenes the provisions of section 30 or  section
35 or paragraphs (a) or (b) of subsection (1) of section
36 ;
(c) resists or obstructs a member of the Council or an
officer of the Board or an Assessor appointed under
this Act in the exercise by such officer or Assessor,
of the powers conferred on him by the Act ; or
Offences.

<!-- page 19 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
18
(d) wilfully makes any false statement in, or omits any
material particular from, any return or information
furnished by him under section 34,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
38. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
provisions of any other law, every person guilty of an offence
under this Act shall, on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate, be liable -
(a) in the case of an offence referred to in paragraph (a)
or (c) or (d) of section 37, to a fine not less than ten
thousand rupees and not exceeding five hundred
thousand rupees ; and
(b) in the case of an offence referred to in  paragraph (b)
of section 37, to a fine not less than five thousand
rupees and not exceeding two hundred and fifty
thousand rupees.
(2) Wherever any person is convicted of an offence
referred to in section 37, the court may in addition to any
other penalty which it may impose for such offence, order
that all or any part of the products in respect of which the
offence was committed be forfeited to the State and the
products so ordered to be forfeited shall be disposed of in
such manner as the Court may direct.
39. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then -
(a) if that body is a body corporate, every person who
at the time of the commission of the offence was a
director of that body corporate; and
(b) if that body is a firm, every person who at the time
of the commission of the offence was a partner of
that firm,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of the offence.
Penalties.
Offences by body
of persons.

<!-- page 20 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
19
40. (1) The Minister may make regulations on the
recommendations of the Council  in respect of all matters, for
which regulations are authorized or required by this Act to be
made or which are required by this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.  Every regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to the validity
of anything done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
41. Any accreditation granted under Accreditation
Scheme for Testing Laboratories, by the Sri Lanka  Standards
Institution established by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution
Act, No. 6 of 1984 and in force on the day preceding the date
of commencement  of this Act shall be valid and effectual for
a period of six months from the date of commencement of
this Act.
42. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
43. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“accreditation”  means the recognition by the Board,
that a laboratory, certification or inspection body,
training institution or person required to conduct
conformity assessments  is competent to carry out
or perform the tests and activities which are
specified in the Certificate issued with respect to
such laboratory, certification or inspection body,
training institution or  person, as the case may be;
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Accreditation
granted by the Sri
Lanka Standards
Institution to be
valid for six
months.
Interpretation.
Regulations.

<!-- page 21 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
20
“Accreditation Mark" means a mark prescribed by
regulations made under thisAct;
 “Certificate” means a Certificate of Accreditation issued
by the Board under section  18;
“conformity assessment ” means the determination
directly or indirectly that any process, system,
commodity, product or service conforms to the
standards and other technical requirements
(including requirements relating to manufacture,
production, processing or treatment) specified by,
or under, any written law, with respect to such
process, system, commodity, product or service;
"local authority" means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any
law, to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,
duties and functions corresponding to, or similar
to the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by any such Council or
Sabha;
"person" includes a body of persons;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made
under this Act;
"Provincial Council" means a Provincial Council
established under Chapter XVIIA of the
Constitution.

<!-- page 22 -->

Sri Lanka Accreditation Board  for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005
21
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.