

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2395$49 - 2024 wf.daia;= ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'08'02
No. 2395/49 -  friday,  august  02 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- g 42378 - 05  (08/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
MINuTE   Of  ThE  SRI  LANkA  GRAMA  NILADhARI   SERvICE
the minute of the sri Lanka grama Niladhari service, approved by the Public service Commission on 06th of June 2024 
is mentioned below. 
On the approval of the Public service Commission, 
 W. H. M. M. C. K. Dayarathne,
 secretary,
 Public service Commission.
On 02nd of august 2024.
1. Effective Date: This service minute shall come into effect from 02nd of August 2024
2. Appointing Authority: 
2.1 The Grades III, II and I : the Secretary in charge of the subject of Home Affairs to whom the power has been 
delegated by the Public service Commission 
2.2   supra grade : Public service Commission

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
2a
3. Particulars of the Service Category  
 3.1 service Category: sri Lanka grama Niladhari service
 3.2 grades: following grades of the sri Lanka grama Niladhari service
    Grade III
    Grade II 
    Grade I 
  sri Lanka grama Niladhari service:  Supra Grade 
3.3  t asks entrusted:
 
 t asks are not assigned based on grades and any of the tasks prescribed for this service category, as mentioned 
under paragraph 4 shall be assigned to any officer in any Grade, on the service requirement based on the seniority 
and merit by the head of the department
4. Role of Service : 
 Act as a peace officer to exercise the powers and responsibilities assigned by the Criminal Procedure Code and as an 
officer to exercise the powers and responsibilities assigned by various rules and regulations to maintain law and order 
in the grama Niladhari division, which is the smallest administration unit in the country and collect the economic, 
social and cultural information of the people living in the division and identify the development needs of those sectors 
through analyzing such information in order to fulfill those needs by  conducting/monitoring development programs  
and maintaining welfare activities in the division under the direction and supervision of the divisional secretary with 
the coordinating of the ministries, departments and other institutions  are entrusted with the officers belonging to the 
Grades I, II, III of this service. These officers, while implementing civil administration shall serve under supervision 
and control of the divisional secretary.  
 the duties entrusted with the administrative grama Niladhari shall assist the relevant divisional secretary in 
implementation of the powers and responsibilities assigned by various rules and regulations of the government, act 
as the Officer supervising the implementation of the various duties assigned to the Grama Niladhari by the various 
Ministries, departments and statutory institutions of the government, under the direction and supervision of the 
Divisional Secretary and perform the duties assigned by the Head of the Department as per the service requirements 
service. These officers, while implementing civil administration, shall serve under the supervision and direction of the 
divisional secretary.
5.  Salary: 
5.1 salary Code No.: grades iii,ii,and i gN  1 – 2023
    supra grade   gN 2 – 2023
5.2 salary scale  : grades iii,ii,and i
    rs. 30,140 – 10X300-11X350-10X560-10X660- 49,190
    supra grade
    rs. 42,335-11X755-18X1030- 69,180
5.3  initial salary step applicable to the grade system
  gN – 1 – 2023
Grade Initial Salary Point Initial Salary Step 
iii rs.30,140.00 step 01
ii rs.33,490.00 step 12
i rs.37,550.00 step 23

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
3a
gN – 2 – 2023
grade salary Point salary step
Supra Grade rs.42,335 step 01
6.  Post/posts belonging to the Service Category:
6.1  approved designations  and approved cadre (as approved by the director general of the  Management services)
Approved Designations Grade to which the post is 
approved
Salary Code Approved Cadre
grama Niladhari Grade I/II/III of sri Lanka grama 
Niladhari service  
gN – 1 – 2023 14039
administrative grama 
Niladhari
sri Lanka grama Niladhari service 
(supra grade) 
gN – 2 – 2023 340
6.2  Combined number of officers – 14,039
 for the purpose of grade to grade promotion, all in grades iii, ii, i shall be treated as grades belonging to the 
combined number of officers.  
 supra grade - 340
6.3  Nature of the posts in the service - the post is permanent and pensionable. (shall be subject to the policy 
decisions to be taken by the government on the pension scheme, in the future.)
7.  Method of Recruitment: 
 
7.1 Percentages of r ecruitment : 
Stream Percentage
Open
Limited
Merit Basis
100%
Not applicable
Not applicable
 Note: The vacancies existing up to a date determined by the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home 
Affairs as per the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, shall be filled through an open competitive 
examination and an Interview for Evaluating Eligibility conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on 
behalf of the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs. 
7.2 Open recruitment:
7.2.1 grade to which the recruitment is made : grade iii

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
4a
7.2.2 Qualifications : 
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications 
(a)  Should have passed the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects with credit 
passes for four subjects, at one sitting including one of the Language subjects out of sinhala 
or Tamil as the first language and Mathematics.
and
(b) Should have passed all the subjects at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination at one sitting 
(Except Common General Paper and English Language Test)
 
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Not applicable. 
7.2.2.3 Experience : Not applicable 
7.2.2.4	Physical fitness: All the candidates shall be physically fit and mentally sound to discharge the 
duties of the post and to serve in any part of the island.
7.2.2.5	Other qualifications: 
(i)	 should be a citizen of sri Lanka. 
(ii)	 should not have been ordained in any religious sect.     
(iii )	 Permanent residence
 shall be a permanent resident for a continuous period of three (03) years immediately 
preceding the closing date of application within the divisional secretary’s division to which 
he expected to be appointed to, and it should be confirmed by one of the following certificates:
1.  Extracts of the electoral register or 
2.  A certificate issued by Grama Niladhari to affirm the residency of the candidate 
 
(iv)	 Candidates will be considered eligible for recruitment to the post only if they have fulfilled 
all the qualifications mentioned under 7.2.2 to 7.2.3 in every respect as at the closing date 
mentioned in the Notice for calling applications. 
7.2.3	age :
7.2.3.1. Minimum limit: 21 years. 
7.2.3.2. Maximum limit: 30 years 
7.2.4 Method of recruitment : 
7.2.4.1. Written examination 
Subjects Duration(hours) Maximum marks Pass marks
Language use and  
Comprehension 1 ½ 100 40
general awareness on Local 
and global t rends 1 ½ 100 40
aptitude 1 100 40
(Examination procedure and the syllabus of the written examination is shown in Appendix 01.)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
5a
7.2.4.1.1  Authority conducting the examination : Commissioner General of Examinations
7.2.4.2 interview for evaluating the eligibility : 
evaluating criteria
 
Main topics to which marks are allocated Maximum marks Minimum marks considered 
for selection
Leadership 15
Not applicable 
sports skills 05
Proficiency in the other official language 
or link language 10
Computer literacy 10
skills shown at the
interview 10
total 50
Note 
 the appointing authority shall take action to approve the detailed marking scheme of the interview for 
Evaluating the Eligibility, within the maximum marks allocated for the main areas and publish the Notice 
for calling for applications.
7.2.4.2.1 appointing authority of the Panel of the interview for evaluating the eligibility : 
Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs 
7.2.4.3 General Interview: The basic qualifications shall also be reviewed by the Panel of the Interview 
for evaluating the eligibility.  
7.2.5  Method of calling for applications:  By calling application through a notification published in all 
three languages in the government Gazette 
7.2.6 recruitment :-
 7.2.6.1  Of the candidates who are qualified at the written examination, the candidates who have secured 
the highest marks at each divisional secretary’s division level, twice the number of vacancies 
in the respective divisional secretary’s division, will be called for the interview conducted for 
evaluating the eligibility. the said interview for evaluating the eligibility will be conducted by a 
panel of Interviewers appointed by the Appointing Authority. After examining the qualifications, 
actions shall be taken to attach the candidates who secure the highest marks from aggregate of 
the marks obtained in the written examination and the Interview for Evaluating Eligibility, based 
on the availability of vacancies in each divisional secretary’s division.
 
  In the event that it is not possible to fill all the vacancies in a Divisional Secretary's Division, 
recruitments to the grade iii of the sri Lanka grama Niladhari service shall be made subject to 
fill the remaining vacancies by attaching the candidates according to the order of the merit of the 
candidates of the district to which the said divisional secretary’s division belongs.
 7.2.6.2  induction training: 
(a)  Every officer recruited to the service should successfully complete the three months training 
course conducted under the supervision of the respective district secretary. this training 
should be started from the date of the appointment. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
6a
(b)  This will enable every officer to acquire the basic subject knowledge and understanding required in 
performing the general duties of the service. in order to successfully complete this three-month training 
course, the candidates should maintain at least 80% participation of the number of days of the course 
and should have passed the written test conducted at the end of the induction training by scoring 50% 
marks. The service of this apprentice officer shall be terminated, if the three-month training course 
is not successfully completed or upon the non-receipt of a satisfactory security clearance report 
obtained from the National intelligence Bureau as per the provisions of the Circular No. 31/91 (i) 
dated 24/09/1991 issued by the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils 
and Local government.
7.3	 Limited recruitment: Not applicable 
7.4	 recruitment on merit basis: Not applicable 
8.  Efficiency Bar:
8.1
Efficiency Bar Before how many years should the efficiency 
bar examination be completed?
Nature of the Efficiency Bar, Writ-
ten Test/Professional/
Certificate Course/Other
1 st  Efficiency Bar Prior to elapsing 3 years after recruitment to 
the grade iii
Written Test – Appendix 02
2 nd Efficiency Bar Prior to elapsing 3 years after promotion to 
grade ii
Written Test- Appendix 03
3 rd  Efficiency Bar Prior to elapsing 5 years after promotion to 
grade i
Written Test- Appendix 04
 
 syllabus -   for the 1 st  Efficiency Bar –Appendix 02
    for the 2 nd  Efficiency Bar- Appendix 03
    for the 3 rd  Efficiency Bar - Appendix 04 
 8.2  The efficiency bar examination will be conducted once (01) in every year.  
8.3  Conducting authority  : By an institution approved by the secretary to the Ministry   in charge of the subject of 
Home Affairs. 
9.  Language proficiency:
9.1 
Language Proficiency level to be achieved
Official Language The officers who were recruited in a language medium other than an official 
language shall complete the prescribed language proficiency during the 
period of probation.
Other official language The relevant proficiency level shall be achieved as per the provisions 
stipulated in Public administration Circular 18/2020 and the circulars 
incidental thereto. 
10. grade Promotions 
10.1  Promotion from Grade III to Grade II 
10.1.1 in terms of the general performance 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
7a
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:
(i)	 Should have been confirmed in the appointment.
(ii)	 should have completed a minimum of ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service in grade 
iii of sri Lanka grama Niladhari service and earned ten (10) salary increments.
(iii )	 should have shown a satisfactory or higher performance within the ten (10) consecutive years 
prior to the date of promotion as per the approved performance evaluation procedure.
(iv)	 should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions 
of the Public service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.
(v)	 Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination as at the prescribed date.
(vi)	 Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the relevant level. 
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion 
  When the officers who fulfill the prescribed qualifications make a request for promotion to Grade 
ii to the appointing authority as per prescribed form along with the recommendations of the 
Divisional Secretary and District Secretary, the Appointing Authority, after verification of the 
qualifications, shall promote the officers with effect from the date on which the qualifications are 
fulfilled.
.
10.2  Promotion from Grade II to Grade I 
10.2.1 in terms of the general performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled 
(i)  should have completed a minimum of ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service in grade 
ii of sri Lanka grama Niladhari service and earned ten (10) salary increments.
(ii) should have shown a satisfactory or higher performance within the ten (10) consecutive years 
prior to the date of promotion as per the approved performance evaluation procedure.
(iii) should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment (should
  have gained eligibility as per interpretation and definition 12.(v). disciplinary punishment 
in accordance with the provisions of Public service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and 
circulars incidental thereto.
(iv) Should have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination on the prescribed date.
  
10.2.1.2  Method of Promotion
 
  When officers who have fulfilled the qualifications make a request for promotion to Grade I 
as per the prescribed form along with the recommendation of the divisional secretary and the 
District Secretary, the Appointing Authority, after verification of the qualifications, shall make the 
promotion with effect from the date on which the qualifications are fulfilled.
 Note: -   The date of promotion of those officers who do not pass the efficiency bar examination by 
the prescribed date on average level performance shall be delayed by a period equivalent 
to the delayed period in passing the efficiency bar.  

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
8a
10.3 Promotion to Supra Grade
10.3.1 Promotion on Limited Competitive Examination 
10.3.1.1  Qualifications to be fulfilled 
(A)	 (i)  Should be an officer of  Grade I of the service 
     or, 
 
(ii)  Should be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory
 service period of not less than eight (08) years in grade ii of the service
     or, 
(iii)   Should be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of not 
less than five (05) years in Grade II with a degree awarded by a university recognized 
by the university grants Commission 
(B) should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions 
of the Public service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.
10.3.1.2  Method of promotion 
  appointments to not less than 40% of supra grade vacancies shall be made based on the results 
of a limited competitive examination. Appointments to not more than 40%of the vacancies in the 
Supra Grades shall be made based on the results of a limited competitive examination. Eligible 
candidates will be appointed after scrutinization of qualifications by an interview panel appointed 
by the Public Service Commission. The interview will be conducted only for examining the 
certificates proving the eligibility of the applicants and no marks will be awarded.
 
 A number of candidates equivalent to the aggregate of the number of vacancies for which the 
recruitments are made through the limited competitive examination and the amount equal to 25% of 
the number of vacancies as per a priority list prepared according to the merit shown in the written 
test from among the candidates who have scored the pass mark or more in the written test will be 
called for the interview.  The syllabus and the marking scheme is as per Appendix 05.
10.3.1.3  Method of application 
                as published in the gazette notification. 
10.3.2  Promotion on Merit Basis 
10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled 
(i)  Should be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of minimum 
five (05) years in Grade I as at the prescribed date.
(ii) should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions 
of the Public service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.
10.3.2.2  Method of promotion 
  60% of Supra Grade vacancies will be filled by promotion on merit. For this purpose, priority will 
be determined based on the results of an aptitude test conducted by the Commissioner general of 
Examinations on behalf of the Public Service Commission and the order of the aggregate of the 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
9a
marks given based on the period of service and merit by a panel appointed by the Public service 
Commission. Candidates shall appear for an interview for evaluating the eligibility held by a 
panel appointed by the Public Service Commission for the verification of qualifications. No marks 
shall be awarded at that interview. (Appendix 06, 07) 
Note: 
1.	 the secretary to the Ministry, at the time of calling applications for recruitment, shall make 
arrangements to get the approval of the Public service Commission for a detailed marking scheme 
for the interview for evaluating the eligibility.   
2.	 The number of candidates equivalent to twice the number of existing vacancies shall be eligible to 
be called for the interview through a priority list prepared based on the number of marks secured in 
the written test. recruitments to the posts shall be made based on the order of aggregate of the marks 
secured at the written competitive examination and the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility where 
the marks will be awarded based on seniority and merit, as well as the number of existing vacancies.
10.3.3 appointing authority of the panel of the interview for evaluating the eligibility: Public service 
Commission 
11.  appointment to posts: Not applicable.
12. Conditions applicable to the service: in terms of the Procedural rules of the Public service Commission.
13.  Conditions outside the general conditions indicated in Procedural rules of the Public service Commission.
 the provisions of the circulars issued for the purpose of implementing this service minute shall be made applicable in 
respect of the service period and the efficiency bar.
13.1  Officers recruited at the Divisional Secretary's Division level are not entitled to transfer from the Divisional 
Secretary's Division to which the officer is appointed to another Divisional Secretary's Division until completion 
of 03 years from the date of the first appointment. However, the Secretary of the Ministry may decide, where 
appropriate, on granting transfers to the officers newly recruited at the Divisional Secretariat Division level 
upon the request of the officer or on exigency of service, before the expiry of 03 years from the date of the first 
appointment.
14.  Since Grama Niladharies perform duties related to civil administration and act as a Peace Officer, they are not entitled 
to political rights.  
15.  Definitions and Interpretations 
15.1  the term “service Minute” shall mean the Minute on  the sri Lanka grama Niladhari service. 
15.2  “The Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs.
15.3  “the service” shall mean the sri Lanka grama Niladhari service.
15.4  “the Commission” shall mean the Public service Commission.
15.5  “the “ Gazette” shall mean the Gazette published by the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka.
16.  Absorption in to the Grade System
 This service minute shall only be applicable to the officers in service as at its effective date. The Grama Niladharies who 
are paid under the salary scale MN-02 given by the Public administration Circular 06/2006 and the circulars incident 
thereto, shall be absorbed into this service minute as mentioned below subject to the provisions stipulated in section 
four (04), Chapter Vii of the establishments Code.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
10a
 there shall be no change in the date of the salary increment of the person concerned due to the absorption, and the said 
date shall remain unchanged as the date of the salary increment that prevailed before absorption. similarly, based on the 
fact that the last drawn salary step of the person concerned corresponds with the new salary step, the person concerned 
should not be placed in the next higher salary step in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.
 the service period of each grade, in accordance with the previous recruitment procedure, shall be treated as a service 
period of the relevant grade after absorption into the new service minute.
	( i)	 Grade III
(a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Grade III appointments as at the effective date of the Service 
Minute,
	( ii)	 Grade II
(a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Grade II appointments as at the effective date of the Service Minute.
(b) The officers who have not fulfilled the other service requirements to be promoted to Grade I as mentioned 
above, though they have completed the service period of ten (10) years related to grama Niladhari grade 
ii.
	( iii )	 Grade I 
(a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Grade I appointments as at the effective date of the Service Minute.
	( iv)	 Supra Grade 
(a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Supra Grade appointments as at the effective date of the Service 
Minute.
17.  any matter not provided for in this service Minute shall be determined by the Public service Commission.
          Appendix 01
01.	 Name of the Examination: Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Grama 
Niladhari service 
02.	 Particulars of the examination:
Subjects Duration (Hours) Maximum marks Pass Marks 
Language use and 
Comprehension
1 ½ 100 40%
general Knowledge on Local 
and global t rends
1 ½ 100 40%
aptitude 1 100 40%
03.	 Authority conducting the examination: The Commissioner General of Examinations 
04.	 How often is the examination held: Examination will be conducted according to the existence of vacancies 
05.	 Syllabus of the examination:
Name of the question paper Syllabus
Language use and 
Comprehension
The question paper will consist of subject-related questions to test the candidate’s 
ability to express ideas, comprehension, spellings, language and essay, making a draft 
from a given letter, making graphs and tables based on the given data, summarizing 
given texts, expressing the idea of several sentences in a single sentence and 
knowledge on using simple grammar. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
11 a
Name of the question paper Syllabus
general Knowledge on Local 
and global t rends
This question paper shall consist of subject-related questions so designed that they 
will test the candidates’ general knowledge on historically, geographically, socially, 
and economically important information about the county and both local and foreign 
current affairs.
aptitude
This paper shall consist of subject-related questions designed to test the candidates’ 
numerical skills, power of critical reasoning, problem solving, general intelligence, 
etc.
Appendix 02
01.	 Name of the examination: The first efficiency bar examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari 
Service
02.	 Particulars of the examination:
Question Paper Duration (Hours) Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Office Systems & Accounting 02 100 40%
2. Case study and Professional Knowledge 02 100 40%
3. Computer test  Written test 1 ½ 100 40%
03.	 Authority conducting the examination: By an institution approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, 
Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.  
04.	 How often is the examination held: Once a year 
05.	 Syllabus of the examination: 
Name of the question paper Syllabus 
(1)
i. Office Systems 
ii.accounting systems
this paper is designed to assess the knowledge and ability of the candidate to apply 
practically the basic knowledge on office systems applied in Grama Niladhari 
Office and government offices and to express his ideas/ observations precisely by 
brief and clear notes understanding the official documents and prepare a report 
on subject related matters.
this paper is designed to assess the knowledge and understanding of the candidate 
on basic accounts and accounting systems, functions on cash books and the 
government procurement procedures applied in government offices and related 
to the duties entrusted to the grama Niladhari.
2. Case study and Professional 
Knowledge
this paper is designed to test the knowledge of the grama Niladhari on the duties 
entrusted to him by various rules and   regulations, ministries, departments, 
provincial councils and other statutory institutions of the government.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
12a
Name of the question paper Syllabus 
3. Computer test Main objective of this test is to assess the ability of the candidates in following 
fields
Basic concepts of information technology 
Windows Operating system
folder Management 
Word Processing 
Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing texts
aligning texts, fonts and attributes, indenting paragraphs, change of line 
spacing, tab setting, finding and replacing text
spelling and grammar mistakes, thesaurus,
working with columns, page setup
printing documents, creating tables, sorting texts,
file Management 
Mail merging 
Working with Macros
Spread Sheets
Basic skills 
formatting
editing
columns and ranges, insertion and deletion
data sorting 
Creating charts
Printing 
(@ function)
Working with Macros
file Management 
Internet 
introduction to internet, World Wide Web, how to navigate, Practical internet 
Email
introduction, Basic skills, receiving mail 
sending mail, responding to mails 
working with attachments, creating and using nicknames
Composing massages 
6.  Exemption from Computer Test
 The officers who have obtained a Computer Driving License awarded by the National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority and those who have obtained certificates of which the recognition is equivalent to or higher to the Computer 
driving License with theory and practical knowledge relating to computer technology issued by the institutions 
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission, and also the officers who have obtained a Computer 
science information technology degree or have studied Computer science/information technology as a main subject 
for the Degree, awarded by a university recognized by the University Grants Commission, shall be exempted from the 
requirement of passing this computer test.
 a list of courses which are recognized for this purpose and the institutes conducting the courses will be published in 
the Gazette Notification issued for inviting applications for the efficiency bar examination

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
13a
                                                                                                                                 Appendix 03
01.	 Name of the examination: The second efficiency bar examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhai 
service 
02.	 Particulars of the examination:
03.	
Question Paper Duration (hours) Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Office System, Establishments Code 
and Procedural rules
1 ½ 100 40%
2. Case study and Professional 
Knowledge
1 ½ 100 40%
04.	 Authority conducting the examination: By an institution approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, 
Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.  
05.	 How often is the examination held:  Once a year 
06.	 Syllabus of the examination: 
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus 
(1)
i. Office Systems
ii. establishments Code and the 
Procedural rules 
It is expected to assess the knowledge of the officer on office systems 
applied at government offices and Grama Niladhari offices and their 
ability to apply them practically.
It is expected to test the knowledge and understanding of the officer on 
procedural rules of the Public service Commission, provisions of Chap-
ters Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XiV , XV ,XVi,XVii, XXi, XXii, XXiii, XXiV , 
XXV , XXVi, XXVii,XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii and 
public administration circulars and circulars of the Public service Com-
mission which are currently applied.
(2) Case studies and Professional 
Knowledge 
The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted to Grama Niladharies 
by various rules & regulations and ministries, departments, and other 
statutory institutions of the government shall be tested. 
           Appendix 04
01.	 Name of the examination: The third efficiency bar examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari 
service 
02.	 Particulars of the examination:
Question Paper Duration
(hours)
Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Office Systems, General Conduct and Discipline 1 ½ 100 40%
2. Case studies and Professional Knowledge 1 ½ 100 40%

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
14a
03.	 Authority conducting the examination: By an institution approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs.  
04.	 How often is the examination held: Once a year 
05.  Syllabus of the examination: 
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
(1)
i. Office System
ii. general Conduct and 
discipline of the Public service  
It is expected to assess the knowledge of the officer on office systems applied 
at government offices and Grama Niladhari offices and their ability to apply 
them practically
It is expected to assess the knowledge and understanding of the officers on 
devolution of disciplinary powers, termination of service, rules applied in the 
retirement as per the Procedural rules of the Public service Commission, 
provisions in relation to the general conduct and disciplinary procedure in 
Chapters XLVii and XLViii of volume ii of the establishments Code and 
current circulars issued in relation to the above. 
2. Case studies and Professional 
Knowledge 
The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted to Grama Niladharies by 
various rules & regulations and Ministries, departments, provincial councils 
and other statutory institutions of the government shall be tested and further 
a case study will be given to the candidate on matters relevant to the subjects.
                Appendix 05
01. Name of the examination: Written examination for promotion to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service 
on Limited  Basis 
02.  Particulars about the examination :
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
1.Office Managment 1 ½ hours 100 40 %
2.Office System 1 ½ hours 100 40 %
3.establishment Procedures 1 ½ hours 100 40 %
4.Public finance Management 1 ½ hours 100 40 %
5. general Paper 1 ½ hours 100 40 %
03.  Authority conducting the examination :
 The Commissioner General of Examinations or an institution approved by the Public Service Commission
04.  How often is the examination held : The examination shall be conducted depending on the existence of vacancies.
05. Syllabus of the examination:

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
15a
Name of the question paper Syllabus 
1. Office Management 
2 . Office System
Organization structure, Principles of organization, task analysis and task 
evaluation, leadership, supervision and decision making, communication, public 
relations, coordination and problem-solving
Principles of office systems, office procedures, documents and filing, planning 
and handling of forms, office correspondents, control over the use of office 
equipment, office layout and environment, job description, work and systems 
study, measurement of works, and preparation of work steps.
3.establishment  Procedures general understanding of the procedures to be followed when making 
recruitments to public service, establishment activities of public officers, 
delegation of powers in relation to appointments, transfers, promotions and 
termination of service of public officers, the regulations, procedures and 
circulars issued by the government and the Public service Commission on the 
discipline, welfare of public servants, privileges entitled to public officers, the 
establishment matters will be examined.
4.Public finance Management annual estimates and responsibilities of an accounting officer, general 
understanding on financial control, delegation of responsibilities on financial 
matters, accepting money, accounting, acceptance, payments, custody of 
public money, imprest and bank account, supplies and services, government 
procurement procedures, board of surveys, audit queries, ledgers used in 
government offices, summaries of income and expenditure, bank reconciliations, 
books on financial management, regulations and circulars issued on utilization 
of Public finance issued so far by the government will be tested.
5. general Paper the nature of public administration, structure of public administration, 
public policies and new public reforms, fundamental rights, human rights, 
human rights Commission, Ombudsman, Public Petition Committee of the 
Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, creation of a proper physical office 
environment, welfare of the staff, recognition of sociological acceptance of civil 
and official status and the duties of public officers towards service recipients.
                      
 Appendix 06
01.  Name of the examination: Written examination for promotion to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service 
on Merit Basis 
02.	 Particulars of the examination :
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Minimum marks
1.	aptitude, Case study 1 ½ hours 100 40 %
03.	 Authority conducting the examination :The Commissioner General of Examinations or an institution approved by 
the Public service Commission. 
04.	 How often is the examination held: The examination will be conducted depending on the existence of vacancies.
05. Syllabus for the examination:

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 02.08.2024
16a
Name of the question paper Syllabus 
aptitude, Case study Aptitude, Case Studies question paper shall consist of two parts.
Part i 
general knowledge, decision-making ability, critical reasoning, and knowledge 
on office administration required in performing duties relating to office admin-
istration and duties assigned to grama Niladharies will be tested.
Part ii
Candidates will be required to answer questions related to case studies on office 
administration and duties assigned to Grama Niladharies. The question paper 
will be prepared in one or several paragraphs. 
         
 Appendix 07
01.  Name of the examination: Interview to assess eligibility in promoting to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari 
service on merit basis
02.  areas for which the marks are allocated at the interview and the marks allocated 
Headings for which the marks are allocated The maximum marks The minimum marks 
considered for selection
service Period  50
Not applocable. 
Merit 
(the marking scheme, which contains the relevant criteria, 
will be approved by the Public service Commission where 
necessary.)
45
the merit proven at the interview. 05
03.  authority conducting the interview:an interview board approved by the Public service Commission.
eOg 08 - 0017
PriNted at the dePartMeNt Of gOVerNMeNt  PriNtiNg,  sri LaNKa.