

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.07.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2235$22 - 2021 cQ,s ui 06 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2021'07'06
No. 2235/22  -   TUESDAY ,   JULY   06,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  PG  5488— 470  (07/2021)
FOREIGN   EXCHANGE   ACT,  No.  12  of  2017
REGULA TIONS made under Section 29 read with Section 7 of the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
Minister of Finance.
Colombo,
06th July, 2021
Regulations
The Foreign Exchange (Classes of Capital Transactions Undertaken in Sri Lanka by a Person Resident Outside
Sri Lanka) Regulations No. 2 of 2021 published in the Gazette Extraordinary Notification No. 2213/35 dated 03 February
2021 issued under the Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017 (the regulations), are hereby amended as follows:
(1) Item (g) of sub paragraph (8) of the paragraph 1 under heading A of the Part I of the Schedule of the regulations,
is hereby repealed and replaced with the following :
(g) “debt securities in Sri Lanka Rupees listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange”.
(2) Following is inserted as item (h) of sub paragraph (8) to the paragraph 1 under heading A of the Part I of the
Schedule of the regulations :
(h) “debt securities in any designated foreign currency listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange”

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.07.2021
2A
(3) Following is inserted as sub paragraph (11) of the paragraph 1 under heading A of the Part I of the Schedule
of the regulations.
(11) “subject to the exclusions and limitations stated in paragraphs 7 and 8, under heading A of this Part of
the Schedule, to acquire, hold or divest all classes of shares in any designated foreign currency (including
the shares under an entitlement to shares or conversions to shares) listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange
and issued by companies incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007”.
(4) Following is inserted as sub paragraph (9) of the paragraph 4 under heading A of the Part I of the Schedule of
the regulations.
(9) “Under no circumstances, the said listed shares or listed debt securities issued in any designated foreign
currency by companies in Sri Lanka, under item (h) of sub paragraph (8) and sub paragraph (11) of
paragraph 1 under heading A of the Part I of the Schedule, are permitted to be sold to any person
resident in Sri Lanka excluding non-nationals who are residing in Sri Lanka and making such investments
through Inward Investment Accounts.”
(5) The following is inserted as sub paragraph (10) of the paragraph 4 under heading A of the Part I of the
Schedule of the regulations.
(10) “Further conditions apply for investments made in listed shares and listed debt securities in any
designated foreign currency.
(a) Company shall be a foreign exchange earner that had continuous foreign exchange earnings at a
minimum level of 50% of the total annual revenue of the company which is at least equivalent to a
minimum of USD 5 million, as per the audited financial statements for the three years immediately
preceding the listing in the Colombo Stock Exchange ( i.e., the investee). The investee so eligible
under these regulations shall have prospective earnings in foreign exchange at the same level.
(b) The consideration of the investment in listed shares issued in any designated foreign currency
received through the Inward Investment Account of the non-resident investor shall be credited
into a Special Foreign Currency Account opened and maintained by the investee with an authorized
dealer subject to the directions issued by the Central Bank.
(c) An amount equivalent to 60% of the proceeds referred under item (b) of sub paragraph 10 above
may be utilized for any capital transaction of the investee, outside Sri Lanka.
(d) The investee shall require to repatriate any income or capital proceeds of the said investments
made through the Special Foreign Currency Account as permitted in these regulations, into Sri
Lanka, to the credit of the same Special Foreign Currency Account through which said investments
were made, opened and maintained by the investee with an authorized dealer subject to the directions
issued by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of receipt of the payment.
(e) An amount equivalent to the portion of 50% of capital gain of proceeds so received may be utilized
for any capital transactions outside Sri Lanka through the Special Foreign Currency Account. Any
income or capital proceeds of such continued investments also shall be subject to the condition
under item (d) of the sub paragraph (10) above.
(f) The consideration of the investments in listed debt securities issued in any designated foreign
currency received through the Inward Investment Account of the non-resident investor shall be
credited into the Special Foreign Currency Account opened and maintained by the investee with an
authorized dealer subject to the directions issued by the Central Bank.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.07.2021
3A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
(g) Any income or maturity proceeds on the listed debt securities or listed shares, issued in any
designated foreign currency shall be paid only out of the foreign exchange earnings of the investee
held in the Special Foreign Currency Account opened and maintained with an authorized dealer
subject to the directions issued by the Central Bank.
(h) The investee shall adhere to the rules and regulations of the Colombo Stock Exchange issued in
this regard.”.
07-353