

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
INLAND  REVENUE  (AMENDMENT)
 ACT, No. 9 OF 2008
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 29th February, 2008]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 29, 2008

<!-- page 2 -->

1Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
2—PL 002800—6,900 (02/2008)
Short title.
[Certified on 29th February, 2008]
L.D.—O. 1/ 2008
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  INLAND  REVENUE  ACT , NO . 10 OF  2006
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue
(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2008.
2. Section 7 of the Inland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006,
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in sub-paragraph (xvii) of paragraph (b) of that
section, by the substitution for the words “being
profits and income of that society”, of the words
and figures “being profits and income of that society
for any year of assessment ending on or before
March 31, 2008 or for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2013,”;
(2) in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (g) of that section,
by the substitution  for the words and figures
“Presidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978.”,  of the words
and figures “Presidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978;”;
(3) by the addition  immediately after paragraph (g) of
that section, of the following new paragraphs:—
“(h) the profits and income for every year of
assessment within a period of five years,
commencing on April 1, 2008, of any
registered society within the meaning of the
Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972;
(i) the profits and income of the Api Wenuwen
Api Fund established by the Api Wenuwen
Api Fund Act, No.6  of 2008.”.
Amendment of
section 7 of Act,
No. 10 of 2006.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
3. Section 8 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further  amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section :–
(a) by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that
subsection, for the words “one half of the
official emoluments paid to-”, of the words
and figures“one half of the official
emoluments for any year of assessment ending
on or before March 31, 2008, paid to-”;
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (d) of that
subsection, for the words “the emoluments
arising in Sri Lanka and any income”, of the
words and figures“the emoluments arising in
Sri Lanka prior to April 1, 2008, and any
income”;
(c) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(d) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph :–
“(dd) the emoluments arising in Sri Lanka and
any income not arising in Sri Lanka of
any individual who is an expert and who
is not a citizen of Sri Lanka  and is
employed in Sri Lanka by any
undertaking which has entered into an
agreement with the Government of Sri
Lanka, being an agreement which
provides for the exemption from income
tax of such emoluments or by any
Strategic Development Project
Gazetted by the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka under subsection (4) of
section 3 of the Strategic Development
Projects Act,  No. 14 of 2008;
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
For the purpose of this paragraph,
“expert” means an individual who
has expertise in such field as
may be determined by the
Commissioner-General, as being a
field in which sufficient expertise is
not available among the citizens of
Sri Lanka;”;
(d) in paragraph (h) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “granted to the
wife”, of the words“granted to the spouse”;
and
(e) in paragraph (p) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words from “which in the
opinion of the Commissioner-General” to
the words “allotment of grant, as the case may
be; and”, of the words “which in the opinion
of the Commissioner-General is
reasonable”;and
(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “whichever is earlier.”, of the words
“whichever is earlier, but not later than April 1,
2008.”. be exempt from income tax”.
4. Section 9 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further  amended as follows:—
(1) by the substitution in paragraph (h) of that section,
for the words and figures “or any bank
established under the Regional Development Banks
Act, No. 6 of 1997”, of the words and figures “or any
bank established under the Regional Development
Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997 or any registered society
within the meaning of the Co-operative Societies
Law, No. 5 of 1972;”;
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(2) in paragraph (k) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “External Rupee Account.”, of the
words “External Rupee Account;”; and
(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (k) of
that section, of the following new paragraphs:—
“(l) the interest or discount arising or accruing to
any non-resident citizen of Sri Lanka, from
the purchase of any Motherland Development
Bond denominated in foreing currency and
issued by or on behalf of the Government of
Sri Lanka;
(m ) the interest accruing or arising on or after
April 1, 2008, from any investment made
outside Sri Lanka to any person resident in
Sri Lanka, where such interest is remitted to
Sri Lanka through a bank.”.
5. Section 10 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in subsection
(1) of that section, by the addition immediately after
paragraph (i) of that subsection of the following new
paragraph:—
“(j) any dividend paid on or after April 1, 2008, by a
company not resident in Sri Lanka to any
shareholder resident in Sri Lanka, where the amount
of such dividend is remitted to Sri Lanka through a
bank.”.
6. Section 11 of the principal to enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that
section, and the substitution therefor of the
following subsection:—
“(2) There shall be exempt from income tax—
(a) income accruing to the owner of any house
from such house, the construction of which
is completed prior to April 1, 2008, being
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 11 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
income for that year of assessment in which
such construction was completed and for
the four years of assessment immediately
succeeding that year of assessment, if such
house is used solely for residential
purposes:
Provided that where the floor area of the
house is one thousand and five hundred square
feet or less, the income accruing to the owner
shall be exempt from income tax for the year
of assessment in which the construction of
that house is completed and for the six years
of assessment immediately succeeding that
year of assessment; and
(b) income accruing to the owner of any house
from such house, the floor area of which is
five hundred square feet or less and the
construction of which is completed on or after
April 1, 2008, being income for that year of
assessment in which the construction was
completed and for the four years of assessment
immediately succeeding that year of
assessment, if such house is used solely for
residential purposes.”.
7. Section 13 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further  amended as follows:—
(1) by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that section,
for the words  “earned in any year of assessment in
foreign currency”, of the words and figures“earned
in any year of assessment prior to April 1, 2008, in
foreign currency”;
(2) by the substitution in paragraph (c) of that section,
for the words  “the profits and income earned in
foreign currency”, of the words and figures,“the
profits and income earned in foreign currency in
any year of assessment ending on or before March
31, 2008,”;
Amendment of
section 13 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(3) by the substitution in paragraph (d) of that section,
for the words “the profits and income earned in
foreign currency”, of the words and figures“the
profits and income earned in foreign currency in
any year of assessment ending on or before March
31, 2008,”;
(4) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (dd) of
that section, of the following new paragraph:—
“(ddd) the profits and income earned in foreign
currency by any resident company, any
resident individual or any partnership in
Sri Lanka, from services rendered in or outside
Sri Lanka to any person or partnership outside
Sri Lanka, being services rendered in
the course of carrying on of any profession
or vocation as is specified by the
Commissioner- General by Notice published
in the Gazette, as being in the interest of the
national economy of Sri Lanka, if such profits
and income (less such amount, if any,
expended outside Sri Lanka as is considered
by the Commissioner-General to be reasonable
expenses) are remitted to Sri Lanka through a
bank;”;
(5) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (i) of
that section, of the following new paragraph:—
“(ii) the profits and income within the meaning of
paragraph (a) of section 3, arising from the
cutting and polishing of gems which are
brought to Sri Lanka and exported after such
cutting and polishing;”;
(6) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (x) of
that section, of the following new paragraph:—
“(xx) an amount equal to the interest payable to
any bank in Sri Lanka in respect of any loan
granted, where the full amount of such loan is
invested in any new undertaking referred to
in section 24
C ;”;

<!-- page 8 -->

7Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(7) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (y) of
that section, of the following new paragraph:—
 “(yy). any profits and income arising or accruing to
any company, partnership or body of persons
outside  Sri Lanka, from any payment made in
respect of the use on or after April 1, 2008, of
any plant, machinery or equipment supplied
by such company, partnership or body  of
persons to the Government of Sri Lanka,  any
public corporation, any Government
Institution or to any other undertaking, for
the use in any project approved by the
Minister as being essential for the economic
development of Sri Lanka;”; and
(8) by the addition immediately after paragraph (z) of
that section, of the following new paragraphs:—
“(zz) the profits and income of any individual who
is not a citizen of  Sri Lanka and who is
employed in Sri Lanka in any undertaking,
being profits and income arising or derived
from outside  Sri Lanka during the period
commencing from April 1, 2008, and ending
on the date of cessation of such employment;
(zzz) the profits and income within the meaning of
paragraph (a) of section 3, of any undertaking
for the construction and sale of houses for low
income families under a scheme approved by
the Urban Development Authority or the
National Housing Authority, being houses the
floor area of which does not exceed five
hundred square feet, if the sale of any such
house takes place before April 1, 2013.”.
8. Section 17 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in subsection
(1) of that section, by the substitution for the words from “in
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
which the undertaking commences to made profits” to the
end of that subsection, of the following words and figures:—
“in which the undertaking commences to make profits
from transactions entered into in that year of assessment
or from the commencement of the year of assessment
immediately succeeding the year of assessment in
which the undertaking completes a period of two years
reckoned from the date on which the undertaking
commences to carry on commercial operations,
whichever occurs earlier:
Provided that where the period for which the profits
and income are exempt from income tax commences
after March 31, 2008, the period for which such profits
and income are exempt, shall be three years.”.
9. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “not more than twelve years as may be
determined”, of the words “not more than twelve years
commencing from not later than March 31, 2009, as may be
determined”.
10. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution
for the words from “in which the undertaking commences to
make profits” to the end of that subsection, of the following
words and figures:—
“in which the undertaking commences to make
profits from transactions entered into in that year of
assessment or from the commencement of the year of
accessment immediately succeeding the year of
assessment in which the undertaking completes a period
of two years reckoned from the date on which the
undertaking commences to carry on commercial
operations, whichever occurs earlier:
Provided that where the period for which the
profits and income are exempt from income tax
commences after April 1, 2008, the period for
which such profits and income are exempt, shall be
three years.”.
Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
11. Section 20 of the principal enactment is
hereby amended in subsection (2) of that section as
follows :—
(1) by the substitution in paragraph (c) of that
subsecton, for the words and figures “April 1,
2008-”, of the words and figures “April 1,
2009-”; and
(2) by the substitution in paragraph (e) of that
subsection, for the words and figures “prior to April
1, 2008”, of the words and figures “prior to April 1,
2009”.
12. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section,
by the substitution for the words and figures “not later than
March 31, 2008”, of the words and figures “not later than
March 31, 2009.”.
13. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 21 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 21
A  of that enactment :—
21A . (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other
than any profits and income from the sale of
any capital asset) of any company, from any
relocated undertaking referred to in subsection
(2), shall be exempt from income tax  for each
year of assessment within a period of five years,
commencing on April 1, 2009.
( 2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a
“relocated undertaking” in relation to any
company and to any year of assessment
referred to in subsection (1), means an
undertaking—
(a) which prior to November 1, 2007,
was being carried on by that
company in any location within the
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 21
A  in
the principal
enactment.
“Exemption
of profits and
income of
undertakings
relocated
from certain
districts.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
administrative district of Colombo or
Gampaha, with not less than one
hundred individuals employed
therein ;
(b) which is relocated in any location
outside the administrative district
of Colombo and Gampaha and
commencing from a date not
later than March 31, 2009, continues
to—
(i) carry on commercial operations;
and
(ii)employ such number of
individuals as is not less than
the number employed as at
November 1, 2007,
throughout that year of assessment ;
(c) in respect of which the expenditure
incurred in the relocation is not less
than one hundred million rupees ;
and
(d) of which the profits and income
within the meaning of paragraph (a)
of section 3 (other than any profits
and income from the sale of any
capital asset) are exempt from
income tax under any other
provision of this Act or under any
agreement entered into with the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4
of 1978, for a period extending
beyond April 1, 2009.”.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
14. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words from “in which the undertaking commences to
make profits”, to the end of that subsection, of the following
words and figures :—
“in which the undertaking commences to make profits
from transactions entered into in that year of assessment
or from the commencement of the year of assessment
immediately succeeding the year of assessment in which
the undertaking completes a period of two years reckoned
from the date on which the undertaking commences to
carry on commercial operations, whichever occurs
earlier:
Provided that where the period for which the profits
and income are exempt from income tax commences after
April 1, 2008, the period for which such profits and
income are exempt, shall be three years.”.
15. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section:—
(a) by the substitution for the words “of any
venture capital company shall be exempt”,
of the words “of any venture capital
company, derived from any specified
investment in any project referred to in
paragraph (a), (b) or (c) hereafter, shall be
exempt” ; and
(b) by the addition immediately after the proviso
to that subsection, of the following further
proviso :—
“Provided further that, where the venture
capital company commences commercial
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 23 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
operations on or after April 1, 2008, the period
for which the profits and income are exempt
from income tax, be three years.”; and
(2) in subsection (6) of that section,
by the repeal of the definitions of the
expressions “non-performing” and “under
performing”.
16. Section 24 of the principal enactment
is hereby
as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the
substitution for the words from “shall be
exempt from income tax” to the end of that
subsection, of the words  “shall be exempt
from income tax for a period of three years
commencing from the year of assessment in
which such business commences to make
profits from transactions entered into in that
year of assessment or from the commencement
of the year of assessment immediately
succeeding the year of assessment in which
such business completes a period of two years
reckoned from the date on which the business
commences to carry on commercial
operations, whichever earlier.”; and
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section
and the substitution therefor of the following
subsection:—
“(2) The provisions of subsection (1)
shall apply in respect of any business of
providing accommodation to tourists in
Manor Houses or Thematic Bungalows,
carried on by a person registered on or after
April 1, 2003 with  the Ceylon Tourist Board
and for a period of ten years from the date of
such registration.”.
Amendment of
section 24 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
17. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 24B  of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 24C  and section 24D  of that
enactment :—
24c. (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other
than any profits and income from the disposal
of any capital asset) from the operation of any
new undertaking referred to  in subsection (2),
shall be exempt from income tax for a period
of five years commencing from the year of
assessment in which such undertaking
commences to make profits from transactions
entered into in that year of assessment or from
the commencement of the year of assessment
immediately succeeding the year of assessment
in which such undertaking complets two years
reckoned from the date on which the
undertaking commences to carry on commercial
operations, whichever occurs earlier.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1),
“new undertaking” means an undertaking
which—
(a) is not formed by the splitting up,
reconstruction or the acquisition of an
undertaking which was in existence
before November 7, 2007 ;
(b) commences commercial operations on
or after November 7, 2007 ; and
(c) is located within the Eastern Province,
and the sum invested in the undertaking before
April 1, 2010 (other than in land), is not less
than thirty million rupees.
Insertion of new
sections 24
C  and
24D  in the
principal
enactment.
“Exemption
from income
tax of the
profits and
income of
any new
undertakings
located
within the
Eastern
Province.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
24D . (1) The profits and income within the
meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other
than any profits and income from the sale of
any capital asset) of any new undertaking
(other than any specified undertaking) located
in any lagging region and referred to in
subsection (2), shall be exempt from income
tax for a period of five years commencing from
the year of assessment in which such
undertaking commences to make profits from
transactions entered into in that year of
assessment or from the commencement of the
year of assessment immediately succeeding the
year of assessment in which the undertaking
completes two years reckoned from the date
on which the undertaking commences to carry
on commercial operations, whichever occurs
earlier.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) :—
“lagging region” in relation to any year of
assessment means any Divisional
Secretary’s Division determined by the
Minister in consultation with any
appropriate authority and specified by
Order published in the Gazette as being
in a state of economic backwardness in
the year of assessment immediately
preceding that year of assessment ;
“new undertaking” means an undertaking—
(a) which commences commercial
operations on or after April 1,
2008 ; and
(b) in which the sum invested in
the acquisition of capital
assets (other than land), after
November 7, 2007 but before
Exemption
of the profits
and income
of any new
undertaking
located in
any lagging
region.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
March 31, 2010, is not less than
thirty million rupees ; and
“specified undertaking” means an
undertaking engaged in the sale of any
article not produced or manufactured
by such undertaking.”.
18. Section 25 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby farther amended as
follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section:—
(a) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of
paragraph (b) of the proviso to paragraph (a)
of that subsection, for the words “being a ship
which is owned or chartered by a company”,
of the words “being a ship which is owned by
a company” ; and
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (v) of the
proviso to paragraph (k) of that subsection,
for all the words from “his place of
employment or vice versa.”, to the end of
that proviso, of the words “his place of
employment or vice versa.” ;
(2) in subsecton (2) of that section, by the
substitution for the words and figure “of
subsection (1)”, of the words and figure “of
subsection (1)” ;
(3) in subsection (3) of that section, by the
substitution in paragraph (ii) of the further
proviso to paragraph (b) of that subsection,
for the words “for the replacement of such
capital asset”, of the words “for the
replacement of such capital asset” ; and
Amendment of
section 25 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(4) in subsection (7) of that section, by the
substitution in sub-paragraph (vi) of
paragraph (f) of that subsection, for the words
“the proceeds of disposal of such asset, less
any cost of acquisition other than lease rental
paid on such assets by such person acquiring
it”, of the words “the proceeds of disposal of
such assets, less any cost of acquisition other
than lease rental paid on such assets by such
person acquiring it”.
19. Section 26 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended as
follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the addition
immediately after paragraph (u) of that subsection,
of the following paragraph :—
“For the purposes of paragraphs (s), (t) and (u), of
this subsection, the term “employee” shall have
the same meaning as given to such term in section
131 of this Act; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 25 :-”, of
the words and figures “under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 25 :—”.
20. Section 32 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended as
follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
(a) by the substitution for the words “for any year
of assessment shall be his total statutory
income for the year, other than the-”, of the
words “for any year of assessment shall be his
total statutory income for the year other than
the-”; and
Amendment of
section 32 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(b) in paragraph (c) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words and figures
“deducted under section 134 or section 135,
as the case may be;”, of the words and figure
“deducted under section 134;”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
in the definition of the expression “interest income”,
for the words and figure “sub-paragraph (b) of
subsection (3) of this section,”, of the words and
figure “sub-paragraph (b) of this subsection,”;
(3) in subsection (3) of that section, by the addition
immediately after paragraph (d) of that subsection
of the following new paragraphs :—
“(e) the profits and income of such person from
the sale of any Rupee Denominated Treasury
Bond, purchased out of funds drawn from
any Treasury Bond Investment External
Rupee Account ;
(f) where such person is the Credit Guarantee
Fund of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,
the interest accruing to such Fund from
any Treasury Bond issued under the
Registered Stocks and Securities Ordinance
(Chapter 420) or from any Treasury Bill
issued under the Local Treasury Bills
Ordinance (Chapter 417) ;
(g) interest on which income tax has been
deducted under section 95 and accruing to
any person or partnership out side Sri Lanka,
on any corporate debt security within the
meaning of section 135, issued by or on behalf
of any company in Sri Lanka and purchased
by such person or partnership out of foreign
currency brought into Sri Lanka and
converted into Sri Lanka currency for such
purchase ; and

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(h) the profits and income from the sale of any
gem on which tax has been deducted by the
National Gem and Jewellery Authority
established by the National Gem and
Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993,
under subsection (1) of section 161A  of this
Act.”;
(4) in subsection (5) of that section—
(a) in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “such person for
any year of assessment by way of ”, of the
words “such person for any year of assessment
by way of ”;
(b) in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “referred to in
paragraph (c),”, of the words “referred to in
paragraph (c) or paragraph (d),”;
(c) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(c) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph :—
“(d) any loss incurred on or after April 1,
2008, in any business of finance leasing
to the extent of any profits from such
business included in such total
statutory income and the balance, if
any, of such loss after such deduction,
shall be deemed to be a loss for the year
of assessment immediately succeeding
that year of assessment.”;
(5) in paragraph (a) of subsection (6) of that section,
by the substitution for the words and figures
“section 23 or section 24 of this Act,”, of the words
and figures “section 23, section 24, section 24A ,
section 24B , section 24C  or section 24D  of this
Act,”; and

<!-- page 20 -->

19Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(6) in subsection (7) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “shall be ascertained in the manner
provided in this Act”, of the words “shall be
ascertained in the manner provided for in this
Act”.
21. Section 34 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of  2007 is hereby further amended as
follows :—
(1) in subsection (2) of that section :—
(a) by the addition at the end of sub-paragraph
(viii) of paragraph (b) of that subsection, of
the following new sub-paragraph :—
“(ix) the Api Wenuwen Api Fund
established by Api Wenuwen Api Fund
Act, No. 6 of 2008;”;
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (h) of that
section, for the words “(h) expenditure
incurred” to the words “of any film:”, of the
following :-
“(h) (i) expenditure incurred by any
person in the production at a
cost of not less than five million
rupees, of any film the production
of   which was completed prior to
April 1, 2007 ; or
(ii)expenditure incurred by any
person in the production at a cost
of not less than five million rupees,
of any film the production of
which was completed after
April 1, 2007:”;
Amendment of
section 34 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(c) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(m ) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraphs :—
“(n) expenditure not exceeding twenty
five million rupees incurred in the
construction and equipping of a
cinema,  being a cinema—
(i) in which the exhibition
of cinematographic films
commences on or after April 1,
2008 ; and
(ii)which is certified by the National
Film Corporation of Sri Lanka
established  by the National Film
Corporation of Sri Lanka Act, No.
47 of 1971 as being equipped
with digital technology, Digital
Theatre System and Dolby Sound
Systems;
(o) expenditure not exceeding ten million
rupees incurred in the upgrading of a
cinema, being a cinema—
(i) in which the exhibition of
cinematographic films had
commenced prior to April 1,
2008;
(ii)which was not equipped with
digital technology, Digital
Theatre Systems and Dolby
Sound Systems, prior to April 1,
2008; and
(iii) which is certified by the National
Film Corporation of Sri Lanka,
established by the National
Film Corporation of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 22 -->

21Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
Act, No. 47 of 1971 as being
equipped on or after April 1,
2008, with digital technology,
Digital Theatre Systems and
Dolby Systems;
(p) expenditure incurred by any company
in the relocation of any relocated
undertaking referred to in subsection
(2) of section 21
A ; and
(q) any sum invested by any person in an
undertaking referred to in paragraph
(zzz) of section 13.”;
(2) in subsection (4) of that section :—
(a) by the substitution  in sub-paragraph (i) of
paragraph (a) of that subsection, for the words
and figure “(i), (j) and (k) of subsection (2)”,
of the words and figure “(i), (j), (k), (n), (o) and
(q) of subsection (2)”;
(b)  by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iii) (B)
of paragraph (a) of that subsection, for the
words “twenty five million rupees ,”, of the
words “thirty five million rupees,”;
(c) by the addition immediately after sub-
paragraph (vi) of paragraph (a) of that
subsection, of the following new
paragraphs:—
“(vii) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragrahp (n) of
subsection (2) made by him in that
year of assessment, shall not exceed
twenty five million rupees;
(viii) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraph (o) of
subsection (2) made by him in that
year of assessment, shall not exceed
ten million rupees;”;

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(d) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) of
paragraph (b) of that subsection, for the words
and figures “(k),(l) and (m ) of subsection (2),”,
of the words and figures “(k), (l), (m ), (n), (o)
and (q) of subsection (2),”;
(e) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) (B)
of paragraph (b) of that subsection for the
words “twenty five million rupees,”, of the
words thirty five million rupees,”;
(f) by the addition immediately after  sub-
paragraph (iv) of paragraph (b) of that
subsection of the following new sub-
paragraph:—
“(v) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to paragraph  (a)  of subsection
(2) by made by that company, shall
not exceed one fifth of the assessable
income or five hundred thousand
rupees, whichever is less ;
(vi) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraph  (n) of
subsection (2) made by that company
in that year of assessment, shall not
exceed twenty five million rupees;
(vii) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraph (o) of
subsection (2) made by that company
in that year of assessment, shall not
exceed ten million rupees.”;
(3) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “paragraph (c), paragraph (l) or
paragraph (m ) of subsection (2)”, of the words
“paragraph (c), paragraph (h) (ii), paragraph (l),
paragraph (m ), paragraph (n), paragraph (o)  or
paragraph (q) of subsection (2),”; and
(4) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “referred to in paragraph (h) of

<!-- page 24 -->

23Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
subsection (2)”, of the words “referred to in
paragraph (h) (i) of subsection (2)”.
22. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the proviso to subsection (2) of that section, by
the substitution for the words and figure “rate specified in
Part 1 of the First Schedule”, of the words and figure “rate
specified in Part V of the First Schedule”.
23. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 40 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as  section 40
A  of that enactment:—
40A . Such part of the taxable income
of any citizen of Sri Lanka for any year
of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2008, as consists of his profits from
employment as a pilot of any airline licensed
under the Air Navigation Act (Chapter 365),
shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other provision of this Act, be charged
with income tax at the appropriate rates
specified in Part I of the First Schedule to this
Act, provided that the rate of at which income
tax is so charged, shall not in any case exceed
20 per centum.”.
24. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “in any other provisions of this Chapter, or
Chapter X, be chargeable with income tax”, of the words “in
other provisions, but subject to the provisions of section 16
of this Act, be chargeable with income tax”.
25. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—
48. (1) Such part of the taxable income of
any person for any year of assessment referred
to in subsection (2), which consists of the
profits and income from:—
(a) any specified undertaking referred to
in sections 17, 18 or 19;
Amendment of
section 35 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 40
A  in
the principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 48 of the
principal
enactment.“Rates of
income tax
for periods
after the
expiry of the
tax
exemption
period.
Amendment of
section 46 of the
principal
enactment.
“Rates of
income tax
on the profits
from
employment
of any pilot
of any airline
licensed
under the Air
Navigation
Act.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(b) any new undertaking referred to in
sections 20, 22, 24C  and 24D ;
(c) any relocated undertaking referred to
in sections 21 and 21A ;
(d) any venture capital company referred
to in section 23;
(e) any business referred to in section 24;
(f) any new cinema or upgraded cinema
referred to in section 24A ; or
(g) any re-opened abandoned factory
referred to in section 24B ,
shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other provision of this Act, be taxable at
the rate specified in that subsection, as being
applicable to that year of assessment.
(2) The rate of tax applicable to the year of
assessment immediately succeeding—
(a) the end of the period for which the
profits and income are exempt from
income tax, being any year of
assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2008, (hereinafter referred to
as the “first post-exemption year”) shall
be five per centum;
(b) the end of the first post-exemption year
(hereinafter referred to as the “second
post-exemption year”) shall be ten per
centum; and
(c) the end of the second post- exemption
year shall be fifteen per centum.”.

<!-- page 26 -->

25Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
26. Section 53 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “shall be fifteen per centum.”, of the words
“shall for any year of assessment commencing from
April 1, 2008, be ten per centum.”.
27. Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words and figures
“referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section
10:—”, of the words and figures “ referred to in subsection
(1) of section 10:—”.
28. Section 61 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section as follows:—
(1)  by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of that
paragraph, for the words “gross dividends
distributed by such company in such preceding
year, where such company has in the preceding
year distributed”, of the words “gross dividends
distributed by such company out of such
distributable profits, within a period of
eighteen months immediately succeeding the
commencement of such preceding year, where such
company has within such period distributed”; and
(2) in the definition in that paragraph of the expression
“relevant part”:—
(a) by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that
definition, and the substitution therefor of
the following paragraph:—
“(b) to any registered society referred to in
paragraph (h) of section 7, during the
period referred to in that paragraph;”;
(b) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(d) of that definition, of the following new
paragraphs:—
Amendment of
section 54 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 61 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 53 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
“(e) to any unit trust or to any mutual fund;
(f) to Api Wenuwen  Api Fund established
by the Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act,
No. 6 of 2008;”.
29. Section 62 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of
that section, and the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph :—
“(a) sums remitted or retained abroad out of the profits
and income chargeable with income tax of the
company and any sum received outside Sri Lanka
by or on behalf of such company in relation to any
trade, business, profession or vocation carried on
in Sri Lanka by such company, the profits of which
are chargeable with income tax in Sri Lanka, such
sums not including any dividend paid by a resident
company to such non-resident company;”.
30. Section 65 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007 is hereby further amended as
follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the insertion
immediately after paragraph (b) of that subsection,
of the following new paragraphs:—
“(c) the Api Wenuwen Api Fund established by
the Api Wenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of
2008;
(d) any registered society referred to in paragraph
(h) of section 7, during the period  referred to
in that paragraph;
(e) any person who is exempt from income tax
under section 10 in respect of any dividend
received by such  person as referred to in that
section,”;
Amendment of
section 65 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 62 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 28 -->

27Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of
that section, of the following new subsection:—
“(4) The excess of the aggregate of the deductions
made by any resident company under subsection
(1), over the tax payable by such company under
sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1)
of section 61, shall be remitted to the Commissioner-
General within a period of thirty days from the date
on which the gross dividend referred to in that
subsection, is paid.”.
31. Section 79 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (7) of that section as follows:—
(1) in the proviso to that subsection, by the substitution
for the words “employment in Sri Lanka.”, of the
words “employment in Sri Lanka:”; and
(2) by the addition at the end of the proviso to that
subsection, of the following further proviso:—
“Provided further that no individual shall be
deemed to be a non-resident under the provisions
of this subsection, on or after April 1, 2008.”.
32. Section 95 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the proviso to subsection  (1) of that section, as
follows:—
(1) in paragraph (a) of that proviso, by the substitution
for the words “and chargeable as aforesaid; and”, of
the words “and chargeable as aforesaid;”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) of
that proviso of the following new paragraph:—
“(aa) the deduction of tax under this section from
interest on any corporate debt security
referred to in paragraph (g) of subsection
Amendment of
section 79 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 95 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(3) of section 32 and paid or credited on or
after April 1, 2008, shall, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other
provision of this Act, be at the rate of ten
per centum; and”.
33. Section 102 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “the Commissioner-General may reduce or
remit the tax”, of words “the Commissioner-General may
reduce or remove the tax”.
34. Section 104 of the principal enactment is here by
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figure “addressed to the person referred to
in subsection (1),”, of the words and figure “addressed to the
person who carries on either the one or the other or both of
the two associated undertakings, referred to in
subsection (1),”.
35. Section 107 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section , by
the repeal of paragraph (a) of that proviso and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:—
“(a) where such trade, business, profession or
vocation is being carried on or exercised by
any quoted public company or any other
company having a turnover of not less than
two hundred and fifty million rupees or net
profit of not less than one hundred million
rupees for the year, then, notwithstanding that
a notice under this section has not been given
to such quoted public company or  other
company , furnish for that year of assessment
or for that other period, in respect of which
the statutory income for that year of
assessment is computed, such statement and
such schedules as may be specified by the
Commissioner-General, by notice published
in the Gazette;”;
Amendment of
section 107 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 104 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 102 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 30 -->

29Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(2) by the repeal of the proviso to subsection (2) of that
section, and the substitution therefor of the
following proviso:—
“Provided that a statement of accounts in
support of a return of income for any year of
assessment or for any other period on the profits of
which the statutory income for that year of
assessment is computed—
(a) furnished by any quoted public company, in
respect of any trade, business, profession or
vocation carried on or exercised by such
quoted public company;
(b) furnished by any other company in respect of
any trade, business, profession or vocation
carried on or exercised by such company,
where the turnover from such trade, business,
profession or vocation, for that year of
assessment or for that other period, is not less
than two hundred and fifty million rupees or
the statutory income from that trade, business,
profession or vocation for that year of
assessment or for that other period, is not less
than one hundred million rupees; or
(c) furnished by any partner of any partnership
or by any person other than a company,
in respect of any trade, business, profession
or vocation carried on or exercised by
such partnership or by such person, where
the turnover from such trade, business,
profession or vocation, for that year of
assessment or for that other period, is not less
than fifty million rupees or the divisible and
protits of that partnership or the statutory
income of such person, from that trade,
business, profession or vocation for that year

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
of assessment or for that other period, as the
case may be, is not less than twenty five
million rupees,
shall be prepared on the basis of an audit by an
approved accountant.”.
36. Section 113 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in
sub- paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “shall be paid on or before the
fifteenth day of May of the year of assessment immediately
succeeding the year of assessment”, of the words “shall be
paid on or before the thirtieth day of September of that year
of assessment”.
37. Section 131 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the definition of the term “employer”, by the
substitution for the words “body of persons of any
organization -”, of the words “ body of persons or any
organization, other than any Government Institution referred
to in Chapter  XV:—”.
38. The heading of Chapter XV of the principal
enactment is hereby repealed and the following heading
substituted therefor :—
“P
ROVISIONS  RELATING  TO  THE  PAYMENT  OF  INCOME  TAX  BY  A
G OVERNMENT  INSTITUTION  AND  DEDUCTION  FROM  TAX  ON  OFFICIAL
EMOULMENTS  OF  ANY  EMPLOYEE  OF  ANY  GOVERNMENT
INSTITUTION .”.
39. Section 132 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
(a) by the substitution for the words “for any year
of assessment, shall be paid”, of the words
and figures “for any year of assessment
ending on or before March 31, 2008, shall be
paid”; and
Amendment of
section 132 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 113 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 131 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
the Heading to
Chapter XV of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 32 -->

31Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(b) by the repeal of the proviso to that subsection
and the substitution therefor of the following
proviso:—
“Provided that such income tax so paid
shall neither be refunded to such employee
either in whole or in part or deducted from
income tax otherwise payable by such
employee, for that year of assessment.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “the income tax in respect of”, of the
words “the income tax referred to in subsection (1),
in respect of ”; and
(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the repeal of
the definition of the expression “Government
Institution”.
40. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 132 of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 132
A  of that enactment:—
132A . (1) There shall be deducted from the
income tax payable for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 2008, by any
employee of any Government Institution,
whose assessable income for that year of
assessment includes any official emoluments,
such amount as referred to in subsection (2).
(2) The deduction shall be an amount which
bear to the income tax charged on such
employee as referred to in subsection (1) for
such year of assessment, the same proportion
which the official emoluments (other than any
pension, bonus, incentive payments, reward,
“Deduction
from income
tax on the
official
emoluments
of any
employee of
any
Government
Institution.
Insertion of
section 132
A  in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 33 -->

32 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
share of fines or other similar payment) of such
employee for that year of assessment, bear to
the total statutory income of that employee for
that year of assessment.
For the purpose of subsections (1) and (2) of
this section, “official emoluments” means
profits from employment as specified in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 4,
received for services rendered.
(3) For the purpose of this Chapter,
“Government Institution” means any
institution or person which employs
individuals holding any office referred to in
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 8.”.
41. Section 133 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (3) of that section:—
(a) in paragraph (a) of that subsection—
(i) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii)
of that paragraph, for the words “of Sri
Lanka; or”, of the words “of Sri Lanka;”;
(ii) by the addition immediately after
sub-paragraph (iii) of that paragraph,
of the following new sub-paragraphs:—
“(iv) any registered society referred to
in paragraph (h) of section 7,
being interest paid to such
society during the period
referred to in that paragraph; or
(v) the Api Wenuwen Api Fund
established by the Api Wenuwen
Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008;”;
Amendment of
section 133 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 34 -->

33Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (c) of that
subsection, for the words and figure “or
section 96.”, of the words and figure “or
section 95.”;
(2) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “under this section”, of the words and
figure “under subsection (1) of this section”;
(3) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “where any interest payable to any
person”, of the words and figures “ where any
interest referred to in subsection (1)  or any excess
referred to in subsection (2) payable to any person”;
(4) in subsection (7) of that section—
(a) by the substitution for the words and figure
“deducts income tax in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (1) from any interest
paid by it”, of the words and figures “deducts
income tax from the interest paid in
accordance with subsection (1) or on the
excess in accordance with subsection (2)”;
(b) by the substitution for the word “interest”
appearing in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of that
subsection, of the words “interest or excess”;
and
(5) in subsection (8) of that section, by the substitution
in paragraph (d) of that subsection for the word
“interest”, wherever it appears in that paragraph of
the words “interest or excess”.
42. Section 152 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
Repeal of
section 152 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 35 -->

34 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
43. Section 153 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended as
follows:—
(1)  in subsection (1) of that section by the addition
immediately after the proviso to that subsection, of
the following further proviso:—
“Provided further that where it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General that any
person or partnership is registered with the
Department of Inland Revenue as a person or
partnership chargeable with the Economic Service
Charge under the Economic Service Charge Act,
No. 13 of 2006, the Commissioner-General shall
direct that the provisions of this section relating to
the deduction of income tax shall not apply, in
relation to any specified fee payable on or after
April 1, 2008 to such person or partnership.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
in the definition of the expression “specified fee”
for the words “or occupation of any”, of the words
“or occupation, otherwise than as a place of
residence, of any”.
44. Section 155 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “such rent, lease
rent or other payment.”, of the following words and figures:—
“such rent, lease rent or other payment:
Provided that where it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General that any
person or partnership is registered with the
Department of Inland Revenue as a person or
partnership, chargeable with the Economic
Service Charge under the Economic Service Charge
Act, No. 13 of 2006, the Commissioner-General shall
direct that the provisions of this section relating to
Amendment of
section 155 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 153 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 36 -->

35Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
the deduction of income tax shall not apply, in
relation to such rent, lease rent or other payment
payable on or after April 1, 2008, to such person or
partnership.”.
45. Section 156 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “credit for income tax so deducted,
duties of banks and financial institutions,”, of the
words “credit for income tax so deducted, issue of
directions, duties of banks and financial
institutions,”; and
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (2) of
that section, of the following new subsections:—
“(3) Any person or partnership who or which
is liable to deduct income tax from any rent, lease
rent or other payments made by such person or
partnership under this Chapter, shall apply for and
obtain a registration number from the
Commissioner-General thirty days prior to the
commencement of such deduction of tax and shall
furnish a return on a monthly basis, containing such
particulars as may be specificed by the
Commissioner-General in relation to such
deductions.
(4) Any person or partnership who or which
does not register or does not furnish any return as
required under the subsection (3), shall be liable to
a penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupees
which may be imposed by the Commissioner-
General.”.
46. Section 160 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition immediately after the proviso to
that section, of the following further proviso:—
“Provided further that where it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General that any
Amendment of
section 156 of
the  principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 160 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 37 -->

36 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
person or partnership is registered with the
Department of Inland Revenue as a person or
partnership chargeable with the Economic Service
Charge under the Economic Service Charge Act, No.
13 of 2006, the Commissioner-General shall direct
that the provisions of this section relating to the
deduction of income tax shall not apply, in relation
to any annuity, royalty or management fee payable
on or after April 1, 2008, to such person or
partnership.”.
47. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted
immediately after Chapter XX of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as Chapter XXA of that enactment:—
“CHAPTER  XXA
D
EDUCTION  OF  INCOME  TAX  FROM  THE  SALE  PRICE  OF  ANY  GEM
SOLD  AT  ANY  AUCTION  CONDUCTED  BY  THE  NATIONAL  GEM  AND
JEWELLERY  AUTHORITY .
161A . (1) The National Gem and Jewellery
Authority established by the National Gem and
Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993, shall
deduct from the sale price of any gem sold at
any auction conducted by it, income tax of an
amount equal to 2.5 per centum of the sale price
of such gem from the sum payable to the seller
of such gem and at the time such sum is paid to
the seller.
(2) The provisions of Chapter XVI relating
to the deduction of income tax from interest
paid by banks and financial institutions, duties
of banks and financial institutions, default in
the deduction of income tax, issue of
assessments on banks and financial institutions,
appeals and penalty for default, shall, mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to the
deduction of income tax from the sale price of
Insertion of a
new Chapter
XXA in the
principal
enactment.
National
Gem and
Jewellery
Authority to
deduct
income tax
from the sale
price of any
gem sold at
any auction.

<!-- page 38 -->

37Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
any gem, duties of the National Gem and
Jewellery Authority making such sale, default
in the deduction of income tax, issue of
assessments on the National Gem and Jewellery
Authority, appeals and penalty for default under
this Chapter, as if there were substituted in
Chapter XVI for the words “banks and financial
institutions”, of the words “National Gem and
Jewellery Authority”, and for the word
“interest”, of the words “sale price of any gem
sold”, wherever they appear in that Chapter.”.
48. Section 162 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the substitution for the words “an amount equal
to fifteen per centum of those moneys,”, of the words
“an amount equal to ten per centum of those
moneys,”; and
(2) by the substitution in the marginal note to that
section, for the words “fifteen per centum”, of the
words “ten per centum”.
49. Section 163 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “after the fifteenth day of November
immediately succeeding”, wherever those words
appear in that subsection, of the words “after the
fifteenth day of September immediately
succeeding” ; and
(2) in paragraph (b) of subsection (8) of that section, by
the substitution for the words “sworn an affidavit
that no fraud, evasion or willful default as been
committed”, of the words “sworn an affidavit that
no fraud, evasion or willful default has been
committed”.
Amendment of
section 162 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 163 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 39 -->

38 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
50. Section 164 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “notice of
assessment to each person who has been assessed,”, of the
words “notice of assessment to each person and each
partnership who or which has been assessed,”.
51. Section 208 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in
subsection (4) of that section by the substitution for the
words from “or an Assessor of Inland Revenue shall not
exercise” to the end of that subsection, of the following words
and figures:—
 “or an Assessor of Inland Revenue shall not—
(a) act under section 163; or
(b) reach any agreement or make any adjustment to any
assessment made under subsection (7) of section
165,
except with the written approval of the Commissioner -
General or any Deputy Commissioner”.
52. Section 217 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 10 of 2007, is hereby further amended in the
definition of the phrase “approved by the Commissioner-
General”, for the words “when used in relation to a provident
or pension fund means,”, of the words “when used in relation
to a provident fund, gratuity fund or pension fund means,”.
53. The Third Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended by the substitution for item 7 of that
Schedule, of the following item:—
“7. Any society registered or deemed to
be registered as a registered society under the
Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972.
On the taxable income for
any year of assessment
ending on or before
Amendment of
section 217 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
the Third
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 208 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 164 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 40 -->

39Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
March 31, 2008 or
commencing on or after
April 1, 2013
54. The Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended in item 15 of that Schedule, by the
substitution for the words and figures “in accordance with
section 46, and any dividend received from outside Sri Lanka
and other divdends”, of thewords and figures “in accordance
with section 46and any dividends received prior to April 1,
2008, from outside Sri Lanka, and other dividends”.
55. (1) The amendments made to paragraph (h) of
subsection (1) of section 8, subsection (1) of section 23,
“section 26, section 62, section 107 and section 163 of  the
principal enactment, by section 3 (1) (d), section 15 (1) (a),
section 19, section 29 and section 35 and section 49
respectively of this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes to
have come into force on April 1, 2006
(2) The amendments made to subsection (3) of section 32
of the principal enactment by the addition of a new paragraph
(e) to that subsection, by section 20 (3) of this Act, shall
be deemed for all purposes to have come into force on
April 1, 2007.
(3) The amendments made to paragraph (b) of subsection
(2) of section 34 of the principal enactment and the insertion
of new Chapter XXA to the principal enactment, by section
21 (1) (a) and section 47 respectively of this Act, shall
be deemed for all purposes to have come into force on
January 1, 2008.
“(4) The amendments made to the principal enactment
by this Act, other than the amendments specifically referred
to in subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section, shall come
into force on April 1, 2008.”.
56. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
 5 per centum.”.
Amendment of
the Fifth
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.
Retrospective
effect.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of any
inconsistency.

<!-- page 41 -->

40 Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2008
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO .  163,  KIRULAPONA   MAWATHA ,  POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before
  15th December each year in respect of the year following.