

<!-- page 1 -->

1023 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1023
¡â¤ 1, 462 _ 2006 ÌæÀà”æ´Ú 08 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.09.08
No. 1,462 – FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  08,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1026
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1028
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th September, 2006, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 01st September, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N.B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,461 of 01.09.2006 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1024
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1025 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 4 – B 079357

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1026
Posts - Vacant
GOVERNMENT  ANALYST’S  DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of “Experimental Officer”
in the Government analysts’ Department. The applications should
be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and
should be prepared on a paper of size 34x21cm (13”x8”) containing
No. 1-8 in the first page of the application form. Completed
applications should be sent by registered post to reach The
Government Analyst, Government Analyst’s Department,
Independence Square, Colombo 07, on or before 05.10.2006. The
top of left corner of the envelope containing the application should
bear clearly the title “Application for Experimental Officer”.
2. Terms of engagement and conditions of service :—
2.1 The post is permanent and eligible to a contributory
pension under the Contributory Pension Fund. The pension
scheme will operate in respect of person who are already
in pensionable post.
2.2 The selected candidates should be prepared to serve in
any part of the Island.
2.3 The appointment will be given according to the General
conditions applicable for the appointments to the post in
public service and the Recruitment Procedure for
Experimental Officers.
3. Salary Scale.— The consolidated annual Salary of the post
(Group M.N. 4,2006).
178200—10x2,220-4x2,520-15x3,480-7x3,840—289,560
(According  the P.A. Circular No. 6/2006) Efficiency Bar will be
before the third annual salary setps i.e. 184,860.
Note:
Efficiency Bar:
The Selected candidates should pass the efficiency bar Examination
before three years. It is a written examination and will be held once a
year by the Head of department depending on the necessity. The
selected candidates should answer for a question paper and submit a
Thesis. No one will be released from the above efficiency bar on age
grounds.
4. Educational and Other Qualifications :
All applicants should furnish satisfactory evidence in proof of
the following.
4.1 Should be of an excellent moral character and physically
sound.
4.2 Should be over 18 years and under 45 years of age as at
closing date of the application. (maximum age limit will
not be applicable to those who are in the Government
Service).
4.3 Should posses relevant educational qualifications indicated
below as at the closing date of application.
(i)Educational Qualifications.— B.Sc Special Degree in
Chemistry from a recognized University.
5. Method of  Recruitment.—   Recruitment will be made by the
Government Analyst subject to the provisions of the Establishment
code and Recruitment Procedure for the above post, by a structured
interview.
6. Candidates will be required to submit the following documents
whenever requested.
(a) Certificate of birth (note: Baptismal certificate or certificate
of birth issued for the purpose of assised schools will  not
be accepted.)
(b) Degree certificate and the higher Educational certificates.
(c) Two character certificates (one of them should be from
Director in the academic Institute/Lecturer or Professor in
the University).
(d) Certificate in relation to the professional experience or
technical experience.
7. Applicants are required to submit copies of the following
certificates along with their applications.
(a) Degree Certificate ;
(b) Certificate of Registration of birth issued by the Registrar
General.
8. Officers in the Public Service should forward their application
through the respective Head of the Department.
9. If the particulars given in the applications are found to be false
or incorrect before selection, the applicant will be disqualified. If
such detection is made after the appointment he/she will be dismissed
from service without any compensation.
10. Attention is drawn to the General conditions applicable to
the Appointments to the posts in Public Service published at
beginning of part I ; Section (IIA) of the Gazette Notification.
11. Matters not covered by this conditions will be determined by
the Government Analyst.

<!-- page 5 -->

1027 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
12. Number of appointments to be made and the effective dates
of appointment will be decided by the Government Analyst. The
Government Analyst has the authority to decide on the number of
vacancies to be filled or not to be filled any vacancy.
E. G. S
OMAPALA ,
Government Analyst.
Government Analyst’s Department,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd August, 2206.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
(Please use first page to indicate particulars from  para 1-8)
Application for the post of Experimental Officer
Government Analyst’s Department
01. (a) Name with Intitials.———.
(In English Block Capitals)
(b) Name in Full .———.
02. (a) Address .———.
(b) Permanent Address .———.
03.  District of Residence .———.
04.  Sex.———.
05.  National Identity Card No.
06.  Age.———
(a) Date of Birth :
Year.——— ,    Month.———,     Date.———.
(b) Age as at the closing date of the application.
Years.———,   Months.———,  Days .———.
07.  Civil Status (whether married of single) .———
08.  Qualifications .———
(a) Educational Qualifications.
Degree Year Subject University
(b) Professional Qualifications :
.............................................................................................
.............................................................................................
.............................................................................................
09. Particulars of employment and/or  training since leaving
School. (Date of engagement and reasons for leaving
be indicated).
.............................................................................................
.............................................................................................
10. Particulars of present post held.
(a) Post.———.
(b) Department/Institution.——— .
( c) Date of appointment.———.
(d) Whether Permanent/Pensionable/Non-permanent/
Temporary .———.
(e) Whether confirmed in the post.———.
(f) Salary scale of the post and the present salary .———.
11. Have your been convicted in a court of law for a criminal
offence ? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and penalty
imposed ; —————.
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the application
are true and correct, I am also aware that if any particulars contained
herein is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification
if detected before selection and to dismissal without compensation,
if detected after appointment.
——————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date.———.
Recommendation of Head of Department/Co-operation
I declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………………….is serving in
this Department Co-operation, that his/her work and conduct are
satisfactory, that he/she satisfies the qualifications referred to in the
relevant advertisement for this post,  and that he/she can be released/
cannot be released from service if selected for this post.
............................
Signature of Head of Department/
Co-operation/Authorized Officer,
(Official Stamp).
Name .———,
Designation .———,
Address .———,
Date .———.
09-299

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1028
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  GRADE  III  AND  II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
LIBRARIANS’ SERVICE-2006
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade II and III of Sri Lanka Librarians’ Service will be held in Colombo in the month of
December as provided for in paragraphs 09 and 10 of the Sri Lanka Librarians’ Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1002/13 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 19.11.1997.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates are bound by the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(ii)Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at the beginning of the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be
liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of these rules.
03. The specimen form of applicaion for this examination is published at the end of this notice. Candidates should prepare their
own applications correctly and legibly in accordance with the specimen form of application and the application should be sent through the
respective Heads of Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 09.10.2006. The name of the examination and the
relevant grade should be indicated at the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected.
04. Identification of Candidates.—   Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination
hall for each subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid Passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any of the above mentioned documents will be liable to be cancelled on
the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Applications.— Applications should be prepared using both sides of an A4 size paper and the 1st page should include up to
No. 05. The application could be typed but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings, candidates
should pay Rs. 175/- for the whole examination, and Rs. 90/- for one subject. The cash receipt obtained from any post office for payment
of Examination fees should be affixed in the due place of the application. The fees will not be refunded under any circumstance and will not
be transferred in respect of any other examination. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidate.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission cards along with copies of the time table to all candidates
who have paid the relevant fees and whose applications have been filled properly and received on or before the closing date. Candidates
should produce their admission cards to the supervisor of the examination hall and the candidates without admission cards will not be
permitted to sit the examination. If a candidate has not received his admission card at least seven days before the day of examination, he/she
should, without delay, notify the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Palawatta, Battaramulla (Telegraphic
Address : “Exams” Battaramulla) about the non-receipt of the admission card giving the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Full Postal Address ;
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and the Date of Dispatch ;
(v) Certified Copy of the cash receipt if fees were paid.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.

<!-- page 7 -->

1029 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
08. Candidates should answer both question papers is the language medium of the entry examination to the relevant service or in
the official language. Candidates who entered the service without a Competitive Examination should answer both papers in the language
medium of their education or in the official language.
09. The officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions. However, for a pass, officers should obtain at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject.
10. Release of the results of the examination.— The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue the results to the Director
General of Combined Services. The list of names of officers who have passed the Examination will be published in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
11. Scheme of Examination :
11.1 Efficiency Bar examination for the officers in Grade III of the Librarians’ Service :
(i) General Administration-Duration 02 Hours
Chapters I to VIII and XII, XIV , XXIV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII of the Establishments Code are
included.
(ii)Financial Procedure-Duration 02 Hours
Financial Regulation-Part I (excluding Chapter X)
Accounts work performed by librarians and the relevant regulations.
N.B.- Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for each subject to pass this Examination.
11.2 Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II of the Librarians’ Service :
1. General Administration and Financial Procedure-duration 03 hours :
(i) Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(ii)Chapters I to VIII and XIV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII of the Establishments Code
(iii)Sri Lanka Library Association Incorporation Act-714
(iv) Sri Lanka Library Service Board Act
(v) Intellectual Property Act
(vi) Financial Regulations-Part I
(vii)Accounts work performed by Librarians and relevant Regulations
2. Library Organization-duration 03 hours :
(i) Categories and Services of Libraries
(ii)Library sources and Organization
(iii)Government Publications and their uses
N.B.- Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for each subject to pass this Examination.
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd August, 2006.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1030
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade II and III of the Sri Lanka Librarians’ Service-2006
Medium of Language Sinhala-2
in which you are appearing Tamil-3 (indicate the relevant (For Office use only)
for the exam : English-4 No. in the cage)
1. 1.1 Last name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
1.3 Last Name with Initials (in block capitals, eg. SILV A, A. B.) :————.
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
1.5 Date of Birth :
Day : Month : Y ear :
1.6 Sex :   (Female-1/Male-0)              (Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
2. Place of work and Address :
2.1 Name of the Ministry/ Department/Office :——.
2.2 Office Address :————.
3. Present Post :
3.1 Post :————.
3.2 Number of the Appointment Letter :————.
4. Indicate “x” opposite the Efficiency Bar Examination you are applying for in the Sri Lanka Librarians’ Service :
4.1 Grade III of the Librarians’ Service
4.2 Grade II of the Librarians’ Service
4.3 Subject/s  offering 1. ............................
2. ............................
5. 5.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :————.
5.2 If not give following particulars of the affixed cash receipt, received from any post office at the time of paying
examination fees :——.
No. :————. Amount :————.
Date :————. Office issued :————.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
6. Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am eligible to appear for the examination in the medium indicated
above, and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
——————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.

<!-- page 9 -->

1031 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
7. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that,
(i) this candidate is employed in this department as an officer in Grade II/III of the Librarians Service ;
(ii)the particulars furnished above are correct ;
(iii)his/her work and conduct have been satisfactory throughout and he/she has not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning) during the past 5 year period ; and
(iv) he/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
——————,
Signature of the Head of Department
and official stamp.
Designation :——.
Address :——.
Date :——.
09-384
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  I  OF  THE
GOVERNMENT  TRANSLATORS’  SERVICE - 2006
AN  Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Translators’ Service, as provided for in Paragraph 08 of the Translators’s
Service Minute published in the Government Gazette Extraordinary No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in the month of December.
02. The specimen form of application for this examination is published at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared correctly and legibly and the officers should send their applications through the respective Heads of  Departments by registered
post to reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Peleawatta, Battaramulla, before 09th October,
2006. The name of the examination should be indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
03. (i) The application should be prepared on a paper 8"x12" size, using both sides of the paper.
(ii)For the purposes of Official Language Policy, all the officers should prepare and fill their application forms in the
official language.
04.  Syllabus and Scheme of Examination :
1st Subject :- Paper 01
Translation of,
(i) a passage of general interest ; and
(ii)Extracts from –
(a) an official document or report,  and
(b) a newspaper article or report
in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate’s medium of translation :
(i) From Sinhala into Tamil ;
(ii)From Sinhala into English ;
(iii)From Tamil into English.
Duration : 03 Hours
Marks : 100

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1032
2nd Subject :- Paper 02
Translation of,
(i) A passage of general interest ; and
(ii)Extracts from –
(a) an official documents or report ; and
(b) a newspaper article or report
in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate’s medium of translation :
(i) From Tamil in to Sinhala,
(ii)From English into Sinhala,
(iii)From English into Tamil.
Duration : 03 Hours
Marks : 100
Candidates should obtain 40 marks or above for each paper to pass the examination.
05. Candidate’s handwriting will be taken into consideration.
06. Examination Fees :
Examination fees will be levied in  respect of candidates for this examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied in respect of candidates appearing for the first time ;
(b) Fees for appearing on a subsequent occasion will be  Rs. 175 for the full examination and Rs. 90 for a single subject ;
(c) The cash receipt obtained from any post office for payment of examination fees should be affixed in the cage given in
the application. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidates ;
(d) The examination fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination under any circumstances.
07. Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission Cards to all applicants whose applications have been
received. Candidates must get their signatures in the Admission Card attested in advance and produce the Admission
Cards to the supervisor of the examination centre, when presenting themselves for the examination. Candidates without
such Admission Cards will not be permitted either to enter the examination hall or sit the examination.
(ii)Each candidate will be issued a time table along with the Admission Card.
(iii)Candidates are bound by the Rules and Regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
conduct of the Examination. They will be liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the breach of these rules.
(iv) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the beginning of this Gazette.
Note.— The issue of an Admission Card to sit for the examination should not be considered as an acceptance of requisite
qualifications of a candidate to complete at the examination.
08. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, to present  themselves at the Examination. Travelling expenses are not payable.
09. Identifications of Candidates.— Candidates will be required  to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted :

<!-- page 11 -->

1033 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any one of the above mentioned documents in addition to his admission
card is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. If a candidate does not receive his/her admission card at least seven days before the day of examination, he/she should, at once,
notify the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, (Telegraphic Address : “Exams”,
Battaramulla) about non-receipt of the admission card along with the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Full Postal Address ;
(iv) Date on which the application was posted through the Head of the Deapartment, Post Office and the Registration
Number ;
(v) Photocopy  of the cash receipt, if any :
11. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter, which has not been provided
for in this notification.
A. NOBERT ,
Director-General of Combined Services.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd August, 2006.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINA TION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  I  OF  THE
GOVERNMENT  TRANSLATORS’  SERVICE - 2006
(N.B.- This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the candidate’s own handwriting.)
Medium of Language Sinhala-2
in which you are appearing Tamil-3 (indicate the relevant (For Office use only)
English-4
for the exam : No. in the cage)
1. 1.1 Last name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss : ————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :——.
1.3 Last Name with Initials (in block capitals, eg.  SILV A, A. B.) :——.
1.4 National Identity Card No. :——.
1.5 Date of Birth :
Day :——, Month :——, Year :——.
1.6 Sex :——.    (Female-1/Male-0)              (Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
B3-B 079364

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2006
1034
02. Place of work and Address :-
2.1 Name of the Ministry/Department/Office .———,
2.2 Office Address .———,
2.3 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent (in Block Capitals ) .———.
03. Present post :
3.1 Post .———,
3.2 Number of the Appointment Letter .———.
04. 4.1 Are you appearing for the whole examination or only one subject .———,
4.2 Subject offering :
1. ————.
2. ————.
05. 5.1 Are you appearing for this examination for the first  time ? : ————.
5.2 If not, number of the affixed cash receipt received by paying the examination,
Fee .———,
Date .———,
Issued  Post Office .———,
The cash receipt, for payment of Rs. 90 for one subject and Rs. 175 for whole examination
should be affixed here   (Please keep a photocopy for the cash receipt).
7. Certificate of Candidate :
I declared that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium state above, and
that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this examination.
————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date.———,
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that,
(i) this candidate is employed in this Department as a Translator in Class I of the Translators’ Service ;
(ii)the particulars furnished above are correct ;
(iii)his/her work and conduct have been satisfactory  throughout  and he/she has not been subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the 5 years preceding ; and
(iv) he/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
————,
Signature of the Head of Department/
 and Official Stamp.
Designation .———
Address .———
Date .———
09-385
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA