

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SUSANTHA PUNCHINILAME FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Lakshman Ananda Wijemanne M. P.  for
Kalutara District on 01st December, 2015
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
to incorporate the Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 27]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on November 16, 2015)
2—PL 009483—225 (12/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SUSANTHA PUNCHINILAME FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association call and known as the “Susantha
Punchinilame Foundation” has heretofore been formed at
Magossa Terrace, Peduru Kotuwa, Trincomalee, in
Trincomalee District the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Susantha Punchinilame
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Susantha Punchinilame Foundation”  (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter  referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of
“Susantha Punchinilame Foundation”, and by that name may
sue and be sued in all Courts, with full  power and authority
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to work towards the promotion and furtherance of the
rights of women and children ;
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Susantha
Punchinilame
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25
30
2—PL 009340 - 300 (10/2015)

<!-- page 3 -->

Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
(b) to be of assistance to the victims of sudden disasters
and help them to improve their living standards ;
(c) to take measures to protect and preserve the moral
and cultural values of people ;
(d) to provide assistance in developing religious
centres ;
(e) to advise and assist all communties in the country to
live in peace and harmony ;
(f) to provide co-operation and assistance including
financial and other aspects towards the welfare and
economic enhancement of those women who became
widows owing to various reasons including war, and
their children ;
(g) to provide assistance to persons with various abilities
in the field of art, to promote and launch such sctivities
to conduct shows and make available required
accessories and support all other related activities ;
(h) to give physical and qualitative assistance and
encouragement to schools and to enable the school
children to achieve the required educational
qualification ;
(i) to implement a special training programme to build
up a generation of children who appreciate values
and good conduct on practical terms ;
(j) to support and encourage the services provided by
senior citizens movements ;
(k) to take action to provide self employment and
necessary support and training to the unemployed
youth community ; and
10
5
15
20
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
(l) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honorable
Minister Susantha Punchinilame shall be the Chairman of
the Board of Directors for life and thereafter, the family
members of the person who was holding office as the Chairman
shall become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation,
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new members shall be appointed to fill such
Vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four Years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what so
ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable to open, operate and close bank accounts, to  borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any building
or structures on any land held by the Corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Power of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any General Meeting of the members and by a majority
of  not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting
to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) Classification of membership, admission
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the excercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution,  fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as  the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
power, duties and function under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease,  gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities of the Corporation or for any other purpose, be
liable to make any contribution exceeding the among of
such membership fees as may be due from him to the
Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
not be give or transferred to some other institutions or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their  members.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
Liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper account to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of person as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
5
15
20
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Susantha Punchinilame Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .