

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th  October,  2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th  September , 2020.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 172
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... —
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"194- 2020 iemaa;eïn¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'09'18                                                               
No. 2,194 - FRiDAy ,  SEPTEMBER  18, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
B 82059-353 (09/2020) 171


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'09'18
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 18.09.2020
172
PRiNTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANkA.
notIce for  cancellatIon of  grant,  
Issued under the sub sectIon  
(4) of  sectIon  19  of the   land  
development ordInance (sectIon 104) 
N. J. T. Anuradha Divisional Secretary /Deputy land  
Commissioner (inter Province) of the Divisional Secretariat 
of  Passara in the  District of  Badulla in Uva province,                        
here by  inform that  the actions are being  taken to cancel the 
grant, give in terms of  Section  19 (4)  of Land  Development 
Ordinance by the  Excellency  President on 27.06.1986 bearing 
No. nÿ$m% 5759  to Sulai Waithilingam Lechchumi of Debedda 
Dikillapotha   registered on 12.11.1987 No. m/L.D.O. 1738 
at Badulla  District Register  Office,  under  the Section 104 
of the same ordinance as  it has been  reported  that  there is 
no  successor for the  land,  mentioned in  below schedule 
owning to the   reason either non  availability  of a  person 
who  legally entitles for the  succession  of she  dislikes  for 
behind a  successor once  such person  is available  in case  
any  objection, 09.10.2020  with this  regard are available this  
should be  informed me  in written. 
land development ordinance notices
 schedule
The portion of state land, containing  in extent obout 0.254 
hectare - Acres  - roods  - Perches, out of extent marked              
lot  5  as depicted in the blocking out  plan bearing No. uQ 
ms' 230  Made by surveyor generals in the booking   out plan 
bearing No.  made by -  in the  diagram and kept in charge of 
-  Which situated in the   village  called Ulpenarawa Bearing 
to the  Grama Niladhari Division of Udagama West  in 
Passara  korale coming  within the area of author  of Passara 
Divisional Secretariat in the Administrative District of Badulla  
as bounded by  - 
On the North by  : Lot Nos. 2 1/2 and 1;
On the East by  : Lot No. 3  ;
On the South by : Lot No. 7  ;
On the West by  : Lot Nos. 1 and 6.
 
N. J. T. aNuradha ,
 Divisional Secretary,
 Passara.
 
16th July,   2020.
09-372