

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2305$03 – 2022 fkdjeïn¾ ui 07 jeks i÷od – 2022'11'07
No. 2305/03 – MONDAY, NOVEMBER  07, 2022
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 38003 – 14 (11/2022)
My No.: CI/1260.   
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Hatton National B ank PLC, No. 479, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10  
of the one part and Ceylon  Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 17th December, 
2021 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industri al Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments 
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956). 
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
19th October, 2022.
Collective Agreement No. 05 of 2022
This Collective Agreement made this 17th December, 2021 between Hatton National Bank PLC, a Bank duly registered in 
Sri Lanka and having its registered oﬃ  ce at 479, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank’).
of the one part
and


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 2A
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union (Union), a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered oﬃ  ce at 
No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union)”. 
of the other part
Whereas the Union submitted proposals for a revision of salarie s and other beneﬁ ts in respect of their members among 
the employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement an d subsequent to negotiations between the Ban and the 
Union, agreement has now been reached between the said two part ies for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms 
and conditions, cooperation  between the Bank, the Union and th e employees and maintaining an eﬃ  cient and productive 
working environment, the matters so agreed upon are set out hereunder.
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound.–  This Agreement shall cover and bind Hatton National Bank PLC (“ The 
Bank”), the Ceylon Bank Employees’ (the Union) and members of the Union employed by the Bank in the category of Junior 
Executives (hereinafter referred to as the “employees”) for whom salary ranges have been prescribed in this Agreement. 
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall come into force on the 1st April 2021 and shall continue 
until either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given 
before the 31st March, 2024. The Union shall, however, have the  right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective 
Agreement at any time on or after 1st July 2023.
3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding 
on the parties hereto and such earlier Agreements shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto..
    4 .  Matters Covered and Bound.–
 (a) This Agreement shall be in full and ﬁ nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters 
raised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion 
of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement 
raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement 
except to the extent agreed.
 (b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this Agreemen t that in relation to present employees they  
shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms 
and conditions of employment or beneﬁ ts presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement 
other than by mutual agreement.
   5 .  Consolidated Salary.–
 (a) With eﬀ ect from 1st April 2021, each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid salaries 
in accordance with the salary ranges prescribed hereunder.
 Junior Executive Grade 1 – Rs. 80,000/- to Rs. 135,000/-
 Junior Executive Grade 2 – Rs. 90,000/- to Rs. 185,000/-
 Junior Executive Grade 3 – Rs. 100,000/- to Rs. 260,000/-
 (b) Annual increments will be based on performance in accordance w ith the performance appraisal scheme of 
the Bank subject to a minimum increment of a sum equal to 3% p.a. of an employee’s salary subject to the 
condition that those who are rated as “Does not meet expectation” will not receive any increment.
 (c) The scale of rating under the performance appraisal scheme to determine levels of performance of employees 
for the grant of annual increments will be as given below.
 Outstanding – 1 - 1.24 - Achievement above 121%
 Exceed Expectation – 1.25 - 1.74 - Achievement between 106% to  120%
 Meet Expectation – 1.75 - 2.49 - Achievement between 95% to 10 5%
 Below Expectation – 2.50 - 3.49 - Achievement between 75% to 9 4%

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 3A
 Does not meet Expectation – 3.50 - 4.99 - Achievement below 74 %
  The Union shall be engaged in deliberations in the event of any changes to existing performance appraisal 
scheme and thereafter the new scheme will be informed to the employees.
   6 .  Conversion to Revised Salaries with eﬀ ect from 1st April 2021.– For the placement of an employee in the salary 
range as set out at Clause (5) above with eﬀ ect from 1st April 2021, the following provisions shall apply.
 (i) A sum equal to 14% of the basic salary payable to an employee as at March 2021 shall be added to the basic 
salary paid to each employee in the month of April 2021.
   7 .  Incremental Date.– The annual incremental date will be 1st April.
   8 .  Fuel Allowance.– Employees will be entitled to receive a conveyance/fuel allowan ce in accordance with the 
amounts stated below:
 Junior Executive Grade 1 – a sum equal to 65 litres of petrol per month
 Junior Executive Grade 2 & 3 – a sum equal to 90 litres of pet rol per month
   9 .  Holiday Allowance.– 
 (a) The Bank shall pay a lump sum allowance in accordance with the  amounts stated below:
 Junior Executive Grade 1 & 2 – Rs. 60,000/- p.a.
 Junior Executive Grade 3 – Rs. 65,000/- p.a.
 (b) In the case of an employee promoted during the course of a yea r, the payment for a period of service less 
than a completed calendar year will be computed proportionately at the rate of 1/12th of such entitlement in 
respect of each completed month of service.
  10. Special Payments.–
 (a) Tea and Dinner Allowance
  Parties agreed that employees covered and bound by this agree ment shall not be entitled for overtime payment. 
However, Tea and Dinner allowance will be paid for work outside normal working hours on a normal working 
day as follows:
 ½ hour - Rs. 250/-
 1 hour - Rs. 450/-
 Up to 1 ½ hours - Rs. 600/-
 Up to 2 hours - Rs. 800/-
 Up to 2 ½ hours - Rs. 850/-
 Up to 3 hours - Rs. 950/-
 Up to 3 ½ hours - Rs. 1000/-
  4 hours and above would be at the rate of Rs. 500/- for one f ull hour.
 (b) Working on Holidays
  Parties agreed that all statutory payment are included in the  salary of an employee and in addition for work on 
a holiday an employee will be paid a sum of Rs. 750/- for each completed hour so worked. Further, allowance 
which is granted through Human Resources Division Circular No. 947/2008 for employees who work on 
holidays will be revised to Rs. 3,000/- provided they cover min imum of 5 ½ hours of work. However, any 
increase to the amount granted through the aforesaid circular will be at the sole discretion of the management.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 4A
 (c) Disturbance Allowance
 (i) Employees reporting for work prior to 7.00 a.m. will be pa id a sum of Rs. 2,250/- in respect of such 
day.
 (ii) Employees required to perform work in relation to ATM bre akdowns during non - working hours 
including weekends and other holidays will also be entitled to a payment of Rs. 2,500/- in respect of 
each such instance.
 (d) Pawning
  Employees engaged in duties relating to the pawning of articl es in the Bank will receive an allowance of 
Rs. 250/- per day subject to a maximum allowance of Rs. 4,500/- per mensem.
   1 1 .  Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, an eligible employee in 
service as at the date of payment covered by this agreement, a bonus as per the following basis on the basic salary as drawn 
by such employee for the month of December in respect of one co mplete year of service, meaning January to December 
and proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of one twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete 
month of service.
*** The bonus payable on Bank performance will accrue to eligib le employees of the bank in any particular year only if 
the bank achieves an increase in NPAT of the corresponding financial year by minimum of 15% as against previous year.
   12. Provident Fund.–
 (a) Rate of Contribution
  The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank s hall be:
 Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve per cent) of salary
 Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
  Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated sal ary referred to at Clause 5 hereof subject to 
the Rules of the Provident Fund.
 (b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by Banks
  Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Ban k shall continue to pay the rate of interest 
paid on 12 months’ ﬁ xed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/- published by the N.S.B. or HNB whichever is 
higher prevailing as at the 1st January for the ﬁ rst half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st July 
for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
 (c) Deﬁ ciency in Bank’s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension
  Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitled him to 
a pension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be such employee shall be entitled to the diﬀ erence 
Year Fixed
Bonus
Bank 
Performance 
***
Individual Performance
Outstanding Exceed 
Expectation
Meet 
Expectation
Below 
Expectation
 2021 2.5 months 1.5 months 1 month 0.5 month 0.35 month 0.5 mo nth
 2022 2.5 months 1.5 months 1 month 0.5 month 0.35 month 0.5 mo nth
 2023 3.0 months 1.5 months 0.75 month 0.25 month  0.5 month

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 5A
between the Bank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum 
rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act and its 
amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by t he employer on behalf of such employee. 
Such deﬁ ciency will be the diﬀ erence between the following minimum rates of contribution und er the Act 
and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Banks up to 31st March 1992.
 From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80 - 9% of gross salary
 From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.70 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which 
was less than 10% of basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
   13. Death Gratuity.– On the death of an employee who has been conﬁ rmed and is in the permanent employment of the 
Bank, the Banks will make a compassionate payment of two months basic salary for each year of completed service subject 
to a minimum of nine months’ basic salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by 
the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information sup plied to them. In the case of the death of an employee who is 
not conﬁ rmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a conﬁ rmed employee provided that in the 
case of an employee who has not been conﬁ rmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will 
be calculated as in the case of a conﬁ rmed employee.
   Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of  and in the course of employment, the dependents shall 
be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under any laws in 
force at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. 
Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity 
as provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to 
them under any written law.
   14. Gratuity on Resignation/Termination prior to Retirement.– An employee shall, upon resignation/termination 
of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which do not  entitle him to the terminal beneﬁ  ts referred to at the 
aforementioned Clauses be entitled to a gratuity computed in te rms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be 
paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment.
   The Salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referr ed to at Clause 5.
   Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/leave without 
pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.
   15. Promotions.–
 Grade I
 (a) Any employee promoted to the grade of Junior Executive from the Grade of Bank Associate will be entitled 
to an addition of Rs. 4,000/- to his last drawn gross monthly salary as a Bank Associate and he shall thereafter 
be placed within the salary range for Junior Executives as provided for at Clause (5) above. His salary and 
other entitlements will thereafter be in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
 (b) On promotion, an employee will serve a period of probation of 06 months. This period shall be extendable by 
a period of 3 months. An employee who does not reach the required level for conﬁ rmation will be reverted 
to the post from which he was promoted.
 Grade II
 Following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade 1 to Grade 2.
 (a) An employee who is eligible under following criteria (b) will be considered for promotion to Grade 2 subject 
to an application being made by the employee.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 6A
 (b) An employee eligible to make such application will be -
 (i) A Junior Executive with 3 years’ service in Grade 1, with a good all round record of service and has 
successfully completed at least Part 1 of the examination conducted by the Institute of Bankers.
 (ii) A Junior Executive in Grade 1 who is not eligible for pro motion to Grade 2 in terms of (i) above, will 
be considered for promotion to Grade 2 subject to completion of 5 years’ service in Grade 1 and a good 
all round record of service.
 (c) A Junior Executive in Grade 1shall on promotion to Grade 2 receive an increase of Rs. 2,500/- in his monthly 
basic salary with effect from the date he is so promoted.
 (d) An employee will be considered for promotion from the first da te of the month succeeding the month in 
which the application is received by the Human Capital Department.
   Grade III
 Following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade 2 to Grade 3.
 ( a) An employee who is eligible under following criteria (b) will be considered for promotion to Grade 3 subject to 
an application being made by the employee. 
 ( b) an employee eligible to make such application will be - 
 (i) A Junior Executive with 3 years’ service in Grade 2 with a  good all round record of service and has 
sucessfully completed at least Part 1 of the examination conducted by the Institute of Bankers.
 (ii) A Junior Executive in Grade 2 who is not eligible for pro motion to Grade 3 in terms of (i) above, will 
be considered for promotion to Grade 3 subject to completion of  5 years’ service in Grade 2 and a 
good all round record of service.
 ( c) A Junior Executive in Grade 2 shall on promotion to Grade 3 r eceive an increase of Rs. 3,500/- in his monthly 
basic salary with eﬀ ect from the date he is so promoted.
 ( d) An employee will be considered for promotion from the ﬁ rst date of the month succeeding the month in which 
the application is received by the Human Capital Department.
 16. Annual Leave, Medical and Casual Leave
 ( a) Annual Leave 
 (i) Entitlement
  In respect of each year of employement (which means the perio d January to December) during which 
an employee has been in continuous employement he shall be enti tled to take in the following year 
21 working days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive 
days and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working 
days.
 (ii) Availment
  The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorisa tion of the Bank upon the employee’s 
application, giving suﬃ  cient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 7A
 (iii) Accumulation
  Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively fo r the following purposes. 
 ( a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mu tual arrangement with the Bank.
 ( b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriou sly ill.
 ( c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.
 ( d) For marriage of the employee.
 (e) Prolonged illness of the employee.
 ( f) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee hs exhausted his current 
year’s leave.
 ( g) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
 Provided that in the case of ( b) to ( d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the 
Management. Family member for purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents. 
 Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year 
and provided further that such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days.
 ( b) Medical Leave 
 (i) Entitlement
  An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (2 4) days leave exclusive of weekly or other  
holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subj ect to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) 
hereof. 
 (ii) Availment
  The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days  of absence on grounds of sickness not 
supported by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
 ( a) Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days inc luding weekly or other holidays, 
or
 ( b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on groun ds of sickness, uncertiﬁ ed by a 
Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.
 (iii) Accumulation
  An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one ye ar as prescribed above shall be entitled 
to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succedding year or years, subject 
to the following provisions:
 ( a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed 
One Hundred and Twenty (120) days, and
 ( b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalisation 
or similar circumstances, supproted by Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
 ( c) where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such 
as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalisation an employ er may permit him to set oﬀ  any 
further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the 
leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 8A
 (iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the  employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / 
or take any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported 
by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :
 ( a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona ﬁ  des of the application and / or reason 
for absence of an employee, or
 ( b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness imme diately follows or pracedes 
any weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause t o suspect the bona ﬁ des of the 
application and / or reason for absence of the employee.
 ( c) Casual Leave 
  An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of senven (7) days  casual leave in each year of employment. 
All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such absence is justiﬁ ed 
to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseen by such 
employee.
 17. Retirement
 ( a) The age of retirement shall be as per the age speciﬁ ed in ‘‘Minimum Retirement Age of workes Act,  No. 
28 of 2021’’, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its employees, and on reaching the 
age speciﬁ ed in “Minimum Retirement Age of workers Act, No. 28 of 2021’’, or any other age mutually 
agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be 
no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.
 ( b)  An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retireme nt beneﬁ ts if he is not less than 50 years and 
has 10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement be tween the employee, his Union and the 
employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party 
ot agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute and industrial dispute.
 ( c) An employee who is found be unable to continue to perform his duties as a resulf of inﬁ rmity/disability, as 
certiﬁ ed by the Bank/s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent 
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous 
service (excluding absence/leave without pay) is entitled to a pension or any other superannuation scheme 
introduced by the Bank in lieu of Pension. Provided, however, t hat where an employee is entitled to 
compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or an Award of Court, such employee shall 
only be entitled to pension or such compensation as opted by hi m, but not to both. Provided further that 
in the case of an employee whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which 
entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of pension or a beneﬁ t under any other superannuation 
scheme introduced by the Bank in lieu of such pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such 
employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation under any written law. 
 18. Suspension
 ( a) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry  on investigation, he will, subject to the 
provisions of sub-clauses (b) and (c) below, receive half his s alary from the date of suspension up to six 
months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
 ( b) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving ﬁ nancial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation 
the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the peri od of suspension unless the inquiry is not 
concluded within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary (salary 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 9A
plus cost of living allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the 
delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or  due to the employee being in custody 
or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as 
aforementioned will not be payable.
 ( c) In cases not involving ﬁ  nancial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is pr evented from 
concluding the inquiry within six months of suspension for reas ons beyond the employer’s control such 
as where the employee makes repeated requests for postpnements or where he is remanded or in Police 
custody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half 
his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.  
 19. Disciplinary Procedure.– Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, 
in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor oﬀ enses, the following procedure shall 
apply:
 ( a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show 
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause 
letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation 
in writing to the charges preferred.
 ( b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the 
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable 
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation 
and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time 
as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
 ( c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause 
and the Bank is satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee 
and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to 
such employee his salary and entitlements in respect fo the period of such suspension.
 ( d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is 
not satisﬁ ed with such expalanation, the Bank shall, subject to subclause (k)(iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into 
the charges against such employee.
 ( e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as refrred to in-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the date 
of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for 
reasons beyond the Bank’ control, or by reason tof the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of 
unforeseen circumstances.
 ( f) The Bank will permit a member of the Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused 
employee or an oﬃ  ce bearer of the Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itself the 
right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) or an Executive Committee 
Member of the Union employed in the Bank to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided 
the defending employee has not obtained a legal quliﬁ cation. The defending employee will not suﬀ er any 
loss of salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank will further allow another member to the 
Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused 
employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and Observer not less than 
48 hours befor the time appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. The defending employee shall be 
entitled to examine the withnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The 
Iquiring Oﬃ  cer will be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with 
such requirement. The absence of a defending employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry 
for any reason whatsoever thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he 
may answer any question which the Inquring Oﬃ  cer may ask him.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 10A
 ( g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceddings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and 
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certiﬁ ed and 
a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a ture 
copy of such proceeding before the Inquiring Oﬃ  cer.  In respect of any document marked at an inquir, the 
Bank will release copies of such documents to the Union with the proceedings, provided however, that the 
Bank may refuse to release any such documents provided such documents in its opinion are of a conﬁ dential 
nature.
 (h ) The Inquiring Oﬃ  cer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution 
as well.
 ( i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry Bank shall inform the employee, in writing, 
of the ﬁ ndings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.  
 ( j)  Where the Bank fails to imform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days 
except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee 
shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be 
drawn in respect of such charges.
 ( k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be requied to hold a domestic inquiry in any of 
the following circumstances :
 (i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation  before the expiry of the time allowed to 
show cause in which event the Bank shall be entitiled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such 
employee had no cause to show.
 (ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the charg es against him.
 (iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without  prejudice to the Union’s right to request 
the Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence 
within twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanaiton shall not be material 
or relevant.
 ( l) The ﬁ ndings of a demestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be ﬁ nal and binding 
on the Bank and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall withiin three (3) months 
from the date on which the Bank had notiﬁ ed such employee of the ﬁ ndings or punishment, raises a dispute 
in respect of such ﬁ ndings and / or punishment.
 ( m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that - 
 (i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then t he termination of such employment shall 
take eﬀ ect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine; provided further 
that the Bank shall not be entitliled to recover from the emoloyee any payment made in respect of salary 
to the employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made.
 (ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, t hen the employee shall be employed forthwith 
and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to 
the right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the 
whole or part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the ﬁ ndings of the inquiry.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 11A
 ( n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held 
in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referrd, to the Police or other 
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the 
employee.
 ( o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this 
Agreement.
 20. Medical Scheme
 (i). Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalisation Expenses
  The Bank will reimburse an employee up to a maximum of Rs. 55 ,000/- per annum with eﬀ ect from 01st  
April 2021 and Rs. 60,000/- with eﬀ ect from 01st April 2022 in respect of medical expenditure incurred by 
him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 21 and the 
parents of the employee in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non-surgical and specialist treatment, and 
subject to the following:
 ( a) All medical claims shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. The maximum 
validity period of Medical Bills and receipts will be four years from the date of issuance.
 ( b) Prescriptions or Doctor’s bills are from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
 ( c) The unutilised portion of the allocation for the year could b e utilized in the future years without any 
restrictions subject to valid bills being submitted within a reasonable period of time as aforesaid.
 (ii) The Bank will further reimburse a sum upto a maximum of R s. 25,000/- on a non-cumulative basis for Medical 
Reports in respect of an Annual Health Checkup only for the employees over 35 years of age. Further, spouse 
of an employee who are over 35 years of age will be entitled for Annual Health Checkup within the same 
limit entitled to the employee subject to the following.      
 
 (a)  The entitlement could be utilized within a Calendar year.
 (b) The medical tests speci ﬁ ed in the Annexure I and any other medical tests prescribed by a Registered Medical 
Practitioner must be carried out concurrently to be entitled for reimbursement.  
 (c) The Claim Form accompanying the bills should be forwarded to the Talent Rewards and Bene ﬁ ts Division, Head 
Ofﬁ ce for payment.
 (iii) SPECIAL NON - HOSPITALISATION AND NON - SURGICAL EXPENDITURE.– The Bank will reimburse an employee 
on a non - cumulative basis a combined allowance maximum upto Rs. 60,000/- for undermentioned purposes on behalf 
of the employee and not on behalf his family members. 
 (a)  Spectacles            
 (b) Dentures and nerve Fillings          
 (c) Hearing Aids         
  Subject to valid documentation as in the case of (i) above and subject to the provisions that no claim is made in relation 
to any particular item referred in iii (a) & (c) more than once in three years, and in the case of spectacles it must be 
supported by a prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist. Further, employees will be able to make claims on dentures 
and never ﬁ lling for any number  of occasions within the stipulated  Limit. Provided further however, in the case of 
employees over the age of 45 years, a claim for spectacles may be allowed once in two years.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 12A
 (iv) SURGICAL AND HOSPITALISATION EXPENDITURE .–   Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and 
hospitalisation (whether Government or Private) expenses incurred on behalf of the employee his spouse and unmarried 
legitimate children under 21 years of age, subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or 
expenditure, up to the following limits per annum :  
  (a)  Hospital or Nursing Room Charges :   Standard
    Daily limit     -  A/ C Room charge per day
    Government Hospital  Allowance - Rs 7,500 per day
  (b) Emergency Treatment Travel expenses (maximum) - Rs 4, 000/-
    * The rate is Rs 50/- per Kilometer  Or  Rs. 5,000/-
         Subject to Submission of valid receipt.
  (c) Overall Limit for any one year  -         Rs 400, 000/-
Hospitalization charges on normal birth will be permitted from the Bank's Surgical and Hospitalization Expenses Scheme.
The First Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
 (v) Maternity Grant
 (a) An employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of Rs. 12,000/- in respect of two births of children. 
If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall be entitled to this grant.
 (b) In the case of reimbursement under surgical and hospitalisation expencess, for maternity, an employee shall 
not be entitled to the grant in terms of (i) above.
   2 1 .  Trade Union Action. –
 (a) MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT :
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of 
Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective 
action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.
 (b) MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT :
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of 
Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective 
action against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement 
until –
 (i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably 
with the Bank, at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer 
such matter to the Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union).
 (ii)  The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted 
all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Feder-
ation of Ceylon.
 (iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to 
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory 
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to 
the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner General of Labour.
 (iv) A dispute arising out failed negotiations for a fresh Collective  Agreement  after 31st day of March 2024, 
cannot be construed  interpreted  and/or implied by the Employer  as a dispute related and covered  by 
this Agreement.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 13A
   2 2 .  The Union Check-off . – During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not 
less than forty (40) percent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant 
check-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of 
the Union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
   2 3 .  Release of parent Union/ Branch Union Ofﬁ ce Bearers . – 
 (a) The Bank shall, at its discretion, permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Of ﬁ ce Bearers 
on any one occation with pay to attend conferences at the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, Labour 
Department inquiries before the Labour Tribunals, Arbitators or Industrial Courts and for discussions 
with the Management with regard to a dispute between the Union and/ or its members and the Bank. 
 (b) It is agreed that Central Committee Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.30 p.m. on 
12 days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation Central Committee Meetings, they would be 
permitted leave for the whole day for 12 Central Committee Meetings in a year.
 (c) The Bank shall permit branch union of ﬁ ce bearers or the Central committee members of the branch 
union employed by the bank paid leave to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s 
leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total number of days paid leave 
available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than 30 miles from 
Colombo. The release of Central committee members or branch union of ﬁ ce bearers shall not exceed 
six employees at any given time in terms hereof and/ or under any other Agreement between parties.
 (d) The Bank agrees to release once every 02 years for the Delegates Conference of the Union all such  
delegates in the employment of the Bank up to a maximum of 01 day provided however, that the number 
to be released shall be discussed and agreed between the branch union and the management and such 
release will not result in a disruption to the operations of the Bank.
 (e) Of ﬁ ce bearers of the Parent Union or the Branch Union shall be released for Union work without             
payment of any salary, allowance or any other payment of whatever nature on the following basis.
 (a) The total number of Of ﬁ ce Bearers so released in terms of this Agreement or any other Agree-
ment shall not exceed one.
 (b) No employee shall be released for more than two years on a single occasion during a period 
of six years.
 (c)  On resumption of work by an Of ﬁ ce Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall 
receive incremental credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not 
affects his rights relating to terminal beneﬁ ts.
 (f) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to central                 com-
mittee members to attend Parent Union General Council meetings.
 (g) It is agreed that Central  Committee members will be released as appropriate for meetings of the Central 
Committee of the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
    24. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement. -
 (a)  Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatis ﬁ ed with the manner in which the Collective Agree-
ment is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer                          
technology change such matter shall be dealt with by a monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting 
of two representatives from the Bank and two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union 
may request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to 
the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 14A
 (b) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under 
Section 3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950.
   25. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.  - On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, 
beneﬁ ts, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.
   26. Deﬁ nitions. - In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall 
have the follwing meanings.
Bank Hatton National Bank Plc.
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement
Employer Hatton National Bank PLC.
Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Hatton 
National Bank PLC.
 Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the 
Industrial Disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between 
any of the Banks who are parties to this Agreement and the Branch 
Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at such respective Bank.
   Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
 
   Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
The First Schedule
 1) 
a) The bene ﬁ ts of the scheme will accure to the employee but will cover those persons speciﬁ ed in Clause 20 
(iv) of the Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately 
on becoming eligible to be included in this Scheme.
   No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
 2) Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
 3) The Bank must be noti ﬁ ed promply, and in any event not later than on the ﬁ rst business day following admission 
to hospital.
 4) The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this Scheme and the 
employee shall be required to make declarations (including completion and singing of Insurance Proposal forms) 
and submit documentation required by Bank/ Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to 
obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time 
to time the documentary requirements and time limits within which documents should be submitted. Where an 
employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to beneﬁ ts under this Scheme.
 5) Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima ﬁ de when making declarations and submitting claims under 
this Scheme and any deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any bene ﬁ t under this Scheme. In 
addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set-out in this Agreement.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 15A
 6) a) The Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ nursing homes, 
expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme. Additions and/ or         
deletions to this list will also be made by internal circular.
  b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee beleives he may not be in a position to use any of the 
Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list 
of amendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to 
use a named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such application on a case by case basis 
and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the decision 
of the Bank on this matter shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
 7)  Exclusions
     The Scheme shall not Coner bene ﬁ ts / expenses :
  a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside Sri
   Lanka.
  b) Occasioned by or happening through
  i) The participation by the employee or other  eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of 
Foreign Enemy, Hostilities (where war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, 
Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving as a member of 
any Defence, Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.
  ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal Diseas, Insanity and illnesses resulting from Acquired 
Immune Deﬁ ciency Syndrome.
  iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 20(iv). Provided that if an employee has been 
employed for a continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred 
for any abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. 
The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such 
as a letter from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
  iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.
  c. Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard 
type of civil aircraft operated by a recognized Airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard 
type of civil aircraft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned 
by a Commercial or Industrial ﬁ rm and piloted by a Pilot holding a  Commercial Pilot’s License.
  d. In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
  e. Arising from any physical defect or in ﬁ rmity which existed prior to conﬁ rmation in the Banks Service.
 8) The bene ﬁ ts under this Scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in Clause 20 (iv) of the 
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31 st December. In the case of employees who join 
during the course of a year the overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will 
be pro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st December.
 9) In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the 
entitlement of either or both years, subject, however, to the event limit speciﬁ ed in Clause 20 (iv) of the Agreement.
 10) Bank shall review the permission of Hospitalization charges on Normal Delivery  and relaxation of children age 
limit to 21 years and recurrent illness clauses prevailed in 2012 collective Agreement, in the event scheme is 
undertaken by the insurance Provider.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 16A
The Second Schedule
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology by the B ank 
covered and bound by this Agreement.
   1.  Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of  VDU/ non VDU tasks whi ch 
seek to provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.
   2. The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper safety and  
effectiveness of the operation.
   3. The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with adequate training within the parameters of their job description to  ensure  the 
safety and health of employees.
   4 .  (a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain equipment, which will ensure the following :
 (i) Screens that give clear stable images.
 (ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
 (iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
 
 (b) The Banks will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
     The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents 
and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.
     The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
     Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Banks, is the operation of a VDU, will 
be permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to his 
commencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the Optician, the employee 
should inform the Bank immediately.
  Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Managment of the Bank, is the operation of a 
VDU, and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the ﬁ rst time, he will be permitted, 
at the expenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion 
as to whether any modiﬁ cation is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and modi ﬁ cation to the lenses if 
necessary, will be borne by the Bank on the following basis :
 (i) The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Assistance Scheme 
herein.
 (ii) The cost of modi ﬁ cation of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost should exceed 
the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.
   5.  Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Ba nk 
is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no  
disruption of the smooth ﬂ ow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
   6. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of 
the Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations as to whether the main or 
primary function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute being raised on this issue.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 17A
   7. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence 
of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank  may avail itself of any one or more of the 
following options:
 (a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform work which is 
within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to 
such employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would under 
normal circumstances be entitled to effect.
 (b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the employer considered it necessary.
 (c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this                             
Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount 
to retrenchment within the meaning of this schedule.
   8. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant 
consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include a situation where such 
redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed upon.
 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 18A


<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'11'07
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 07.11.2022
 19A
EOG 11 - 0065
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
th day of December