

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2145$2 - 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 14 jeks i÷od - 2019'10'14
No. 2145/2 - MONDAY,  OCTOBER  14, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG   4688 — 517 (10/2019)
L.D. – B 9/2016 (II)
NATIONAL  MEDICINES  REGULATORY  AUTHORITY  ACT,  No.  5  OF  2015
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine under section 142 of the National
Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 read with section 3(k) of the aforesaid Act.
RAJITHA  S ENARATNE,
Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine.
Colombo,
11th October, 2019.
Regulations
1.  These regulations may be cited as the National Medicines (Clinical Trials) Regulations, 2019.
PART I
APPLICATION  FOR  A  LETTER  OF  AUTHORIZATION  TO  CONDUCT  CLINICAL  TRIALS
2. (1) No person shall conduct or cause or permit to be conducted a clinical trial for the following categories of
medicines, medical devices and borderline products except under the authority of a letter of authorization
issued in that behalf by the  National Medicines Regulatory Authority established under section 2 of the National
Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 (in these regulations referred to as the “Authority”)-
(a) unregistered medicines, medical devices or borderline products;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
2A
(b) registered medicines, medical devices or borderline products where the proposed clinical trial is
outside the conditions of such registration and they may include changes to the –
(i) indications and clinical use;
(ii) target patient populations;
(iii) routes of administration; and
(iv) dosage regimens.
(2) A clinical trial for any category of medicine, medical devices and borderline products other than the
categories specified in subsection (1) may be conducted without a clinical trial authorization issued by the
Authority.
(3) The Authority shall have the power to delegate in writing to any officer of the Authority to issue letters of
authorization in respect of clinical trials.
3.  (1) A Principal Investigator with appropriate qualifications or in the case of multi centre studies, the Coordinating
Principal Investigator or National Coordinator may make parallel applications to the Authority and Ethics
Review Committee for a letter of authorization to conduct a clinical trial and an ethics approval respectively.
(2) Every application for the issue of a letter of authorization shall be made in the form as may be determined
by the Authority and every application for ethics approval shall be made in the form as may be determined
by the Ethics Review Committee.
(3)  Every application submitted under subsection (2) to the Authority shall contain complete and accurate
information of all required particulars and be accompanied by a fee specified in Registration and Licensing
of Medicines (fees) Regulations, No. 02 of 2017 as amended, Registration and Licensing of Medical
Devices (fees) Regulations, No. 03 of 2017, Registration and Licensing of Borderline Products (fees)
Regulations, No. 04 of 2017 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2023/30 of June 14, 2017.
(4) An application found to contain false, misleading or incorrect information or particulars shall be rejected.
4. (1) Where a clinical trial is conducted at multiple sites in Sri Lanka, a single application shall be required to be
submitted to the Authority for a letter of authorization.
(2) Every applicant under regulation 3(1) shall submit to the Authority an approval from an Ethics Review
Committee for the issue of a letter of authorization.
(3) The Clinical Trials Evaluation Committee shall be charged with the task of regulatory review of clinical
trials, including assessment of the scientific merit, relevance, risk involved and the expected benefits of
each trial protocol.
(4) The Authority may, having considered the approval of the Ethics Review Committee and the evaluation of
the Clinical Trials Evaluation Committee in relation to the respective clinical trial, issue a letter of
authorization for the conduct of the clinical trial or refuse to issue a letter of authorization for reasons
assigned therefor.
(5) An applicant may withdraw such application at any time prior to the issue of letter of authorization, by
notifying the Authority in writing, without prejudice to his right to submit a fresh application. In such
circumstances, the application and records relating to such clinical trial shall be maintained by the Authority
for a period of two years from the date of withdrawal.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
3A
5. (1) A letter of authorization issued under regulation 4, shall-
(a) be in such form as the Authority may determine;
(b) be subject to such terms and conditions as specified in the letter of authorization as the Authority
may think appropriate;
(c) become operative from such date as shall be specified in the letter of authorization;
(d) unless earlier suspended or cancelled or the letter of authorization is terminated by sponsor prior
to the expiry of the letter of authorization, be in force for a period specified in the letter of
authorization; and
(e) specify the site or sites at which the clinical trial is to be conducted.
    (2) The Authority may from time to time, by notice in writing to the holder of a letter of authorization modify
or remove any condition on the letter of authorization, or attach any new condition to the letter of
authorization with  justification.
6.      (1)   A clinical trial shall be conducted at the site as may be specified in the letter of authorization.
(2) A multi-centre clinical trial may be conducted at more than one site as may be specified in the letter of
authorization.
(3) Any individual member of the clinical trial may be designated as sub-investigator and supervised by the
principal investigator at the clinical trial site to perform clinical trial related procedures.
     7.   (1)    Any Overseas clinical research organization and any sponsors or their subsidiaries, affiliates or branch
offices in Sri Lanka shall prior to being engaged in any clinical trial activity -
(a) enter into an agreement with any recognized Sri Lankan medical research organization, which has
ongoing affiliation with a University established or deemed to be established under the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978 or Ministry of Health for the conduct of clinical research; or
(b) enter into an agreement with a University established or deemed to be established under the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978 or research institution or unit functioning under the Ministry of Health or private
healthcare institutions or medical associations or professional medical bodies registered in Sri Lanka
with the prior written approval of the Authority to conduct clinical trials possessing the required
knowledge, experience and expertise in the field of such research.
  (2) The overseas clinical research organization shall not engage any clinical trial activity or recruit patients into
clinical trials prior to such agreement.
8. (1) An applicant shall have at the time of applying for a letter of authorization for a clinical trial, entered into an
agreement with the sponsor to ensure availability of finances to provide medical care to the study participant
in case of a clinical trial related injury until such time as the study participant is completely recovered from
the effects of such injury.
(2) In the case of clinical trial-related injury to the study participant, the medical treatment and, the method and
manner of compensation to the study participant shall be in compliance with guidelines issued by the Authority.
    9.       All clinical trial participants shall be satisfactorily insured against possible injuries that might arise during the
conduct of the clinical trial and a valid insurance certificate for the duration of the study shall be provided prior
to study initiation.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
4A
10. The Authority may consider expedited review of a clinical trial application as a non-routine procedure for a
therapy with the potential to address an unmet medical need, especially during a global pandemic, a national
epidemic or other similar emergency situation.
11. (1) The period of validity specified in the letter of authorization may be extended upon a request made for
that purpose to the Authority, not less than sixty days prior to the date of expiration of the letter of
authorization previously issued. Every such request shall include the reasons for the extension.
(2) The holder of a letter of authorization shall, prior to such request get extended the period of validity
specified in the approval of the Ethics Review Committee.
(3) The Authority may extend the time period of validity under subsection (1), where-
(a) the holder of a letter of authorization has not violated or done anything in contravention of the
terms and conditions of the letter of authorization issued;
(b) the holder of a letter of authorization has not contravened any provisions of the National
Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any regulations made thereunder or the
clinical trial protocol or the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines or ethical principles or, guidelines
issued under these regulations; or
(c) the continuation of the clinical trial concerned will not have any adverse impact on the study
participant; and
(d) it is necessary to enable the investigator to complete such clinical trial  for reasons to be recorded
by the Authority.
(4) The Authority may verify the legitimacy of the request and if the Authority is satisfied with the legitimacy
of such request, within thirty days of receipt of such request, grant such extension for a further period as
may be determined by Authority to enable the investigator to complete such clinical trial or for reasons
to be recorded by the Authority, refuse to extend the period of such letter of authorization.
12. (1)  A letter of authorization issued under regulation 4 may be suspended by the Authority, where-
(a) it becomes necessary in order to implement any management measures adopted in consequence
of a determination made by the Authority;
(b) the holder of a letter of authorization has been charged for the commission of an offence under
the provisions of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any
regulations made thereunder; or
(c) the holder of a letter of authorization has contravened any provisions of the National Medicines
Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any regulations made thereunder or the clinical trial
protocol or the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines or ethical principles or, guidelines issued
under these regulations, and the severity of such contravention does not warrant a cancellation of
the letter of authorization.
(2) Where a letter of authorization is suspended under paragraph (a) of subsection (1), the holder of a letter
of authorization shall be entitled to a pro rata refund of the fee paid by him for the issue of the letter of
authorization.
13. (1)  A letter of authorization issued under regulation 4 shall be cancelled by the Authority, where -
(a) it is found that the letter of authorization had been obtained by providing false, misleading or
inaccurate information;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
5A
(b) the holder of a letter of authorization has been convicted of an offence under the provisions of the
National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any regulations made thereunder or
the clinical trial protocol or the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines or ethical principles or, guidelines
issued under these regulations;
(c) the holder of a letter of authorization has acted in contravention or in violation of any terms or
conditions subject to which such letter of authorization was issued; or
(d) the continuation of the clinical trial concerned will have adverse impact on the study participant.
(2) Where a letter of authorization issued is suspended or cancelled as the case may be under regulation
12 or this regulation, it shall be the duty of the Authority to forthwith inform the holder of a letter of
authorization of such suspension or cancellation, by a written communication together with reasons
therefor.
(3) Upon the suspension or cancellation under sub-regulation (2), the holder of a letter of authorization
shall discontinue the clinical trial for which the letter of authorization was issued.
14. Upon the suspension or cancellation of a letter of authorization, or discontinuation, the investigator shall
ensure study participants or legally acceptable representatives are informed of such suspension, cancellation
or discontinuation,and reasons therefor and adequate medical care is provided to the study participants.
15.  (1) In the event of a premature discontinuation of a clinical trial, the Authority shall forthwith take steps to
cancel such letter of authorization.
(2) A summary report should be submitted within three months to the Authority and the relevant Ethics
Review Committee. This report shall provide a brief description of the study, number of participants
exposed to the drug, dose and duration of such exposure, details of adverse reactions, if any, and reasons
for discontinuation.
(3) Where it is later proposed to carry on the same clinical trial, a fresh letter of authorization shall be
obtained therefor.
16.  ( 1) Any person aggrieved by a decision refusing the issue or renewal, as the case may be, of a letter of
authorization or the suspension or cancellation of a letter of authorization issued, may, within thirty days
of the date of receipt of the written communication informing such person, of the refusal or the suspension
or cancellation, as the case may be, appeal against such decision to the Appeals Committee appointed
under section 123 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act.
(2) The decision on any appeal submitted under subsection (1) shall be made within sixty days of the receipt
of such appeal and the person making such appeal shall be informed of the decision made on it, forthwith.
(3) Where the Appeals Committee considers it appropriate, it may hold such inquiry as deem necessary in the
circumstances of the case, prior to arriving at any decision on any appeal made to it under subsection (1).
(4) The decision of the Appeals Committee on any appeal made under this section, shall be final.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
6A
PART II
CONDUCT  OF  CLINICAL  TRIALS
17. The applicant to whom a letter of authorization issued or renewed under these regulations (hereinafter referred
to as the “holder of a letter of authorization”), sponsor and investigator shall comply with the guidelines issued
by the Authority in respect of any clinical trial.
18.  The holder of a letter of authorization and the other principal investigators designated in such letter of
authorization shall commence the clinical trial in Sri Lanka upon-
(a) the approval issued by an Ethics Review Committee recognized by the Authority;
(b) issue of letter of authorization to conduct for a clinical trial from the Authority;
(c) the registration of the clinical trial on Sri Lanka Clinical Trial Registry; and
(d) the approval or no-objection certificate from the head of the institution in charge of the clinical trial
site or sites, as the case may be, specified in the letter of authorization.
19. The holder of a letter of authorization or his designated nominee in Sri Lanka shall thereupon apply to the
Authority for an import license and such other permits as may be necessary for the import of investigational
medicinal products and other drugs and devices and material required for the study.
20.  (1) Every clinical trial shall be conducted under the charge and supervision of a principal investigator. All
investigators, including the principal investigator shall possess appropriate qualifications, training, and
experience and shall have access to such investigational and treatment facilities as are relevant to the
clinical trial protocol.
(2) All investigators in a clinical trial shall have formal training in Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and a valid
GCP certificate .
21. All clinical trials, including bioavailability and bioequivalence studies shall be designed, conducted and reported
in accordance with the clinical trial protocol, the principles of ICH Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Guidelines,
and other applicable requirements.
22.  (1) Every holder of a letter of authorization shall, where there is a change of principal investigator at a clinical
trial site during any clinical trial, forthwith inform such fact to the Authority, and furnish particulars of the
new principal investigator to the Authority and the relevant Ethics Review Committee.
(2) Any site involved in a clinical trial may be subjected to the Good Clinical Practice inspection by the
Authority.
23. The holder of a letter of authorization shall where at such times and such manner as the Authority may require
such holder of a letter of authorization to provide any information or report in respect of the clinical trial for
which the letter of authorization has been issued, comply with such requirement.
24. The holder of a letter of authorization shall submit to the Authority a final report of the clinical trial within a
period of six months after completion of such clinical trial or within such a longer period as the Authority may
determine.
25. Where any clinical trial is completed, the records relating to such clinical trial shall be maintained for a period
of ten years after the completion of such clinical trial or such other period as the Authority may 
determine
taking into consideration the additional information submitted to it.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
7A
26. The holder of a letter of authorization or the sponsor, as the case may be, keep adequate clinical records of
each study participant for the duration of the clinical trial and ensure that –
(a) such records are available at all times for inspection by the Authority or any person authorized by the
Authority in that behalf; and
(b) such records are kept at least until there are no pending or contemplated marketing applications of
the investigational medicinal product in Sri Lanka or for two years after the last approval of a marketing
application for the investigational medicinal product in Sri Lanka, which ever expires later.
27. Where the site for a clinical trial is a government healthcare institution or a private hospital and the study
participants are in-patients of such institution or hospital, relevant records shall be maintained in the source
notes of such patient in respect of the clinical trial.
28. (1) The clinical trial protocol may be amended if any amendments become necessary before initiation or
during the conduct of a clinical trial.
  (2)  (a)  Any amendment to a clinical trial protocol which relates only to administrative and logistic
changes or minor amendments and additional safety assessments to which an Ethics Review
Committee has already granted approval shall not require an approval of the Authority.
(b) Any amendment to a clinical trial protocol under paragraph (a) shall be recorded and be available
upon request for inspection at the clinical trial site.
(3)   Any amendment to the clinical trial which relates to changes to the following shall be communicated
as a notification to Authority and relevant Ethics Review Committee -
(a) inclusion of additional investigator sites;
(b) amendments which are made to the investigator’s brochure;
(c) amendments to the informed consent form to be given to a study participant of a specific
clinical trial;
(d) change of principal investigator if he is not the holder of a letter of authorization; or
(e) recruitment of additional study participants.
(4)   ( a) Any amendments, which require prior approval from the Authority and relevant Ethics Review
                                     Committee before implementation of the amendments-
(i) change of principal investigator if he is the holder of a letter of authorization for clinical
trial; and
(ii) substantial amendments to the protocol.
(b) Any substantial amendments to the conduct of the clinical trial may arise from changes to the
protocol or from new information relating to the scientific documents in support of the clinical
trial.
(c) Any amendments to the clinical trial are regarded as “substantial” where they are likely to have
a significant impact on the safety or physical or mental integrity of the participants, or the
scientific value of the clinical trial, or the conduct or management of the clinical trial, or the
quality or safety of any investigational medicinal product used in the clinical trial
(5)  Any amendments made to the clinical trial protocol under this regulation shall be agreed upon and
signed by the persons who are the signatories to such clinical trial protocol.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
8A
PART   III
CONSENT  OF  STUDY  PARTICIPANTS  OF  A  CLINICAL  TRIAL
29. No person shall, by means of any threat or coercion, compel or induce another person to be a study participant
in a clinical trial.
30.  (1)  In all clinical trials, a freely given, informed and written consent shall be obtained from each study
participant.
(2) The principal investigator shall provide to the study participant, information about the study verbally and
using a patient information document in the form as may be determined by the Authority. Such form shall
be in a language that is non-technical and understandable by the study participant, to which the consent of
the study participant shall be obtained in writing.
31. (1) An investigator shall not use a person as a study subject in a clinical trial unless the following requirements
are satisfied-
(a) in the case of a person of or above the age of 18 years, with the consent of that person;
(b) in the case of a person below the age of 18 years, with the assent of that person and consent of -
(i) the parent or guardian (if there is no parent) of that person; and
(ii) if different from sub-paragraph (i), the legal representative of that person.
(2) Where a study participant is not able to give informed consent in the manner as specified in these regulation
(e.g. an unconscious person or a minor or those suffering from severe mental illness or disability), the
assent of such person may be obtained from a manager, guardian, curator or next of kin appointed by
Court in terms of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101).
(3) If the study participant or manager, guardian, curator or next of kin as the case may be is unable to read or
write, an impartial witness shall be present during the entire informed consent process and such witness
shall be required to attest all the documents relating to the informed consent process.
(4) For the purpose of this regulation, “an impartial witness” means a person who is independent of the
clinical trial and not influenced by the persons who are involved in the clinical trial and shall attend the
entire informed consent process where the study participant or manager, guardian, curator or next of kin
as the case may be is unable to read or write. Such witness shall read the informed consent form and any
other relevant information supplied to the study participant and sign and personally date the consent form.
   3 2 .   Prior to the commencement of a clinical trial, the principal investigator or his nominee shall give the study
participant and any person giving consent on behalf of a study participant, a full and reasonable explanation of the
following-
(a) that the clinical trial involves research;
(b) the purpose of the clinical trial;
(c) the treatments to be administered to the study participant in the clinical trial and the probability for
random assignment of each treatment;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
9A
(d) the procedures to be followed in the clinical trial, including all invasive procedures;
(e) the responsibilities of the study participant;
(f) the aspects of the clinical trial which are experimental;
(g) the reasonably foreseeable risks or inconveniences to the study subject and, where applicable, to any
embryo, fetus or nursing infant;
(h) the reasonably expected benefits, including whether there is any intended clinical benefit to the study
participant;
(i) any alternative procedures or treatments available to the study participant, and their potential benefits
and risks;
(j) any compensation and free treatment to the study participant in the event of injury arising from
participation in the clinical trial and compensation in the case of disability or death resulting from such
injury;
(k) any pro-rated payment to the study participant for participating in the clinical trial;
(l) any anticipated expenses to the study participant from participating in the clinical trial;
(m) that the participation of the study participant in the clinical trial is voluntary and that he may refuse to
participate in or may withdraw from the clinical trial at any time without penalty or loss of benefit
which the study participant would otherwise be entitled to;
(n) the persons who will be granted access to the medical records of the study participant and the extent of
such access, including the possibility that the licensing authority may inspect the records;
(o) the extent to which records identifying the study participant will be kept confidential;
(p) that the study participant or his legal representative will be informed in a timely manner of any information
becoming available which may be relevant to the study participant’s willingness to continue participating
in the clinical trial;
(q) the persons to contact for further information relating to the clinical trial and the rights of study
participants and in the event of injury arising from participation in the clinical trial;
(r) any foreseeable circumstances under or reasons for which the participation of the study participant
may be terminated;
(s) the expected duration of participation of the study participant in the clinical trial;
(t) the approximate number of study participants involved in the clinical trial;
(u) sponsorship, if any, with name of sponsor, any interests or conflict of interests declared by the investigator
and contact details of the Authority and the Ethics Review Committee;
(v) any other information which the licensing authority may require to be given; and
(w) any other information which the study participant may request to know.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
10A
33. If any information becomes available which may be relevant to a study participant’s willingness to continue
participating in a clinical trial, the investigator shall, at the earliest feasible opportunity, give to the study
participant or his legal representative a full and reasonable explanation of that information.
34. If a person specified in regulation 31(2) is used as a study participant in a clinical trial and subsequently
becomes capable of giving his own consent, the principal investigator shall, at the earliest feasible opportunity,
give to that person a full and reasonable explanation of the matters referred to in regulation 32 and request the
consent of the study participant to continue to be used as a study participant in the clinical trial.
35.  If a study participant in a clinical trial refuses to give or withdraws consent as required by this regulation, the
investigator shall immediately cease to use that person as a study participant in the clinical trial.
36. During the continuance of a clinical trial, no person, other than the holder of a letter of authorization or a
designated principal investigator or any person assisting him in a clinical trial shall treat a study participant or
administer any test material to such study participant.
37. In an emergency, any doctor or dentist may, in the absence of the holder of a letter of authorization or a
designated principal investigator or any person assisting him in the clinical trial, treat a study participant if it is
in the interest of the study participant.
38. The Authority, or any other person including the investigator, sponsor or any member of the Ethics Review
Committee involved in a clinical trial in whatsoever capacity shall subject to the provisions of the Right to
Information Act, No. 12 of 2016 maintain the confidentiality of the information provided or relating to any
study participant which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his functions under these regulations.
39. All the study participants in a clinical trial shall be assigned with a unique identification number in order to
protect the identity of such study subject which shall be used in lieu of the name of such study participant for
all matters relating to the clinical trial.
PART IV
RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  AN  INVESTIGATOR  OF  A  CLINICAL  TRIAL
40. The investigator shall be responsible for the conduct of the clinical trial in compliance with the provisions of
these regulations, according to the clinical trial protocol and ICH Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, the
guidelines issued by the Authority, from time to time and shall have adequate resources and facilities to conduct
the clinical trial adhering to the standards as specified in the clinical trial protocol and the ICH GCP Guidelines.
41. The investigator shall be familiar with the appropriate use of the investigational medicinal products, as
described in the clinical trial protocol, in the investigator’s brochure, and in other sources of information
provided by the sponsor and shall ensure that all persons assisting him with the clinical trial are adequately
informed about the clinical trial protocol, investigational medicinal products and the duties and functions relating
to such clinical trial.
42. The investigator shall report immediately to the sponsor, all serious adverse events except for those serious
adverse events the protocol or investigator’s brochure identifies as not requiring immediate reporting. Such
reports shall be followed promptly by detailed, written reports.
43. The investigator shall be responsible for giving adequate information to the study participant in respect of the
clinical trial in accordance with the ICH GCP Guidelines.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
11A
44.  The investigator shall submit any information or reports including progress reports to the Authority, the sponsor
or the relevant Ethics Review Committee at such times as may be required by the Authority, the sponsor or the
relevant Ethics Review Committee, as the case may be.
45. (1) The investigator shall ensure that adequate free medical care is provided to the study participants, if there
is any clinical trial related injury until such time as the study participant is completely recovered from the
effects of such injury.
(2) The investigator shall at the time of applying for a letter of authorization for clinical trial under these
regulations, enter into an agreement with the sponsor to ensure the availability of finances and appropriate
insurance cover for this purpose.
46. The principal investigator shall ensure that the clinical trial has received all approvals required under these
regulations and is registered in the Sri Lanka Clinical Trials Registry in addition to registration with any other
clinical trial registry before initiating patient screening and recruitment.
PART V
RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  A  SPONSOR
47. (1) A clinical trial shall be undertaken only if the foreseeable risks and inconvenience have been weighed
against the anticipated benefit for the individual study participant and to society.
(2) The sponsor should ensure provision has been made for insurance or indemnity to cover the liability of
the investigator and the institution in which the clinical trial is carried out against claims arising from the
clinical trial, except for claims that arise from malpractice or negligence.
48. The sponsor is responsible for selecting investigator to conduct the study. Each investigator should be qualified
by training and experience and should have adequate resources to conduct the study.
49. The sponsor of a clinical trial shall be responsible for implementing and maintaining quality assurance systems
to ensure that the clinical trial is conducted and data generated, documented, and reported in compliance with
the requirements of the clinical trial Protocol and ICH GCP guidelines. Any transfer of ownership of the data
shall be reported to the Authority.
50. The sponsor of a clinical trial is required to ensure that the clinical trial, for which the sponsor is responsible
for, has received all approvals required under these regulations, and is registered in the Sri Lanka Clinical Trials
Registry in addition to registration with any other clinical trial registry before initiating patient screening and
recruitment.
51. Every sponsor shall be required to submit a status report on the clinical trial to the Authority through the holder
of a letter of authorization at such intervals as shall be determined by the Authority, and a final report of the
clinical trial within six months after the completion of the clinical trial or such further period as the Authority
may allow.  In the case of premature discontinuation of a clinical trial for which a letter of authorization has been
issued, a summary report shall be submitted to the Authority within three months of such discontinuation.
52. The sponsor shall be responsible for the ongoing safety evaluation of the investigational medicinal products and
shall notify other investigators participating in the clinical trial, the Authority and the relevant Ethics Review
Committee of the findings that could affect adversely the safety of study participants or impact the conduct of
the clinical trial.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
12A
53. The sponsor shall report as soon as possible to the Authority and the relevant Ethics Review Committee about all
serious adverse events occurring at any clinical trial site in Sri Lanka.
54.  (1) The sponsor shall communicate to the Authority, the relevant Ethics Review Committee and the
investigators participating in the clinical trial about any serious unexpected adverse drug reaction as
soon as possible but no later than fifteen calendar days after the sponsor was first aware of such reaction.
(2) Any serious unexpected adverse drug reaction that is fatal or life-threatening shall be reported to the
Authority, relevant Ethics Review Committee and the investigators participating in the clinical trial as
soon as possible but not later than seven calendar days after the sponsor was first aware of such reaction.
55. The sponsor shall ensure that the investigational medicinal products including active comparators and placebo if
applicable, is manufactured in accordance with the principles and guidelines of Good Manufacturing Practices
for medicinal products of the WHO or similar accreditation body.
56. The sponsor shall ensure that the product label on outer packaging of investigational medicinal products or,
where there is no outer packaging, on the immediate packaging, contains standard, internationally accepted
information in English, which shall include the following:-
(a) the reference number or other unique identification mark of each item of such investigational medicinal
products;
(b) a clinical trial reference code allowing identification of the clinical trial, site, investigator and sponsor if
not given elsewhere;
(c) the date of manufacture and the expiry date of the investigational medicinal products in month and year
format and in a manner that avoids any ambiguity;
(d) the storage conditions appropriate for each item of investigational medicinal products as may be indicated
by the manufacturer; and
(e) the words: “For Clinical Trial Use Only” or similar wording to indicate that the investigational medicinal
products will be used only for clinical trials.
57. The sponsor shall not permit the investigator to use any investigational medicinal product in a clinical trial if the
container in which the investigational medicinal product is stored is not marked and labeled with the particulars
specified in regulation 56.
58.   (1) If any code or cipher is used in the labeling of an investigational medicinal product, the key to the code
or cipher shall be made available to any doctor or dentist in an emergency and it shall be made known to
the Authority.
(2) The code or cipher should permit rapid identification of the product in case of a medical emergency, but
shall not permit undetectable breaks of the blinding.
59. The sponsor shall cause all investigational medicinal products be stored in such manner as to be easily
identifiable. Where the investigational medicinal products cannot be identified, such investigational medicinal
products shall not be used and shall be surrendered to the Authority.
60. (1) The sponsor shall ensure that written procedures include instructions that the investigator or institution
shall follow for the handling and storage of any investigational product for the clinical trial and documentation
thereof.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
13A
(2) The procedures shall address adequate and safe receipt, handling, storage, dispensing, retrieval of unused
product from study participant, and return of any unused investigational product to the sponsor or alternative
disposal if authorized by the sponsor and in compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements for
disposal of such products.
61. The sponsor or the holder of a letter of authorization shall keep adequate clinical records of each study participant
for the duration of such clinical trial. Such sponsor or the holder of a letter of authorization shall ensure that
such records are-
(a) available at all times for inspection by the Authority or any person authorized by the Authority in that
behalf, and kept up to date at all times;
(b) kept at least for whichever of the following periods expires later-
(i) until there are no pending or contemplated marketing applications of the investigational
medicinal product in Sri Lanka; and
(ii) two years after the last approval of a marketing application for the investigational
medicinal product in Sri Lanka.
62. Where the letter of authorization for clinical trial is withdrawn or clinical trial is discontinued records shall be
maintained for a period of two years after such withdrawal or two years after the Authority has been informed of
the discontinuation of the clinical trial.
63. Where a clinical trial is completed, records relating to such clinical trial shall be maintained –
(a) for ten years after the completion of the clinical trial; or
(b) such other period as the Authority may direct taking into consideration any additional information that
is submitted to it.
64. The sponsor or the holder of a letter of authorization shall maintain a record containing the names and such
other particulars of every person assisting or participating in a clinical trial.
65.  The sponsor shall ensure that the laboratories used for generating data in respect of clinical trials are complied
with Good Laboratory Practices.
66.  The sponsor shall ensure that the investigator’s Brochure for any clinical trial provides information in a concise
and objective form which enables an investigator to understand the contents thereof and make unbiased
risk-benefit assessment of the appropriateness of the clinical trial. Such contents shall be kept up-to-date.
PART VI
CLINICAL   TRIAL   AGREEMENT
67. There shall be a written agreement between two or more parties involved in a clinical trial which describes all
the matters relating to a clinical trial conducted under these regulations.
 68.  (1) All commercially sponsored research carried out at healthcare institutions in Sri Lanka shall have a fully
executed contract otherwise known as a Clinical Trial Agreement before the commencement of the
clinical trial.
(2)  All relevant parties to such contract shall sign the agreement which shall define the scope of work and
formalizes the understanding between the parties.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
14A
(3) The agreement shall define the scope of work, establish acceptable payment arrangements, and address
important issues such as the right to publish research results, protection of confidential information,
compensation in case of serious clinicaltrial-related injury to study participants and circumstances for
indemnification.
69. All Clinical Trial Agreements for conduct of clinical trials at healthcare institutions shall be signed by –
(a) an approved institutional signatory (e.g. Medical Director) or a no objection certificate shall be
issued by the Head of such institution;
(b) the relevant principal investigator;
(c) the sponsor of the study or person designated by the sponsor (e.g. CRO) where relevant; and
(d)  other parties such as the local coordinator, where relevant.
70. Where the site for a clinical trial is a private hospital, the necessary approvals shall be obtained from the relevant
person or persons, as the case may be, in accordance with the requirements of each such institution, in addition
to obtaining the letter of authorization from the Authority and the approval from the relevant 
Ethics Review
Committee.
71. The holder of a letter of authorization or the principal investigator or any person assisting him in a clinical trial
or any study participant in a clinical trial shall not, directly or indirectly, have any financial interest in the
business of the sponsor of the clinical trial.
PART   VII
GENERAL
72. The International Conference on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP) Guidelines relating to the
conduct of clinical trials including ICH E2A, E3, E7, E8, E9, E11, and E6 (R2)) shall be applicable in addition to
these regulations.
73. The Declaration of Helsinki as a statement of ethical principles for medical research shall be applicable in relation
to the guidance to physicians engaged in clinical research and the responsibilities of researchers.
74.  (1) Every person who intends to conduct a clinical trial shall ensure the following-
(a) before any clinical trial is initiated, foreseeable risks and inconveniences of such clinical trial shall
be weighed against the anticipated benefit for the study participant of such clinical trial and the society
and, be continued only if such anticipated benefits justify the foreseeable risk;
(b) the rights, safety and wellbeing of the study participants of a clinical trial shall be the most important
considerations and shall prevail over the interests of science;
(c) any available clinical and non-clinical information of any investigational medicinal product shall be
adequate to support any proposed clinical trial;
(d) any clinical trial shall be scientifically sound and described in a clear, detailed and complete
clinicaltrial protocol;
(e) a clinical trial shall be conducted in compliance with a clinical trial protocol approved by an Ethics
Review Committee recognized by the Authority for the review of clinical trials;
(f) the medical care given to and any medical decision made on behalf of any study participant shall be
the responsibility of a qualified medical practitioner with the reasonable training and experience;

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
15A
(g) every person involved in conducting a clinical trial shall be qualified in education, training and
experience to perform such person’s task;
(h) freely given and informed consent shall be obtained from every study participant prior to the initiation
of any clinical trial;
(i) all information relating to any clinical trial shall be recorded, handled and deposited in such manner
as it allows its accurate reporting, interpretation and verification;
(j) any record by which the study participant can be identified shall be protected respecting the privacy
and confidentiality of rules in terms of applicable written law;
(k) systems of procedures which assure the quality of each aspect of the clinical trial shall be implemented;
and
(l) possession of valid GCP certification.
(2) The Authority may require any person who conducts a clinical trial to furnish any information or to produce
for inspection any document or record within the possession of such person.
75. The Authority shall recognize Ethics Review Committees for the purpose of approval of clinical trials for any
category of medicine medical devices and borderline products specified in subsection (1) of regulation 2 and the
list of such recognized Ethics Review Committees shall be published in the website of the Authority.
76. The Authority may use relevant clinical trial decisions, reports or information of a regulatory authority of
another country as may be recognized by the Authority.
77. (1) The Authority may make guidelines in relation to the following matters: -
(a) the format and supporting documents for the application for a letter of authorization to conduct a
clinical trial;
(b) the Manual of ICH Good Clinical Practice Guidelines;
(c) the format of the import license;
(d) the report of serious adverse events;
(e) the compensation in the event of a serious clinical trial–related injury;
(f) phases of clinical trials that can be conducted in Sri Lanka.
(2) The Authority may issue instructions from time to time in relation to the conduct of clinical trials.
78. Every sponsor, principal investigator or holder of a letter of authorization shall comply with provisions of the
National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015, regulations made thereunder, guidelines issued
under these regulations and instructions relating to the conduct of clinical trials issued by the National Medicines
Regulatory Authority.
79. The Authority may at any time require any person –
(a) to furnish any information with the person’s knowledge; or
(b) to produce for inspection any document or record within the person’s possession,
that the Authority believes on reasonable grounds to be connected with any suspected contravention of these
regulations or to be otherwise relevant to the administration or enforcement of these regulations.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
16A
80. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations commits an offence and shall on conviction
liable to the punishment as provided in section 131 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5
of 2015.
81. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires –
“adverse drug reaction” means a response to a pharmaceutical product that is noxious and unintended and
which occurs at doses normally used or tested in humans for prophylaxis, diagnosis or therapy of
disease or for the modification of physiological function. In clinical trials injuries caused by
overdosing, abuse or dependence and interactions with any other product should be considered adverse
reactions.
“adverse event” means any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or study  participant administered an
investigational medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this
treatment. An adverse event (AE) can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including
an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the
use of an investigational medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the investigational
medicinal product;
“clinical trial” means any research study that prospectively assigns human participants or groups of humans
to one or more health-related interventions to evaluate the effects on health outcomes. Interventions
may include but are not restricted to substances such as drugs, cells and other biological products,
vaccines, surgical procedures, radiological procedures, or any other item claimed to have therapeutic
benefit;
 “clinical research organization” means a scientific organization to which a sponsor may transfer in writing
some of its duties and functions;
“clinical trial protocol” means a document explaining the background, rationale and the objectives of the
clinical trial and describes its design, methodology and the organization which is involved in such
clinical trial and shall include the statistical considerations, the conditions under which the clinical
trial is to be carried out and managed. The clinical trial protocol shall be dated and signed by the
investigator, the institution involved in such clinical trial and the sponsor;
“drug” includes a group of drugs;
“Ethics Review Committee” means an independent body recognized by the National Medicines Regulatory
Authority consisting of medical professionals and non-medical persons whose responsibility is to
verify whether the safety, integrity and human rights of the clinical trial participants in a given clinical
trial are protected and to consider the general ethics of such clinical trial;
“Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Guidelines” means identified ethical and scientific quality requirements
which are internationally recognized and which must be observed for designing, conducting, recording
and reporting clinical trials that involve the participation of human subjects. Compliance with GCP
provides assurance that the rights, safety, and well-being of the study participants are protected, and
the results of the clinical trials are credible;
“informed consent” means voluntary written assent of a study participant’s willingness to participate in a
particular clinical trial and its documentation. Such consent shall be taken only after information
about the clinical trial, including an explanation of its status as research, its objectives, potential
benefits, risks and inconveniences, alternative treatment that may be available and the rights and
responsibilities of the study subject has been provided to the potential study subject;

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF  SRI  LANKA  14.10.2019
17A
“investigational medicinal product” means any pharmaceutical product or placebo being tested or used as a
reference in a clinical trial;
 “investigator” means a doctor or dentist, as the case may be, involved or engaged in a clinical trial under
the supervision of a principal investigator specified in a letter of authorization as the person responsible
for the conduct and supervision of a clinical trial;
“investigator’s brochure” means A collection of data for the investigator consisting of all the relevant
information on the Investigational medicinal product, including chemical and pharmaceutical data
and toxicological, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data obtained from studies in animals as
well as in humans, and the results of earlier clinical trials. There should be adequate data to justify
the nature, scale and duration of the proposed clinicaltrial and to evaluate the potential safety and
need for special precautions. If new data are generated, the investigator’s brochure must be updated;
“investigational product labeling” means labeling developed specifically for products involved in a clinical
trial;
“legal representative”, in relation to a person who is to be used as a study subject in a clinical trial, means
an individual or judicial or other body authorized under the law to grant consent on behalf of that
person, to the participation of such person in the clinical trial;
“pharmaceutical product” means any substance or combination of substances which has a therapeutic,
prophylactic or diagnostic use, or is intended to modify physiological functions, and is presented in
a dosage form suitable for administration to humans;
“principal investigator or in the case of multi centre studies, the coordinating principal investigator or
national coordinator”  means a doctor or dentist who shall be registered with the Sri Lanka Medical
Council and attached to the Ministry of Health or recognized health care institution or any university
established or deemed to be established under Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 and, specified in a
letter of authorization as the person responsible for the conduct and supervision of a clinical trial;
“serious adverse event” or “serious adverse reaction” means Any untoward medical occurrence that at any
dose results in death is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalisation or prolongation of existing
hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or a congenital anomaly/
birth defect;
“sponsor” means any individual, a company, an institution or an organization responsible for the initiation,
management or financing of a clinical trial. Where an investigator initiates and is fully responsible
for a clinicaltrial, such investigator also acts as the sponsor of such clinical trial;
“study participant” means an individual participating in a clinical trial either as a recipient of the investigational
product which is under investigation or as a control. Such individual may be a healthy person who
volunteers to participate in the clinical trial or a person whose condition is unrelated to the use of
such investigational product or a person (usually a patient) whose condition is relevant to the use of
such investigational product;
“unexpected adverse drug reaction” means an adverse reaction, the nature or severity of which is not consistent
with the applicable investigational product information.
10- 1010
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.