

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2126
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"405 – 2024 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'10'04
No. 2,405 –  FRiday, OctObER 04, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th October, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th October, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2123 - b 082615 - 5,403 (10/2024)
N. B.–   Part iV(a)  of Gazette No. 2404 of 27.09.2024 was not published. 
  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2124
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2125
Rules  and   instructions  for  candidates
, all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candid ates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject
or a part thereof ;
(ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  
commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. 
the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5.
absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. 
another 
candidate’ s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8.
any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. 
it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. 
the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of
the Exami nation Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. 
breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this require ment shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14.
a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. 
impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16.
assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i) Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. 
if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)
in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. 
if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. 
in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper,
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)
candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. 
after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
(vii) the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand mar gin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  
y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. 
disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
(ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) 
at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner . 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator . Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
(xii)
if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an
invigilator , or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2126
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
TELECOmmuNICATIONS 
REGuLATORy COmmISSION  Of  
SRI  LANkA
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio 
Operator’s License by the Telecommunications 
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka - for the 
y ear 2024 (2025)
1. catEGORiES  of amateur Radio Operator’s Licenses : 
(a) amateur Radio Operator’s advanced class 
License,
(b) amateur Radio Operator’s General class License,
(c) amateur Radio Operator’s Novice class License.
the Examination for the issue of amateur Radio 
Operator's License will be held in month of february 2025.
 2. Minimum entry Requirements.– Every candidate 
appearing for the exam should have the following 
minimum basic qualifications :-
(1) Every candidate appearing for the examination 
must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the 
closing date of applications.
N.b: if applicants with special needs appear for 
this examination, it is mandatorily set out in 
the application, and copies of the relevant 
medical certificate shall be submitted along 
with the application.
 3. Medium of examination.– the examination will be 
conducted in English medium only.
4. Scheme of examination :
(a) Advanced Class.– the examination consists of 2 
parts :
Part 1
t wo (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken  
in one sitting :
Paper  i  - advanced  Electrical  t echnology  and 
Radio communications (3 hours) ;(Written 
Paper)  ;
Paper ii - Licensing conditions, operating Practices 
and Procedures (2 hours).
 (McQ Paper)
Part 2 
Practical Morse c ode t est (05 words per minute).
(b) General Class.– t wo  (2)  compulsory  written  
papers  to  be undertaken in one sitting :
Paper i - Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio 
communications (2 hours)  ; (MCQ Paper)
Paper ii  - Licensing conditions, Operating 
Practices and Procedures (1 hour) : (McQ 
Paper)
(c) Novice Class.–  t wo  (2)  compulsory  written  
papers  to  be undertaken at one sitting :
Paper i - basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic 
Theory (02 hours) ; (MCQ Paper)
Paper ii  - Licensing conditions, operating 
Practices and Procedures (1 hour); (MCQ 
Paper)
the   syllabus can be obtained from the t elecommunications 
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka or its official website.
5. Conditions    of    examinations .–    the    following 
conditions  shall  apply  to  all  categories  of  amateur  
Radio License Examinations :
 i. t o  pass  the  examination,  the  candidate  should 
pass all parts of the examination. the minimum 
pass mark percentage is 50% in each paper.
 ii. candidates should pass the part i of the 
examination for advanced class License at the 
same sitting.
 iii. Only those candidates who pass Part 01 of the 
examination will be allowed to appear for Part 
ii (Morse test) in case of advanced class.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2127
6. Fees :
(a) Examination Fees (Fees to be paid to the 
department of Examinations) the examination 
fee is Rs. 600.00. this fee can be paid only to 
any post office/District/Divisional Secretariat in 
the island under the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examinations and 
the receipt issued to the name of the applicant 
shall be affixed on the applicable place in the 
application by its one edge thereof, so as not be 
detached. Money order and Stamps will not be 
accepted, and examination fees are not refunded 
under any circumstances. 
(N.B.– it may be useful to retain a photocopy of 
the receipt.)
(b) Testing Fees.– (Fees to be paid to the 
telecommunications Regulatory commission 
of Sri Lanka). it shall be paid either by cash, 
credit/ debit cards or Visa/ Master cards 
drafted from any bank drawn in the name of the 
telecommunications Regulatory commission of 
Sri Lanka. 
 the entry form shall be sent by registered post 
or delivered by hand. The official receipt shall be 
retained as tRcSL will not consider any claim 
that the form has been overlooked or lost unless 
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
the testing fee is not refundable or cannot be transferred 
to any other examination at a later date. any candidate who 
withdraws his application or cannot appear for the test due 
to any circumstances whatsoever will be required to pay an 
appropriate testing fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of
examination
Fee for
Part 1
Fee for
Part 2
advanced class 280.00 140.00
General class 140.00 -
Novice class 140.00 -
Note.– all prevailing Government levies and charges 
have been included. 
7. All applicants who are in the age boundary specified 
in the notification and who have paid the prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their duly perfected 
applications with the respective receipt on or before the 
specified date will receive admission cards to appear for the  
examination by the commissioner General of Examinations 
on the presumption that only those who possess such 
qualifications as indicated in the Gazette notification have 
applied. immediately after the admission cards are issued 
to the candidates for the examination, a notice thereof will 
be published on the official website of the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, and the candidates will also be 
notified through SMS.
applicants who do not receive their admission cards, 
even after 2 or 3 days of such notification should inquire 
thereof from the institutional Examinations Organization 
branch of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
in the procedure specified in the notice. When inquiring 
so, indicate accurately the Name of Examination that the 
applicant applied for, the Full Name of the applicant, 
National identity card Number, and the address. in case an 
Applicant is outside of Colombo, it will be more effective to 
forward a letter of request along with the above information, 
indicating a fax number to which the copy of the admission 
card could be faxed expressly to the fax number indicated in 
the notice. When inquiring so, it will be adavantageous to 
keep in hand the photocopy of the application from in your 
possession, the copy of the payment receipt received after 
paying the respective examination fee, and the receipt of 
registration received when posting the application to prove 
any particulars asked by the department of Examinations. it 
shall be noted that the issuance of an examination admission 
card to a Candidate does not mean that he or she has qualified 
to appear in the examination.
8. Attestation.–  the candidate's signature must be 
attested by one of the following :
it should have been attested to the applicant's signature 
on the application form and the admission card for the 
examination. an applicant shall be attested his signature 
by the Head of  a Government School, Grama Niladhari 
of the division, Justice of Peace, commissioner of Oaths, 
attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, the incumbent of a 
buddhist temple, chief Monk or the incumbent of a place of 
worship or any clergy holding a recognized position.  
9. Identification of Candidates.– candidates should 
prove his/her identity so that to the satisfaction of the 
Supervisor at the examination hall for each subject they 
appear in the examination hall. For this purpose, one of the 
following documents will be accepted : 
 I. National Identity Card ;
 II. Valid Passport ;
 III. Valid Sri Lanka Driving License ;
 iV . Valid Postal identity card (Only for candidates 
below 16 years)

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2128
also, candidates should arrive without covering their 
faces and ears so as to verify their identity. candidates who 
decline to verify their identities will not be allowed to face 
the structured interview. Further, candidates should remain 
without covering their face and ears so as to be identified by 
the examination authority from the moment of entering the 
examination hall till the end of the examination and exiting.
all candidates required to act in conformity with the 
provisions of the Examinat ion act, No. 25 of 1968. if any 
matters that have not been provided the provisions subject to 
these rules and regulations, will be resolved at the discretion 
of the director General of telecommunications. 
10. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations 
laid down by the commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and releasing its results. if it is 
violated such rules and regulations, he or she will be subject 
to any punishment imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations.
11. Closing Date of Application.– the examination 
will be conducted once every year. the date of examination 
will be notified by the Commissioner of Examinations. 
applications obtained from the telecommunications 
Regulatory commission of Sri Lanka as per the stipulated 
entry form shall be submitted to the following address on or 
before the below closing date :-
director General, tRcSL, No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha, 
colombo 08.
Category of License  Last Date of Entry
advanced class 
General class 24.10.2024
Novice class
Note : (i) the relevant application should be downloaded 
from the following web address.
https:/www.tran.gov.lk/downloads/application
(ii) applicants who applied for the examination as per 
the Gazette dated 19.06.2020 shall pay the examination 
fees to the department of Examinations for the examination 
2024/2025 and also the testing fees are  not payable. Such 
applicants shall re-submit their new applications as per this 
Gazette Notification.
12. if it appears that there is any incongruity or 
inconsistency between the language texts of this notification 
published by Sinhala, tamil and English medium, in such a 
case, it will proceed with the Sinhala language notification.
 director General of telecommunications,
 
telecommunications Regulatory 
commission of Sri Lanka,
No. 276, 
Elvitigala Mawatha, 
colombo 08,
26th September, 2024.
10-30
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION , SCIENCE  AND  
TEChNOLOGy
Admission of Teachers who have passed the 
General Arts Qualifying (External) Examination 
with English as a Subject/ first Examination in the 
bachelor of Arts (External) Degree and the first 
Examination in the bachelor of Science (External) 
Degree to universities Academic year 2023/2024
aPPLicatiONS  are being called from teachers serving 
in Government or Government approved Private Schools 
and who have passed the General arts Qualifying (External) 
Examination with English as a Subject/ First Examination 
in the bachelor of arts (External) degree and the First 
Examination in the bachelor of Science (External) degree 
to be admitted to Universities to follow following courses to 
be commenced in the academic year 2022/2023.
i. Bachelor of Arts Degree (With English as a subject)
ii. bachelor of Science degree (bio Science/ Physical 
Science/ applied Science)
02. Applicants should have fulfilled following qualifications:
 i. (a) to apply for the arts course,
 Passing the General arts Qualifying (External) 
Examination with English as a Subject/ First 
Examination of the bachelor of arts (External) 
degree in year 2019 or a later year.
(b) t o apply for the bio Science, Physical Science 
and applied Science course, Passing the 
First Examination of the bachelor of Science 
(External) degree held in year 2019 or a later 
year.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2129
 ii. Should have completed 05-year period of service as 
a teacher as at closing date of applications and have 
been confirmed in service.
 iii. Should not have registered in a teachers' training 
college, National college of Education, University 
or in the National institute of Education to follow a 
course at the time of selection.
 iV . in case of bio Science, Physical Science or an applied 
Science course in a university, the applicants should 
have passed the subjects defined as a pre-requisite 
by the university at G.c.E. (advanced Level) or 
at the first examination of the Bachelor of Science 
(External) Degree to be qualified for the respective 
course.
 V . Should be a full-time teacher entitled to study leave 
with pay.
03. applications of Government teachers should be attested 
by the Principal, Zonal director of Education and the 
Provincial director of Education while applications of 
the teachers in Government approved Private Schools 
should be attested by the Principal / Manager of the 
school.
04. in applications forwarded by the teachers of 
Government approved Private Schools, the respective 
Principal/ Manager of  the School should state whether 
the concerned teacher can/ cannot be approved of study 
leave.
05. Each application should be prepared in two (02) 
copies as per the specimen given and forwarded to 
reach "Director of Education, human Resource 
Development branch, ministry of Education, 
Science and Technology, Isurupaya, battaramulla" 
on or before 25.10.2024 under registered cover. 
"Applications to be admitted to Sri Lankan 
universities - 2023/2024 (for Teachers)" should be 
mentioned on top left-hand corner of the envelope.
06. applicants will be selected on the basis of total marks 
obtained at the General arts Qualifying (External) 
Examination with English as a Subject/ First 
Examination in the bachelor of arts (External) degree 
or the First Examination in the bachelor of Science 
(External) degree, marks obtained for the respective 
subject and the marks obtained at the interview to be 
conducted by the University Grants commission.
07. Entitlement to study leave with pay will be inquired at 
the interview.
08. this Ministry will not be liable to award graduate 
appointments upon completion of the degree.
 application will be published in all three languages 
(Sinhala/ tamil/ English) under Special Notices of the 
official website of the Ministry of Education (www.
moe.gov.lk).
09. if there is any inconsistency or discrepancy between the 
language texts of this announcement issued in Sinhala, 
tamil and English, in such an instance the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
J. M. Thilaka Jayasundara,
Secretary.
Ministry of Education, Science and technology.
10-44

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.10.2024
2130
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNka.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2024
 OCTObER  04.10.2024 Friday — 20.09.2024 Friday 12 noon
  11.10.2024 Friday –– 27.09.2024 Friday 12 noon
  18.10.2024 Friday –– 04.10.2024 Friday 12 noon
  25.10.2024 Friday –– 11.10.2024 Friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER  01.11.2024 Friday — 18.10.2024 Friday 12 noon
  08.11.2024 Friday –– 25.10.2024 Friday 12 noon
  14.11.2024 thursday –– 01.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  22.11.2024 Friday –– 08.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  29.11.2024 Friday –– 14.11.2024 thursday 12 noon
 DECEmbER  06.12.2024 Friday — 22.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  13.12.2024 Friday –– 29.11.2024 Friday 12 noon
  20.12.2024 Friday –– 06.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
  27.12.2024 Friday –– 13.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
    
  
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2024.