

<!-- page 1 -->

311 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
311
¡â¤ 1, 493 _ 2007 ¡ïÀòà¨à ˜Ì 12 Éæ¾ł ´ò˝ÌàÀ”ł¾à…å _ 2007 .04.12
No. 1,492 – THURSDAY ,  APRIL 12,  2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 314
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 324
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th April, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 05th April, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
312
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

313 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B4–B 079479

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
314
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA VOLUNTEER  AIR  FORCE
Airmen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka V olunteer Air Force for Airmen
in the trades given below.
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications required :
Electrician Works
Plant Operator
Air Conditioner and Refrigeration
Mechanic
Engine fitter
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
at not more than two sittings (additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in
Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages, Mathematics  and
Science (Mathematics II, Science II if an applicant of
year 1999/2000). A Credit pass for mathematics/science
is essential.
(b) Other Requirement.—Candidates must fulfil the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka V olunteer
Air Force :-
(1) Nationality.– Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2) Age.– Not less that 18 years and not more than 30 years as
at 30th June, 2007.
(3) Height.–  5 feet 5 inches and above.
(4) Weight.– BMI = Weight (kg)<25
                                       Height (m)
2
(5) Chest.– 32" (Minimum)
(6) Vision Colour Standard.– CP2
(7) Visual Acuity.– 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(8) Civil Status.– married or unmarried. Unmarried Airmen are
not allowed to marry until the completion of a period of one
year from the date of enlistment.
2. Candidates who do not posses the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 (a) and (b)
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height and
vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and vision is below
the stndard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no
exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in
the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :
(a) Airmen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other
Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from the
date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the
selected trades accordingly. They will be required to
perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and
night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of
Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagements :
Selected candidates will be enlisted in the rank of
Aircraftsman (Third Class) in the V olunteer Air Force and
shall be required to serve for a continuous period of five
years. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for
further service on completion of five years of service.
6. Official Language Requirements.—The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay Rate — The scale of consolidated pay applicable to
Airmen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman.- Rs. 166,560 – 7x1,440-10x1,800 –
Rs. 194,640 per annum.
Leading Aircraftman.- Rs. 170,880 – 4x1,440 – 11x1,800
– Rs.196,440 per annum
Corporal.- Rs. 175,200 – 1x1,440 – 13x1,800 –
Rs. 200,040 Per annum
Sergeant.- Rs. 178,440 – 10x1,800 – 2x 2,520 – 1x3,480
– Rs. 204,960 Per annum
Flight Sergeant.- Rs. 182,040 – 8x1,800 2,x 2,520 –
3x 3,480 – Rs. 211,920 Per annum
Warrant Officer.- Rs. 189,240 – 4x1,800 – 2 x 2,520 –
9x3,480 – Rs. 232,800 Per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the
consolidated pay scale applicable to airmen. Increments
in promotions will be based in consideration to the service
period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be
placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living  allowances.-  Rs. 1,750 per month,
(2) Hardlying Allowance.- Rs. 600 per month,
(3) Enhanced Allowance.- Rs. 1,900 per month for those
serving in operational areas.

<!-- page 5 -->

315 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
(4) Enhanced allowance.- Rs. 2,400 per month for those
serving in Jaffna Peninsula (Rs. 80 will be paid for each
working day)
(5) Ration Allowance.- Rs. 5,649.75 per month for living
out Airmen.
(Free messing for living - in Airmen).
(6) Accommodation.- Free for personnel living-in.
(7) Travelling.- Three sets of Holiday Railway warrants
per year (For Airmen, Wife and Children). One set of
railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of
bus fare for living-in Airmen.
(8) Disturbance Allowance.- When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(9) Good Conduct Badge Pay.- Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(10) Uniform upkeep allowances.- Rs. 170 per month.
(11) Medical Facilities.- Provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen and their families.
(12) Free travel from residence to  Place of work in S.L.T.B.
buses for living-out Airmen within a radius of 30 miles
(48 km).
(13) Following Rent Allowance are payable to married Airmen
not in occupation of Government married quarters
Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 3,300 per month.
(14) Other Allowances.- (Separation and Overseas, etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(15) Pensions/Gratuties are payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time.
08.  Instructions to Applicants.— (a) Applications should be
submitted in applicants own handwriting in terms of the form
specified below, all cages of the application should be filled with
much details as possible. Applications should be sent by registered
post addressed to “Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force,
Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than 12.00 noon on
27th April, 2007. The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked “Application for V olunteer Airmen” on the top left corner.
Application received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after
closing date and time and not in accordance with the requirements of
this notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
(b)  Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of the Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil
Establishments and should bear a certificate to the effect that the
candidate will be released if selected.
(c)  Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or when called
upon to do so : —
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted.) ;
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications
required ;
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and/or experience
(if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be an
added advantage ;
(4) Two recent certificates of character, one of these should
be from the principal of the last school attended and the
other from the responsible person who has the know of
the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed) ;
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadeting,
etc.
 (d)  Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when required to do so will not be considered.
(e)  No original documents or copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f)  The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals
of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
09. Interviews will be held in Sri Lanka Air Force Station Ekala.
Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required to
appear for an interveiw at their own expense before an Air Force
Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed individually of
the date, time and place.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
without the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to  merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving her testimonial. Any form of canvassing, or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of
such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect,
will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after
the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
WDRMJ G
OONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
316
APPLICATION FOR VOLUNTEER AIRMEN IN
THE SRI LANKA VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
 01.  Full Name : ————.
(According to National Identity Card))
02. National Identity Card Number  : ————.
03. Applied Trade : ————.
04. Postal Address: ————.
05. Permanent Address : ————.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address  : ————.
07. District  : ————.
08. Electorate : ————.
09. GS Division : ————.
10. Telephone Number  : ————.
11. Date of Birth : ————.
12. Married or Single  : ————.
13. Height : Feet  : ————, Inches  : ————.
14. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination :
 Year Index No. Subjects Grading
Passed
   15.   G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
 Year Index No. Subjects Grading
Passed
16. (a) Any special qualifications for the post : ————.
(Eg. : Technical training and experience etc.)
17. Details of special achievements in sports : ————.
18. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations : ————.
19. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police, give
details : ————.
20. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If So, give details : ————.
21. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
22. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are, to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in resepect of those candidates who are
selected as Airmen in the Sri Lanka Volunteer Air Force published in
the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date : ————.
04-267
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies (Regular/Volunteer Force)
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular and V olunteer Air Force
for Male and Female Commissioned Officers in the following
branches :
(a) Technical Signal  Branch (Regular- Male)
(b) Administrative Regiment Branch (Regular – Male)
(c) Air Field Construction Branch – (Regular- Male)
(d) Medical Branch (Regular/ V olunteer – Male/Female)
(e) Dental Branch (Regular/Volunteer — Male/ Female)
(f) Administrative Medical Branch – (Regular/ Volunteer – Male)
(g) Administrative Agriculture Branch – (Regular – Male)
(h) Administrative Educational Branch – (V olunteer–Male)

<!-- page 7 -->

317 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
2. Applications are invited from candidates who possess the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Signal Branch :–
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Officer
(Flight Lieutenant/Flying Officer/Pilot Officer) :
BSc. Degree in Electronics and Telecommunication
Engineering or NDT in Electronics and Telecommunication
Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
(b )Administrative Regiment Branch (Band Master) :
(1) Military Band (Pilot Officer) :
(a) A minimum of six passes at the GCE (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credits in
Music and English language and an ordinary pass
in Sinahal/Tamil language in one sitting ; and
(b) Having qualifications up to Grade V or above of
the Royal College/Trinity College of Music
London or equivalent.
(c) Ablility to train and conduct Military Band and
Orchestra will be an added qualification.
(d) Ability to compose music in western and oriental
traditions as well as have a sound knowledge on
playing western and oriental instruments will be
considered as a special qualification.
(2) Dance Troupe (Pilot Officer) :
(a) A minimum of six passes at the GCE (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credits in
Music and English language and an ordinary pass
in Sinahal/Tamil language in one sitting ; and
(b) Fine Arts Degree from the Institute of Aesthetic
Education (Dance) in Sri Lanka or passed final
level (Dance) in National Dance and Music
Examination of Sri Lanka.
(c ) Ability to train on traditional and foreign dances
will be an added qualification.
(d) Ability to design new dances in local and foreign
dance styles will  be considered as a special
qualification.
(3) Oriental Orchestra/Western Band (Pilot Officer) :
(a) A minimum of six passes at the GCE (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credits in
Music and English language and an ordinary pass
in Sinahal/Tamil language in one sitting ; and
(b) Fine Arts Degree from the Institute of Aesthetic
Education (Music) in Sri Lanka or passed final
level (Music) in National Dance and Music
Examination of Sri Lanka or “Visharadha” Part II
Level from “Bathkande” music Academy in India.
(c ) Ability to train and conduct oriental and western
Bands will be and added qualification.
(d) Ability to compose music in both oriental and
Western traditions as well as have a sound
knowledge on playing western and oriential
instruments will be considered as a special
qualification.
(c) Air Field Construction Branch :-
Civil Engineering Officer (Flight Lieutenant/Flying Officer/
Pilot Officer) :
BSc/NDT or equivalent qualifications in Civil Engineering.
Preference will be given for experience in Quantity Surveying.
(d) Medical Branch :–
Medical Officer (Flight Lieutenant) :
Full professional registration with the Sri Lanka Medical
Council.
(e) Dental Branch :–
Dental Officer (Flight Lieutenant) :
BDS or equivalent with full registration with the Sri Lanka
Medical Council.
(f) Administrative Medical Branch :–
Psychologist (Flight Lieutenant) :
BSc in Psychology.
(g) Administrative Agriculture Branch :–
Agriculture Officer (Flying Officer)
BSc in Agriculture.
(h) Administrative Education Branch :–
English Language Instructor (Flight Lieutenant/Flying
Officer/Pilot Officer) :
Bachelor Degree (BA/BSc) and Diploma in Education or
Master Degree (MA/MSc) with English Language as a subject
or Master Degree (MA/MSc) in English medium with one
year teacher experience as an English Language Teacher in all
categories ; or
Three passes at GCE A/L Examination in any subject with
successful completion of two (02) years Teacher Training
Course as an English Language Teacher at the “Government

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
318
Teachers Training College of Education” and three (03) years
experience as an English Language Teacher after successful
completion of the training course ; or
A degree BA/BSc with English Language as a subject or a
degree B. Ed (Bachelor of Education) in English or a degree
BA/BSc in English medium and one (01) year experience as
an English Language Teacher  ; or
Three passes at GCE A/L Examination in any subject with
successful completion of three (03) years Teacher Training
Course as an English Language Teacher at the “National
College of Education” and one (01) year experience as an
English Language Teacher after successful completion of the
training course.
3. Other Requirements :–
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Height : Male 5 5 and above. (Not applicable for
Medical and Dental Officers)
(c ) Chest : Male 32  (Minimum)
(d) Vision Colour : CP2
(e) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6  (with or
without spectacles)
(f) Age :
(1) Technical Signal Branch.– Not more than 28 years as
at 30th June, 2007.
(2) Administrative Regiment Branch.– Not more than
35 years as at 30th June, 2007.
(3) Air Field Construction Branch.– Not more than
35 years as at 30th June, 2007.
(4) Medical Branch.– Not more than 35 years as at 30th
June, 2007.
(5) Dental Branch.– Not more than 35 years as at 30th
June, 2007.
(6) Administrative Medical Branch.– Not more than
35 years as at 30th June, 2007.
(7) Administrative Agriculture Branch.– Not more than
35 years as at 30th June, 2007.
(8) Administrative Education Branch.– Not more than
35 years as at 30th June, 2007.
4. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the
service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be
considered, even though he may not have the requisite age or height,
provided he/she possesses the requisite academic and professional
qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Selected candidates will be granted a Regular or V olunteer
Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force in the Pilot Officer, Flying
Officer or Flight Lieutenant rank as applicable in keeping with their
qualifications and experience.
8. Official Language Requirements.– Selected Candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made here
after for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri
Lanka and in Particular for implementing the provisions in the Official
Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such
places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at any time
during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities as being
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his
control. he will be liable to have his commission withdrawn and/or be
subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the Sri Lanka
Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. The conditions of service for an Officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
the Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from
time to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every
Officer shall hold his appointment during the President’s pleasure.”.
However an Officer has no right to resign his Commission unilaterally,
but under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act may be
allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any Bond/
Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of
training and subsequent courses will not supercede the provisions of
Section 11 of the Air Force Act stated above. Retirement from the
Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
11. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
12. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
13. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter  if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married Officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para. 15 (d)(15).
14. All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
15. (a) Pay fapplicable for Commissioned Officers other than
Medical and Dental Officers :—
Pilot Officer.– Rs. 198,960 p. a.
Flying Officer.– Rs. 275,220-30x7,740 = Rs. 507,420 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant.– Rs. 321,660–24x7,740 = Rs. 507,420 p. a.
Squadron Leader.– Rs. 352,620-20x7,740 = 507,420/- p. a.
Wing Commander.– Rs. 362,100–15x9,480 = Rs. 504,300 p. a.
Group Captain.– Rs. 441,060–17x12,600=Rs. 642,660 p.a.

<!-- page 9 -->

319 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children),
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month,
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items,
(13) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable),
(14) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius,
(15) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to 4,250 per month,
(16) Service Allowance - Rs. 300 , Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Applicable to service Medical; /Dental
Officers in consideration to the Number of complete
Years of Service) :
(17) Additional service allowance - Rs. 1500 per month
(applicable to service Medical/Dental Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions & Gratuities Code 1981 as amended from time to time. All
Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed
Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per Widows and
Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants’ own hand
writing in terms of the form specified  below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much
details as possible. Applications should be addressed to
“Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala,
Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later than 12.00 noon on
04th May, 2007 under registered cover. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked “Application
for Commission in the …… Branch”. Applications received
after the closing date and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered post
mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if
selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of : –
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of Character from at least two responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the
applicant ;
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadeting
etc. ;
  (b) Pay applicable for Medical and Dental Officers :–
(1) Medical Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920-2x7,740 = Rs. 329,400
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8x7,800 = Rs. 399,540
Grade I - Rs. 412,140–15x12,600 = Rs. 601,140
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 –12x15,720 = Rs. 697,320
  (2) Dental Officers:
Grade II - Rs. 306,180-4x7,740-8x7,800=Rs. 399,540
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 16x12,600 = Rs. 601,140
(c ) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental Officers :
(1) Pensionable Allowance :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non-Pensionable Allowance :
Preliminary Grade  - Rs. 2,125 per month
Grade  II  - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 5,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments :
Preliminary Grade  - Rs. 105 per hour
Grade II -    Rs. 140 per hour
Grade I  -  Rs. 150 per hour
(5) Service Allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are to be
calculated separately as applicable.
(d) Service Allowances :
(1) Cost of living  allowance Rs. 1,750 per month,
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service,
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month,
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400 per month  for those
serving in operational areas,
(5) Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month for those serving
in the Jaffna Peninsula,
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month,
(7) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out),
(8) Ration allowance Rs. 6,213.64 per month (if permitted
to live out),
(9) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month),

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
320
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced only if
and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after
the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates
who fulfil the above conditions only. Candidates so selected
from the preliminary interview  will be required to undergo
a Medical test as may be prescribed by the Commander of
the Air Force. The final selection will then be made after an
interview of those selected candidates, by a Selection Board
appointed by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing
of the place, time and date of such interviews. No travelling
or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned  for an interview
he/she is to produce his/he/her National Identity Card issued
by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before an
Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or
attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will
result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who  are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
WDRMJ G
OONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sir Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
Application for Commission in the Sri Lanka Regular/
Volunteer Air Force in the ……… Branch
1. Nationality :__________.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration and if latter, quote number and date of
certificate).
2. Full Name  (As per the National Identity Card) :__________.
3. National Identity Card Number :__________.
4. Permanent Address :__________.
5. Postal Address :__________.
6. Date of Birth :__________.
7. Height :–––––––’. –––––––”.
8. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :__________.
9. District :__________.
10. Electorate :__________.
11. G.S. Division :__________.
12. Telephone Number :__________.
13. Married or Single :__________.
14. Particulars of School and /or University and Qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advance Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
15. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University
(If applicable):
Name & Address Nature of     Period of service
of Employer Employment From To
16. Particulars of Parents :
  Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present Address
Father
Mother
17. Any  special qualification for  the post :–––––––.
18. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give deatils of
teams and competitions participated with   dates / years etc. and
standards / Levels achieved) :–––––––.
19. Other  achievements of note at School/University or with
Outside Organizations (Give details with dates/years etc.) :–––––––.
20. Any previous service in the Armed Forces or Volunteer Force
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––.
21. Have you  applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air  Force or
any of the Armed Services  or Polices if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

321 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
22. Have  you  being   convicted or bound over by a Civil   or
Military Court, if so  give  details :–––––––.
23. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board /Corporation   (including the Central Bank
National  Bank, Universities, Joint  Stock Companies controlled by
the  Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :–––.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the  Applicant :
I declare on  my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.  I have
read and understood the procedure which  will be adopted and the
rules which will apply  in respect of those candidates who are selected
for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air  Force published in the Gazette
of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
04-268
SRI LANKA REGULAR AIR FORCE
Airwomen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Airwomen
in the trades given below :
1. (a) Trade & Educational Qualifications required :
Nursing Assistants
Dental Assistants
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
at not more than two sittings (additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in
English Language and Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil
Language, Mathematics, Science (Mathematics II,
Science II if an applicant of year 1999/2000) and one
other subject. Having three passes at the (GCE (A/L)
Examination in Bio Science subjects in one sitting will
be a qualification for advance training.
Mess Stewards :
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
at not more than two sittings (additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in
Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages. (If Mathematics/
Science are included in the six subjects Mathematics II,
Science II for an applicant of year 1999/2000).
Gunners :
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
at not more than two sittings (additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in
Sinhala/Tamil Language (If  Mathematics/Science are
included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II
for an applicant of year 1999/2000).
(b) Other Requirements.— Candidates must fulfil the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular
Air Force :
(1) Nationality.— Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2) Age.— Not less than 18 years on and not more than 22
years as at 30th June, 2007.
(3) Height.—  5 feet 4 inches and above.
(4) Weight.— BMI = 
W eight (kg)<25
        Height (m)2
(5) Vision Colour Standard .— CP2
(6) Visual Acuity .— 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(7) Civil Status .—Candidates must be unmarried. (Airwomen
are not allowed to marry until the completion of a period of
two years from the date of enlistment or until one year after
the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course or which
ever is later).
2. Candidates who do not posses the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 (a) and (b)
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height and
vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and vision are
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who
have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :
(a) Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other
Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from the date
of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the
selected trades accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even
under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or
Abroad.
5. Terms of Engagements :
Selected candidates will be enlisted in the rank of Aircraft woman
(Second and Third Class) in the Regular Air Force and shall be

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
322
required to serve for 12 years in which five years will have to be
series. continuously and for further 07 years in the Regular Air force
(Reserve) when call to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable
Airwomen to extend for further service on completion of five years
of service.
6. Official Language Requirements.— The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
07.
(a) Pay and Allowances :–
(a) Pay rate .— The scale of consolidated pay applicable
to Airwomen shall be as follows :
Aircraft-woman - Rs. 166,560 – 7x1,440-10x1,800 =
Rs. 194,640 per annum.
Leading Aircraftwoman-Rs. 170,880 – 4x1,440 - 11x1,800
= Rs. 196,440 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 175,200 – 1x1,440 – 13x1,800 =
Rs. 200,040 Per annum
Sergeant-Rs. 178,440 – 10x1,800 – 2x 2,520 – 1x3,480 =
Rs. 204,960 Per annum
Flight Sergeant-Rs. 182,040 – 8x1,800 2,x 2,520 -
3x 3,480 = Rs. 211,920 Per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 189,240 – 4x1,800 – 2 x 2,520 –
9x3,480= Rs. 232,800 Per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the
consolidated pay scale applicable to airwomen.
Increments in promotions will be based in consideration
to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency
and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living  allowance.— Rs. 1,750 per month
(2) Hardlying Allowance.— Rs. 600 per month
(3) Enhanced Allowance.— Rs. 1,900 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(4) Enhanced allowance.— Rs. 2,400 per month for those
serving in the Jaffna Peninsula (Rs. 80 will be paid for
each working day)
(5) Incentive Allowance.— After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to 850 per month)
(6) Ration Allowance.— Rs. 5,649.75 per month for living
out Airwomen.
(Free messing for living - in Airwomen).
(7) Accommodation.— Free for personnel living-in.
(8) Travelling.—Three sets of Holiday Railway warrants
per year (For Airwomen, Husband and Children). One
set of railway warrants per month or the reimbursement
of bus fare for living-in Airwomen.
(9) Disturbance Allowance.—When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(10) Qualification Pay.—For personnel who have qualified in
special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month)
(11) Good Conduct Badge Pay.— Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(12) Uniform upkeep allowance.— Rs. 170 per month.
(13) Re-engagement Pay.— fersumed are entitled Rs. 300 per
month during the period of re-engagement.
(14) Medical facilities.— provided through Air force expense
for Airwomen and their families.
(15) Free travel from residence to place of work in S.L.T.B.
buses for living-out Airwomen within a radius of
30 miles (48 km).
(16) Following Rent Allowances are payable to married
Airwomen not in occupation of Government married
quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(17) Instructional Pay.—(Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(18) Other Allowances.— (Separation and Overseas, etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(19) Pensions/Gratuties are payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time. All Air women are contributors to the
Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
08.  Instructions to Applicants :- (a) Applications should be
submitted in applicants own handwriting in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be filled with
much details as possible. Applications should be sent by  registered
post addressed to “Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force,
Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than 12.00 noon on
27th April, 2007. The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked “Application for Airwomen” on the top left corner.
Application received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda, after
closing date and Time and not in accordance with the requirements of
this notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
(b)  Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of the Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil
Establishments and should bear a certificate to the effect that candidate
will be released, if selected.
(c)  Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or when called
upon to do so : —
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted.) ;

<!-- page 13 -->

323 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications
required ;
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience
(if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be an
added advantage ;
(4) Two recent certificates of character . One of these should
be from the principal of the last school attended and the
other from the responsible person who has the know of
the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer, (if employed) ;
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and Cadeting,
etc.
 (d)  Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when required to do so will not be considered.
(e)  No original documents or copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f)  The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals
of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
09. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force Station Ekala.
Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required to
appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force
Recruiting Board. Such candidiates will be informed individually of
the date, time and place.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
she is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
with out the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per Trade will be selected
according to  merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing, or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of
such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect,
will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after
the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
WDRMJ Goonetileke,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICA TION  FOR  AIRWOMEN  IN
THE  SRI LANKA  AIR FORCE
01. Full Name : ————.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number  : ————.
03. Applied Trade : ————.
04. Postal Address: ————.
05. Permanent Address : ————.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address  : ————.
07. District  : ————.
08. Electorate : ————.
09. GS Division : ————.
10. Telephone Number  : ————.
11. Date of Birth : ————.
12. Married or Single  : ————.
13. Height : —
Feet  : ————, Inches  : ————.
14. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination :
 Year Index No. Subjects Grading
Passed
15. G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
 Year Index No. Subjects Grading
Passed
16. Any special qualifications for the post : ————.
(eg. : Technical training and experience etc.)
17. Details of special achievements in sports : ————.
18. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations : ————.
19. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police, give
details : ————.
20. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If So, give details : ————.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
324
21. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
22. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are, to the best of my knowledge and belief  are correct.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in resepct of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date : ————.
04-269
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
AUSTRALIAN DEVELOPMENT SCHOLARSHIPS (ADS) ACADEMIC YEAR 2008 INTAKE
From 1st January 2008 to 31st December 2009
The Government of Australia has invited nominations from eligible Government officials in Sri Lanka for the Australian Development
Scholarships (ADS) - Academic Year 2008 intake. The details of the program are enclosed in the attachments A and B. the eligibility criteria
for the applicants are as follows :
Be a citizen of Sri Lanka
Not have applied for permanent residency to Australia or New Zealand
Be less that 45 years on 1st January of the year of application (2008)
Have a first degree from a Sri Lankan or recognized foreign University (preference will be given to applicants with a class
pass and postgraduate qualifications)
Have at least 2 years work experience in the Sri Lanka public sector in a field relevant to the proposed course of study.
Applicants must also be confirmed in their jobs.
Not already be following a course of study in a university abroad
Not have previously received any Sri Lankan or overseas government funded scholarship for long term academic studies in
a foreign country.
All applications for the academic year 2008 intake will have to be received by the External Resources Department before 13th July
2007. Please be obliged to send not more than two nominations considering the gender equality,  along with the following documents. Late
applications will not be entertained under any circumstances.
Certified copies of the educational certificates
A  service certificate
Valid evidence of a minimum overall IELTS (Academic Moudle) score of 6.0 with no band less than 6.0. The Certificate
should be valid at the date of the starting of the Academic Intake 2008. Please be noted that the TOFEL results are not be
considered.
Certified copy of the Birth Certificate
Expression of Interest (This has to be prepared according to the guidelines in the attachment B)
The ERD Form No. 2 “Essential Information  of the Nominee” must be completed and sent along with the above documents for
further processing by ERD. Kindly be noted that we are compelled to reject the nominations if the ERD form is not property completed and
submitted.
Dammika Ranasinghe,
Deputy Director - Technical Assistance Division,
For Director General.

<!-- page 15 -->

325 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
Essential Information of the Nominee
1. 1.1 Title of Training Programme:———.
1.2 Duration in Weeks :———.
1.3 ERD Code :———.
2. 2.1 Ministry :———.
2.2 Agency :———.
3. 3.1 Name of Nominee :———.
(Please Enter Family Name First and Underline Family Name Only)
3.2 Sex :———.
3.2 National Identify Card Number  :———.
3.3 Passport Number :———.
3.4 Present Designation :———.
Management or Technical Grade
3.5 Designation Group
Senior Level Middle Level Junior Level
Technician,
Other (Specify)
of the Nominee in
Supportive
the Agency
and Allied
Groups
(Indicate the appropriate box)
4. 4.1 Official  Address :———.
4.2 Phone/Fax :———.
4.3 e mail :———.
5. Telephone/Fax for Urgent Contact :———.
6. 6.1 Date of Birth :———. Date : Month : Y ear :
Years :
6.2 Age at the Commencement of the Programme (To the Closest Year) :———.
7. 7.1 Years of Service to the Government in the Nominee’s Career Years :
7.2 Nominee’s Years of Service in the Present Agency Years :
8. Educational Qualifications (Please Use Abbreviations to Describe)
8.1
Academic Qualifications of the
Sp. Degree General Degree (3yr) Other First Degrees and Equivalentfull
Nominee
(4yr) Professional Qualifications
8.2 Performance at the first Degree Ordinary 2nd Class 2nd Class First Class Not Relevent
Pass Lower  Upper
(Please Check in case of Special
and General Degrees only)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
326
8.3 Institute and year :———.
9. Local Long Term Training Successfully Completed and Full Professional Qualifications Achieved by Nominee :
9.1 Masters Degree Indicate the Number Only
9.2 Post Graduate Diploma Indicate the Number Only
9.3 Medium Term Training of more than Indicate the Number Only
three month Duration
9.4 Full Professional Qaulifications Indicate the Number Only
10. Local Short Term Training Received by the Nominee :
Total number of local training received
11. Previous Foreign Training Received by the Nominee :
11.1 Foreign Training Each less than one week duration received in the Past  Years
Total number of training
11.2 Foreign Training Each Greater than one week and Less than 12 weeks  (three months)  duration received in the Past 3
years
Total number of training
11.3. Foreign Training Each Greater than 12 weeks and Less than 32 weeks duration received in the Past 3 years
Total number of training
11.4 Foreign Training Each Greater than or equal to 32 weeks Duration in Nominee’s Career (Training Funded by the
Government of Sri Lanka or Funded by a Scholarship offered to the Government of Sri Lanka)
Nominee has received at least one training opportunity of duration greater than 32 weeks
12. Nominee’s Declaration
I, the undersigned, certify that the details provided in this correctly describe myself, my qualifications and my experience.
12.1 Date : 12.2 Nominee’s Signature..............................................
13. Certification of the Heas of Department
Relevancy of this Training Vital for Directly Connected to Helpful in For Other
Programme to Nominee’ s Work Present workRelated to Present Work Future Work Promotions (Specify)
Present Work
(Please Check only one Box)
Main Function of the Agency in the Field of Training Execution Supervisory T raining/Teaching
(Please Check only one Box)
I certify the accuracy of the information given above.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department and Stamp
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

327 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
Attachment A
Key  Features and Selection Procedures : Australian Development Scholarships (ADS) 2008 Intake
Number of Awards
Subject to annual agreement between the Governments of Sri Lanka and Australia and Australian budget outcome, the actual
number of new ADS for the 2008 academic year will be advised shortly.
In line with AusAID’s policy on gender equity at least half the scholarships allocated to Sri Lanka are for women.
Category :
Public Sector category only.
Training Location :
In-Australia only :
Scholarship length :
Scholarships are offered for a maximum period  of 2 years (4 semesters)
Fields of Study :
Health
HIV Aids, malaria and Tuberculosis- prevention, treatment, research Pandemics viz avian influenza, surveillance, quarantine
and outbreak and infection control
Maternal and reproduction health, nutrition
Capacity building of health sector
(ADS Scholarships are not available for medical doctors intending to get board certification as consultants)
Education :
Education policy, management and reform
teacher training, production and supply of curriculum materials
Austratian Agency for International Development
Australian High Commission
21 Gregory’s Road, Colombo 7, Sri Lanka. Telephone No. : 94 11 246 3200 Fax No. : 94 11 2696468
Governance :
Economics
Public policy and management
Development administration
International affairs/International relations (Ministry of Foreign Affairs Staff only)
Natural Resource Management :
Waste management
Land resources management
community forestry
Agriculture
Rural development
Other :
Peace building and conflict resolution
Gender and development

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
328
Types of course not available under ADS :
Training in areas related to nuclear technology and flying aircraft legal workshops
Level of Study :
Public sector category awards will be for long term postgraduate  study only eg. Graduate Diploma and Masters. A second
Masters degree in the same discipline will be allowed only if the first degree in coursework and the second research. No scholarships will be
granted for PhD studies.
Selection of Courses :
Applicants are encouraged to communicate with the institution/s of their choice to ensure that their current qualifications,
inculding, IELTS scores match the direct entry requirements for the preferred course/s.
Selection Process :
The Department of External Resources will invite submissions from Sri Lankan Government Departments/Ministers and select
a pool af 18 to 21 applicants who have the minimum qualifications stipulated for ADS. ADS Application Forms will be sent only to the
short listed applicants.
A Joint Selection Panel (JSP) consisting of 2 officers from DER and two Officers from the AusAID Office in Colombo (e. g. the
AusAID Representative, the  Scholarships Officer or other nominated person) will select the priority and  reserve applicants.
Scholarship Eligibility :
An Applicant Must :
*  be a Citizen of Sri Lanka
* Not have applied for Permanent Residency to Australia or New Zealand
* be less than 45 years on 1st January of the year of application
* have a first degree from a Sri Lankan or recognised foreign university
(Preference will be given to applicants with a class pass and postgraduate qualifications)
* Have at least 2 years work experience in the Sri Lanka public sector in a field relevant to the proposed course of study.
Applicants must also be confirmed in their jobs.
* not already be following a course of study in a university abroad
* not have previously received any Sri Lankan or overseas government  funded scholarship for long term academic studies in
a foreign country.
Selection Criteria :
* Academic Merit - the emphasis will be on academic excellence
* English language - applicants must have a minimum IELTS (academic module) overall score of 6.0 with no band less than
6.0
* Gender equity - a reasonably even distribution of male and female recipients
* Applicant must demonstrate potential for contribution to the development of the Sri Lankan public sector in their
Statement of Purpose.
English Proficiency Requirement :
Evidence of a minimum overall IELTS (academic module) must be provided before the closing date for the submission of
Expressions of Interest (i.e. initial application). Applications without such documentation will not be considered for selection.
Please note that most Australian universities require and IELTS overall score of 6.5 for direct entry into their postgraduate
courses. A student  with an IELTS overall score of 6.0 will have a very limited choice when it comes to selection of courses/institution.
Every  course has an IELTS entry requirement. Short listed applicants will only be able to choose a course compatible with their
current IELTS socre. The ADS scholarship does not inculde English language bridging.

<!-- page 19 -->

329 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
Statement of Purpose :
You should write no more than 500 words in total
1. Explain why you are applying for an ADS
2. Explain your experience, interest and the relevance of any courses or subjects you have taken in your selected area of study
and what work you expect to be doing on return after training.
3. Demonstrate your awareness of the development issues related to Sri Lanka in the area of study you have selected.
4. Explain how the course of study and the skills you will acquire will contribute to national development and poverty
reduction initiatives in Sri Lanka
(a) What do you think are the personal qualities and attributes required to study overseas?
(b) What challenges will you face as an international student in Australia if you are successful with this application.
Attachment B
GENERAL INFORMA TION
Australian Government
AusAID
Expression of Interest
(Initial Application)
for an
Australian
Development Scholarship
(ADS)
Administered by the
Australian Agency for International Development (Aus AID)
Australian Development Scholarships
Each year, the Australian Government grants Australian Development Scholarships (ADS) to Sri Lankan Public Sector
employees for Postgraduate study in Australia. By providing people with knowledge and skills to promote development in
their home country, the ADS scheme aims to reduce poverty and contribute to the development  of Sri Lanka’s human
resources. These scholarships play an important role in fostering and sustaining friendship and cooperation between Australia
and Sri Lanka.
ADS are awarded on a competitive basis to individuals with excellent educational qualifications and aim to provide equal
numbers of scholarships to men and women. The Australian Government will provide successful applicants’ full course costs.
a living allowance, travel to and from Australia and other ancillary expenses. The Australian Agency for International
Development (AusAID) manages this program in partnership with the Government of Sri Lanka. There are currently more
than 25 Sri Lankan ADS students currently studying at the Masters level.
Key Features and Selection Procedures (Attachement A)
Responsibilities of scholarship holders
The ADS scheme is primarily for the benefit of the student’s home  country. High standards of work and conduct are expected
of scholars during and after their time in Australia.
The scholarship offered is for the appropriate field and level of study and the student  cannot change enrolment without prior
agreement of AusAID and the Goverment of Sri Lanka (this process may take at least 8 to 12 weeks).
B5–B 079479

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
330
Successful applicants will need to study full time, achieve satisfactory academic progress and meet all course requirements set
out by the education institution. They must agree to the disclosure of information regarding their progress and  not engage in
employment outside vacation periods without prior agreement  from the AusAID Liaison Officer at the institution and beyond
the restrictions applying to their visa. Failure to comply with these terms may result in the scholarship being withdrawn by
the Australian Government.
Scholars must return home at the end of their studies to promote development and pass on the knowledge and skills they have
gained. They will be eligible to re-enter Australia for studies only after a lapse of 2 years commencing from the date of
completion of their studies in Australia.
Scholars must agree to advise the AusAID Liaison Officer at the institution immediately, should they marry a person who is
not a citizen of the same country as the scholar. An application for permanent residence of Australia during the period of
scholarship may put the scholar in debt to the Commonwealth  of Australia to the total value of the scholarship and an
application for permanent  residence within two years of scholarship completion will not be supported by AusAID.
Scholarship conditions :
* Award holders must pass at least 80% of their first year units. No extensions for academic failure will be granted where
students  have failed 20% or more in their first year.
* Suspensions may be approved for a total period of up to 12 months in a scholarship. Award holders are required to return
to their home country during periods of suspension. Stipends are not payable during  suspension, including suspension
due to illness.
* Award holders are required to maintain Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) for their families while in Australia to
satisfy requirements for the issue of a visa for entry into Australia.
Study options :
The fields of study are determined by the development needs of Sri Lanka. Priority is given to fields of study that have the
greatest potential to reduce poverty and promote sustainable  development.
ADS Information Kit
As a result of the new policy for the managment of Australian Development Scholarships (ADS) that will come into effect in
January 2007, ADS scholars will benefit from a wider choice of institutions to study. All publicly  funded Australian
universities providing a full  campus experience, who have signed a contract with AusAID will be eligible to receive ADS
students from Semester 1, 2007. A full list of these institutions will shortly be available on AusAID’s website
www . ausaid.gov.au.
Given the broad Institution eligibility to ADS, the ADS Information Kit which provided details on institutions and courses,
will no longer be produced. Students will be required to research courses through existing  materials, the internet, publications,
and visits by Institutions, etc. Institutions may choose to provide information direct to students or posts. The AusAID
website will continue to provide generic information about the ADS terms and conditions and specific country program
profiles.
Scholarship benefits :
* Full tuition fees paid
* Return economy air fare at the start and end of the scholarship.
* A reunion air fare at the completion of each successful year of study, except the final year. (Only available to students
whose immediate family i. e. spouse or dependant child do not accompany them.)
* Fieldwork return air fare (Only available to eligible research students).
* Establishment allowance of A $ 5,000 (not taxed).
Yearly stipend of A $ 19,231 (not taxed) in 2006, CIP indexed annually each July.
* Tutorial assistance of up to A $ 1,000 per year.
* Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) for awardee for the duration of the award. No additional helath benefits
provided. As with other  international students. ADS students may purchase additional “gap” cover.
* Provision of an AusAID Student Visa.

<!-- page 21 -->

331 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
Only one rate of stipend :
Significant changes have also been made to the ADS Family entry policy. Accompanied stipend rates will be replaced by a flat
yearly stipend for all ADS students. Indexed annually as well as a generous  establishment allowance and overseas student
health cover for the duration of their award.
Successful  scholars must satisfy the Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs’ (DIMA) that they have adequate
money in hand to cover 12 months living costs. Schooling  and medical insurance for family members.
The decision about the timing of travel to Australia by a scholer’s family is made by individual institutions. The responsibility
of obtaining  visas for families lies with the student. It is important to note that the start of the academic year results in peak
work flows for visa processing at the Australian High Commission in Colombo and visas for family entry are likely to be
delayed.
Establishment allowance :
A student will receive an establishment  allowance of A $ 5,000. This is more than double the allowance in 2005. The increased
amount would be  adequate to cover medical insurance cost for family members, general service fees, contents insurance, excess
baggage charges as well as rent deposit, text books, food and other basic settling in costs.
Introduction of a reunion fare :
Eligibility is determined at the Colombo Post at the time of the award offer and is limited to those students who not have all
their immediate family (Spouse or dependent child, i. e. under 18 years) accompanying them to Australia. The student would
be entitled to a reunion fare after each successful full year of study, except the final year for eg one reunion fare in a two year
degree, two fares in three years etc.
Extensions :
Extensions of up to one semester may only be approved in the second or subsequent years of study. No time extensions for
academic failure will be granted in the first year.
* Extension requests in second and subsequent years may be approved and funded by AusAID for a period of one semester
for legitimate academic reasons (not health or family issues.) Only one extension per student  is permitted.
* Students may suspend for health or family reasons for a total period of one year during the length of the scholarship.
During suspension, students would be  required to return to their home country at their own expense.
Upgrades for exceptional students :
In certain circumstances, upgrades for exceptional students will be permissible. At this  stage, each upgrade request will be
considered individually in consultation with the Colombo Post and approved centrally in Aus AID.
Expression of Interest and Required Documentation :
Applicants will need to submit an Expression of Interest giving the  following information.
1. Family and given names
2. Sex
3. Date of birth
4. Marital Status
5. Number of dependents, spouse and children only
6. Country of Citizenship
7. Work and home addresses, contact details eg. phone/fax/email
8. Full name of proposed study program eg : Graduate diploma of Environmental Studies, Master of Development Studies.
Significant changes to proposed course of study are not encouraged once students are short listed.
9. Specific course focus eg. economics, commerce
10. Stipulate if the program is by coursework or research

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
332
11. Academic qualifications (copies of supporting  documents must be attached) – For first degree (clearly specify type of
class obtained, course duration, whether special or general.) For other qualifications (clearly specify course duration,
whether qualification obtained in country or overseas).
12. Current studies.
13. Employment record.
Required supporting  documentation :
14. Academic qualifications, evidence of Engilsh language proficiency, work  experience. Supporting documents  received
after the closing date of 21 July, 2007 will not be accepted.
15. If an applicant wishes to do a postgraduate course of study, which includes more than 50% research, a research outline of
the  proposed research project (up to 200 words) is required. The research outline should have a title, objectives,
relationship of this research to previous work in this field by applicant or others, significance and possible application of
the proposed research to applicant’s home  country. Where possible proposed research method and plan including
estimated schedule for completion and each stop in research and thesis writing should also be included.
16. Statement of Purpose.
04-188
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the  National Diploma in Technology Course,
2007/2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 03 year Fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University  premises at
Moratuwa until it is  moved to a new  premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
1. General.- The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year  of Industrial Training
and  it is conducted in the  English medium. The  course is offered in
the following fields of study:
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology,
(ii)Civil  Engineering Technology,
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology,
(iv) Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering Technology,
(v) Marine Engineering Technology,
(vi) Mechanical  Engineering Technology,
(vii)Nautical Studies,
(viii)Polymer Technology,
(ix) Textile & Clothing  Technology.
2. Eligibility
2.1 Age:
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on the
closing date of the applications.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age  on the closing
date of the  applications, will be given preferene for
admission to the  Nautical Studies and Marine
Engineering Technology fields of studies.
(c) Those who  are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open
University of Sri Lanka)  or Higher Educational
Institute or any other  recognized Higher
Educational Institute/ Institutions are not  eligible
to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications.– Applicants should have
obtained passes in three (03) of the following  subjects–
(i) Physics ;
(ii)Chemistry ;
(iii)Combined Mathematics ;
(iv) Advanced Mathematics.
at one and the same sitting  of a G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
conducted by the  Commissioner General of  Examinations,
Sri Lanka in 2004 or 2005 or 2006.
3. Selection Criteria:
3.1 Admission to the Course:
The selection of students for  admission will be based on
the performance at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude  test  to be conducted  by the  Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those  who  pass the aptiude test, selections will be
done  in the merit order of  G. C. E. (A.L) results i.e.– in
the  order of z-scores. In the  selection,  40%  merit and
60% district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test  marks  together with the applicant’s order
of preference for the  field of study as indicated in the  field
preference will be  considered in the allocation of the  field
of study.

<!-- page 23 -->

333 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
4. Application Procedure:
4.1 Application form :
Applications and details  can be collected
(a) in person from, ITUM Office at the premises of
University of Moratuwa, Katubedda, Moratuwa;
(b) By sending  a self addressed stamped envelope
9" x 4" (Please paste stamps in the value of
Rs. 30) to Assistant Registrar, ITUM, University
of  Moratuwa, Katubedda, Moratuwa. Please
write “Application  form  to NDT Course” on
top left hand  corner of your envelope.
(c) Download application from  ITUM website
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
Forward your application with  certified copies of–
* G. C. E. (A. L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating  G. C. E. (A.L) Z- Score,
* School Leaving Cerificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* National Identity Card,
* Affidavit in support of any  change in names appearing in
different  documents/certificates.
(i) Applications should be forwarded  under
Registered Post  marked “NDT Admission
2007/2008” on the  top left hand corner of the
envelope  and  addressed to the  Director, Institute
of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(ii)Application should  reach the Director, Institute
of Technology University of Moratuwa  on or
before the closing date  of applications.
(iii)Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The  preference must  be indicated if
candidate applies to both sets of fields.
4.2 Application Fee:
A receipt of payment in favour of “Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa, A/C No. 308280 of Bank  of
Ceylon Katubedda Branch” to the value of Rs. 200 (Rupees
Two Hundred) for  each set of fields  of study (Rs. 400 if
applying  for both sets of fields), obtained only from any
branch  of the Bank of Ceylon should  accompany each
application. This  application fee is non-refundable.
4.3 Closing Date:
The closing date  of applications is 8th June, 2007.
5. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G. C. E. (A. L.) performance in each district will be called  for an
aptitude test  that will be conducted by the  Institute of Technology,
University of  Moratuwa.
6. Registration:
(i) Candidates selected  for  admission will be required  to
produce the originals of the  following certificates on the
date  of registration :
* G. C. E (A/L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E (A/L) Z - Score,
* School Leaving  Certificate,
* Birth Certificate.
Very Important
(ii) A candidate once  registered for  the National Diploma
in Technology  Course will not be eligible  for
admission  to any other  course in this  University or
in any  other  University in Sri Lanka  (except Open
University of Sri Lanka)  or in any other Higher
Educational Institute during the tenture of the  course.
(iii) A candidate who  has registered in this  University or
any other University in Sri Lanka  (except Open
University of Sri Lanka)  or in any other Higher
Educational Institute will not be eligible for
registration.
Director,
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
29th March, 2007
04-265
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR SAMURDHI
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS I/II - 2007
EFFICIENCY Bar Examination for Samurdhi Development Officers
in Class I and II  attached to the Sri Lanka Samurdhi Authority will
be held in the main cities of all the districts of the island during the
month of June by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Candidates who have selected a city that has not been selected by
a sufficient number of Candidates will be directed to the next nearest
city.
02. Examination procedure and syllabus.– This Efficiency Bar
Examination will be comprised of the following papers :
1. Establishment and Accounting Process - 2 Hours ;
2. Knowledge on the Samurdhi Movement - 2 Hours.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
334
Note:-
A. Candidates may attempt all the subjects at one
sitting or several sittings.
B. Each paper carries an aggregate of 100 marks. To
pass the examination, Officers in the class  I should
earn a minimum of 40% of marks for each paper,
whereas the officers in Class II should earn only a
minimum of 35% of marks. Officers who earn
40% or more for each paper of this examination
while being in Class II, will be exempted from the
requirement of having passed in this Efficiency
Bar Examination when and if they are promoted
to Class I.
C. The paper one above consists of two parts.
Candidates are required to answer both parts
separately.
03. Syllabus :
A. Knowledge on Establishments and Accounting process :
This paper consists of two parts. The first part contains
multiple choice questions and all the questions must be
answered. (60 marks) The second part consists of 4
structured essay type questions out of which two may be
chosen to answer. (40 marks).
Duration of the paper is two hours. The paper will be
based on the following topics form the Establishments
Code and the Financial Regulations :
(i) Conditions Governing Appointments,
(ii)Transfers and Promotions of the Employees and
Procedures of Retirement,
(iii) Leave,
(iv) Salary Increments,
(v) Efficiency Bar Examinations,
(vi) Payment of Travelling Expenses.
(vii)Duty Lists,
(viii) Official Diaries,
(ix)Office Management,
(x) Publish Relationships and Maas Media,
(xi)Trade Unions  and Political Rights,
(xii)Payment procedure,
(xiii)
(xiv)Transfer of  Financial Power,
(xv) T ender Procedure,
(xvi)Entries Relating to Transactions,
(xvii)Control of Inventories,
(xviii)Survey of Stocks,
(xix)Maintenance of Bank Accounts,
(xx) Auditing Procedure,
(xxi) Taking Actions with Regard to Damages,
(xxii) Vitization of Public Money,
(xxiii)Protection of Public Property,
(xxiv)Matters Related to Contracts,
(xxv) Employers Trust Fund (EPF),
(xxvi)Employers Provident Fund (ETF).
(B) Knowledge Pertaining to Samurdhi Movement :
This paper consists of two parts. The first part contains
multiple choice short questions and all questions must be
answered (60 Marks). The second part consist of Several
structured essay type questions including Questions on a
subject related case study. Candidates may answer two
questions of their choice (40 marks).
Duration of paper is two (2) hours :
1. Alleviation of Poverty,
2. The new Direction of the Samurdhi Movement :
* Vision,
* Mission,
* Objectives,
* Plans for Alleviation of Poverty of Different
Levels,
* Family Development Plan,
* Evaluation of Performance,
* Depoliticization.
3. Establishment of Community Organizations under
the Samurdhi movement :
* Samurdhi Force,
* Small Groups,
* Samurdhi Societies,
* Samurdhi Societies Bank Society
* Samurdhi Federation.
4. Process of Social Mobilization,
5. Participatory Development Community Projects
and Rural Development,
6. Banking Finance,
7. Various Loan Programme,
8. Social Security Programme,
9. Social Development Programmes,
10. Income Generating Programmes.
* Agricultural,
* Animal Products and Fisheries,
* Industries,
* Sales,
11. Preparation of a Simple Project Report,
12. Monitoring of Progress,
13. Subsidy Programmes,
14. Experience gained in Development Process in Sri
Lanka,
15. Principles of Planning.

<!-- page 25 -->

335 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
4. The above test will be conducted only in Sinhala and Tamil
mediums. The application for the said examination should be prepared
in accordance with the specimen given at the end of this notice using
both sides of an A4 size paper only. Further, the application form
should be in the language medium in which the applicant has chosen
to sit examination.
5. The application form is to be sent by registered post through
the head of the relevant department (if attached to a Divisional or
District Secretariat, through the District Secretary Concerned) to
reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before the May 10th
2007. The name of the examination should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelop in which the application is enclosed. Any
application form received after the deadline date will not be
entertained. The application form may be prepared either in the
Official Language or in the Language medium in which the candidate
was recruited to the Goverment Service. It is advisable to retain a
photocopy of the application form and the receipt obtained on
payment of the examination fees.
6. Those who do not receive the Admission Card at least 7 days
before the date of examination, should immediately communicate
with the commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla (Telegraph Address, “Exams,
Battaramulla”) giving to following information :
(i) Name of the Examination
(ii)Full Name of the Applicant
(iii)Address of the Applicant
(iv)Name of the post offices at which the application was
posted
(v) Date and the number of registration of the application
7. Identification : Candidates are to prove their identity at the
Center of Examination any one of following documents will be
accepted as proof of identity :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of persons.
2. A valid Passport
8. Examination fees for this examination will be as follows :
(A) No Charges for the first attempt
(B) Second or later attempt (Whole exam) Rs. 250.00
(C) Second or later attempt (One Subject) Rs. 125.00
The Examination Fee could be credited to the Revenue Head No.
4,000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
at any Divisional/District Secretariat. The receipt issued on such
payment should be duly affixed in the relevant cage of the application
form.
9. This examination will be held by the commissioner General of
Examinations whose rules, and regulations in respect of the said
examination have to be abided by the candidates.
10. Officers who are Qualified to sit this examination and who
have been issued with an Admission Card by the Commission or
General of Examinations, should be granted necessary Duty Leave
for sitting the examination by the Heads of the Departments/Institutes
they are attached to.
11. Any matters that have not been incorporated in the regulations
herein shall be dealt with, at the discretion of the Director General of
Samurdhi Authority - Sri Lanka.
Mr. Ravindra Hewavitharana,
Director General.
Samurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka,
04th Floor,
Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.
Districts Names and Numbers
District No.
1. Colombo 01
2. Gampaha 02
3. Kalutara 03
4. Matale 04
5. Kandy 05
6. Nuwara-Eliya 06
7. Galle 07
8. Matara 08
9. Hambantota 09
10. Jaffna 10
11. Mannar 11
12. Mullativu 12
13. V avuniya 13
14. Trincomalee 14
15. Batticalloa 15
16. Ampara 16
17. Puttalam 17
18. Kurunegala 18
19. Anuradhapura 19
20. Polonnaruwa 20
21. Badulla 21
22. Monaragla 22
23. Kegalle 23
24. Ratnapura 24
25. Kilinochchi 25

<!-- page 26 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .04.12
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2007
336
Index Number 
(For Office use only)
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  SAMURDHI  DEVELOPMENT  OFFICERS
1/11 2007
Class to which you belong I Town T own No.
(tick the relevant box) II
(Chose your preferred town
and town number from the
list given in this notification
Medium in which prefer
 taking this examination
Sinhala-2, Tamil-3
(Enter the relevant number in the Box)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials :———.
(In Block capitals, Ex. SILV A A. B.)
1.2 Names denoted by initials :———.
(In Block capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Address  to  which  the  admission  Card  should  be  posted
(Inblock Capitals) :
2.1 Office Address :———.
2.2 Permanent Address :———.
3.0
3.1 Gender :
Female - 1 Male - 0
Enter the relevant
number in the cage)
3.2 Marital Status :
Married - 1 Single - 2
(Enter the relevant
number in the Cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Date Month Y ear
4.0 Subjects taken at this Examination
Establishment and accounting procedures - 1
Knowledge pertaining - 2
Both Subjects - 3
(Enter the relevant
number in the cage
5.0 If this is not your first attempt, amount pain as the Examination
Fee. Rs For one Subject Rs. 125/-, for the Whole exam Rs. 250/-
Affix the receipt payment here
06. Post held at present and the class .................................. I do
hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me above are
true and correct to the best of my Knowledge and that I am
Entitled to sit for this examination in the language medium I
have selected.
——————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
Commissioner General of Examinations :
I do hereby declare that the candidate Whose particulars are
furnished he in has fulfilled necessary Qualifications to sit for
this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit for the
examination in the language medium chosen by him/her.
——————,
Signature
Pls. place the office stamp bearing the
designation).
Date :———.
04-286
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA