

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2876
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2872
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"100 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'11'30
No. 2,100 –  FRiday ,  NoVEmbER 30, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st december, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th december, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2869-b 81472- 5,403 (11/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2870
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2871
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2872
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable (Special Task force) 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
direct recruitment for the Post of Recruit Police constable - 
Special task Force in the Sri Lanka Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance with 
the specimen form given below should be sent to director/
Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st Floor, Sri 
Sambuddathwa Jayanthi mawatha, colombo 06. the 
application should be sent by the registered post to the 
above address to reach on or before 31.01.2019 and the post 
applied for should be marked in the top left hand corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application. delayed applications 
will not be entertained and no applications will be issued by 
the Sri Lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 3,54,480 - 7 x 3,600 - 27 x 4,440 -                      
Rs. 4,99,560.00
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public administration circular 3-2016 Schedule ii 
and the above mentioned salary scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular                             
No. 2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above 
salary scale, they will be paid following allowances :  
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) as per the P a.cir.03/2016, it is granted 5,712.00
  40% of the allowance for the 
  relevant rank
 (c) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (d) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
 (e) 1/4 of monthly salary 3,570.00
 (f) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 10,500.00
  (350x30 areas where special 
incentives allowance are paid)
 (h) combined allo wance  8,400.00
  (350x24 areas where special 
incentives allowance are not paid)
in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  Free transport facilities,
 (b)  Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.),
 (c)  all uniforms will be provided free of charge,
 (d)  Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports,
 (e)  travelling expenses are provided to undertake 
duties and money will be granted as rewards for 
outstanding and arduous duties. 
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the StF 
consequent to the basic training. 
04. Basic Qualifications Required : 
 (a) Age Limit.– the age should be between 18 and 
25 years as at closing date of the applications 
as per the Gazette Notification. However Police 
Officers currently serving in the Sri Lanka 
Police as Police constable drivers are eligible 
to apply up to the age of 27 at the closing date of 
applications. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications : 
  Should have passed 06 subjects including 
mathematics and medium Language in not 
more than two attempts at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. Applicants who are qualified 
within two attempts should have passed at least 
05 subjects (including both mathematics and 
Medium Language or at least one, at the first 
attempt). 
Note 01.– the subjects passed at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination is determined as per the 
subject classification of Department 
of Examination i.e.- Science subject 
combination of subject numbers 41 & 44 
is considered as one subject and maths 
subject combination of subject numbers 42 
& 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.– if the written test of technical subject at the 
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination is failed, it is 
considered as the technical subject is failed 
even though the practical test of the same 
subject is passed. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2873
Note 03.–  Since optional tamil, English and Sinhala 
subjects are not included in the stream 
of G. c. E. (o/L) syllabus, passes in any 
of these subjects will not be accounted 
as a passed subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * chest 30 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of inspector General of 
Police provided that they have outstanding 
skills in sports and have achieved excellent 
performance in sports at national level or 
have earned reputati on for Sri Lanka by 
participating in an international competition. 
 (d) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less than 
6/12 in each eye. if the vision is 6/6 in one eye and 
6/18 in the other eye, will be also accepted. colour 
vision should be normal. applicants wearing 
spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible for 
being selected for the service. 
 (e) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considered as 
unsuitable). only this condition will not apply 
for the Police Officers presently serving in the 
Sri Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass in the basic Qualification test conducted by 
the Sri Lanka Police. only those who have passed this test 
can participate in the physical fitness test, testing on self-
confidence and testing on starting energy and responding. 
* Physical Fitness Test :
 Exercise Times  Time (minutes)
1. 1000 meters  04
2. chip ups 05 01
3. Push ups 15 01
4. Situps 15 01
5. Scott thrush 12 01
* Only those who are successful in the physical fitness 
test will be summoned for the final interview, and those who 
score 40% or more in the final interview will be summoned 
for the written test. 
the written test consists of two question papers. 
 an essay paper not less than 500 words - 45 minutes.
 General knowledge and intelligence test paper - 1 
hour.  
     
06. Medical examination.– applicant must pass the 
medical test before obtaining his appointment. medical test 
is an only one part of the recruitment process. Selection will 
be made among the applicants who pass the medical test 
as per the number of existing vacancies and the position 
in the list pertaining to the merits and skill. those who fail 
the medical test will be rejected. medical examination will 
be done at once. this exam will be conducted under the 
supervision of Chief Medical Officer, Police Hospital and 
he will submit the report according to Health form 169.
07. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be recruited;
 (b) Providing false information or conceal 
information will make the applicant ineligible. 
if the false information is elicited after the 
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed 
from the service. 
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the ministry 
of Public Administration and Home Affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Public 
Service with effect from 01.07.2007 should acquire 
proficiency in the other official language within 
a period of 05 years in addition to the official 
language through which they enter the service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specific proficiency in the second 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2874
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  
09. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. you are liable to contribute to the Widows’/
Widowers' and orphans’ Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to a three years recruit  
period ;
 (b) The recruited officers will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy;
 (c) they will be subjected to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishment code V olume i and 
ii, Financial Regulations, Police orders, and any 
other orders that may be issued by the inspector 
General of Police or by the Government from time 
to time;
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed Examinations 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Police. those who fail 
to pass the prescribed examinations or found to be 
unfit for Police duties will be liable to be removed 
from the Police Service ;
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to the 
confirmation in the said rank without the permission 
of the Inspector General of Police. However in 
terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and          
i. G.’s circular No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and 
circular (amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible 
to marry under special circumstances and with the 
permission of inspector General of Police ;
 (f) applicants appointed after the training should 
serve as recruit period of 03 years in the Sri Lanka 
Police and if they wish to resign from the service 
before their probation is over, they should sign a 
consent agreement to the effect that they are willing 
to pay any amount which was incurred on the 
training and uniforms etc., together with any other 
prescribed payments at the time of tendering their 
resignations. director of Police training college 
will decide it having calculated dues from the 
applicants. the acceptance of resignation should 
conform to the Section 4, chapter V of V olume i of 
the Establishments code, 1985 ;
 (g) Recruit Police constables should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police code of conduct immediate after 
commencing their training in terms of the i. G. 
P.’s circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
 (h) Recruit Police constables should subscribe the 
oath of allegiance for a prestigious public service, 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the i.G.P.’s circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
 (i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed 
in the post will have opportunities for promotions 
in terms of the approved schemes of promotions of 
the Sri Lanka Police.  
11. (a) attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(11a) of the Part i of this Gazette ;
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. applications should accompany copies of the 
following documents (originals documents must not be 
forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of  educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of sports with outstanding 
records or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) A photostat copy of the certificates of service 
experience (if available) ;
 (vi) a photostat copy of the identity card.
13. (a) applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the 
Heads of their respective Institutions and they 
must be accompanied with a certificate stating 
that the officer can be released if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in 
their own hand writing on a paper of 11" x 8" in 
size and post them together with the copies of 
certificates, to the address given in paragraph two 
and under no circumstances should applications 
be handed over personally to any officer.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2875
14. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview by Sri Lanka Police. 
 
Pujith jayasundara, 
 inspector General of Police. 
For office use
SRi  LaNka  PoLicE 
Post of recruit Police constable (sPecial task force) 
sPecimen aPPlication form
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth belongs 
:––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
  (e) mailing address :––––––––––.
  (f) Grama Niladari's division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   mobile No. :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b) Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by birth or  
  Registration :–––––––––.
   (If by Registration attach a copy of that certificate)
  (c)  if you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––;
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––;
  (iii) applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––;
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grand father :–––––––.
07. date of birth :––––––––––. 
 (Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
  age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette 
Notification) :  
  y ears :––––––––, months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
 
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. civil status :––––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications :––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees to 
inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Sri Lanka Police Service 
before ? (if so, mention rank and regiment No. ....... 
and what are the reasons for leaving the service ? give 
details) :––––––––.
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :–––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in an Armed Service ? (If so attach 
a copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
17. (a) are you serving in a V olunteer armed Service ? 
(if so, your application must be forwarded through 
the respective Service commander) : ––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in a V olunteer Armed service ? 
:––––––––.
  (If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2876
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished (if so give details) :–––––.
i hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri Lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of Institutions (If applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant  mr./miss ..................... 
is serving in ........................... the department corporation/
board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Institution 
 with the designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––;
date :––––––––––.
11–1205
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Promotion 
of the Officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka
Technological Service to Special 
Grade - year 2017
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Minute of 
Sri Lanka technological Service, published in the Gazette  
extra Ordinary No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015, the Limited 
competitive Examination for promotion of officers in Grade 
1 of Sri Lanka technological Service to Special Grade will 
be held by the commissioner General of Examinations, in 
colombo, in the month of march 2019.
02. Officers who have satisfied the following qualifications 
as at 31.12.2017 shall apply for this examination: 
 (i) Officers who have completed at least an active 
and satisfactory service of five (5) years in 
Grade i of Supervisory management assistant 
- technological Service category of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service and have earned the five 
(5) salary increments.
 (ii) Officers who have completed a satisfactory 
service of five (5) years immediately preceding 
the date of promotion. 
03. Following Salary scale shall be applicable to the 
officers in Special Class.
 (mN-7-2016-a Step 4) Rs.21,125-8x365 -18x500-
Rs.33,045
04. Promotion from Grade i to Special Grade of Sri Lanka 
technological Service shall be in the following manner :
 (i) Vacancies in each post in Special Grade of Sri 
Lanka technological Service existing at each 
department and ministry from 01.01.2017 to 
31.12.2017 shall be filled on the results of this 
examination ;
 (ii) the results of the Limited competitive Examination 
for recruitment to the Special Grade shall strictly 
be applicable to fill the vacancies existing from 
01.01.2017 to 31.12.2017 ;
 (iii) Percentage of recruitment :
   Limited 40%
   Service experience and merit  60%
 (iv) at the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 04, the percentage of recruitment under 
the Limited competitive Examination shall be 
25% and the percentage of recruitment under 
service experience and merit shall be 75%. at the 
instances where the approved number of posts 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2877
is 03, the percentage of recruitment under the 
above Limited competitive Examination shall be 
33.33% and the percentage of recruitment under 
service experience and merit shall be 66.66%.
 (v) Filling of vacancies shall be made on the results of 
the Limited competitive Examination subjected 
to the percentages of iii of para 04 above at 
the instances where the number of vacancies 
in Special Grade of Sri Lanka technological 
Service is more than 04.
 (vi) Promotion to Special Grade shall be made by 
the Public Service commission to be effective 
from the date of examination on the order of 
merit of the examination and the number of 
vacancies, after verifying by an interview board 
appointed by the Public Service commission 
that the other relevant qualifications have also 
been fulfilled by those who have passed on the 
results of the Limited competitive Examination 
for promotion to Special Grade conducted by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
on behalf of the Secretary, ministry of Public 
administration.
 (vii) Officers, out of the applicants who have satisfied 
the basic qualifications as at the date on which 
each post has fallen vacant, shall be considered 
for the relevant promotions as per order of merit 
at the time of filling the vacancies.
05. the specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
candidates are required to prepare their application in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers in the 
public service should forward their applications through the 
respective head of department and officers in the Provincial 
Public Service should forward their applications through the 
Secretary of Public Service commission in the Provincial 
council where they serve, by registered post to reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations organizations 
institutions and (Foreign Examinations) branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. box. 1503, colombo on 
or before 31.12.2018. the top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should bear clearly the title of the 
examination. applications received after the closing date of 
applications will be rejected.
06. Proof of Identity.– candidates should prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
Supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose 
one of the following documents should be produced to the 
supervisor of the examination hall.
 (a) the National identity card.
 (b) Valid passport.
 (c) Valid driving license.
 the candidature of any applicant who is unable 
to furnish any of the above documents is liable to 
cancellation on the discretion of commissioner General 
of Examinations.
07. Application :
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper a4 in 
size using both sides. No. 01 to 05 should appear 
on the first page. Applications could be typed but 
they should be completed correctly and legibly 
by the candidate in his/ her own handwriting.
 (ii) When preparing the application, the title of the 
examination should be written in English in 
addition to Sinhala on Sinhala applications and 
tamil on tamil applications. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and have not 
been duly perfected shall be rejected without 
notice. therefore, the candidates themselves 
should make sure that the perfected applications 
are in conformity with the specimen form. it is 
advisable to keep a photo copy of the application 
form with the candidate. 
 (iii) candidates are not allowed to change the 
language medium selected by them in their 
applications. if applications are received in all 
three language mediums, i.e. Sinhala, tamil and 
English, the examination will be held in those 
three language mediums. However, candidates 
should answer all the question papers in one and 
the same language selected by them.
 (iv) candidates who appear for this examination 
for the first time are not required to pay any 
examination fee. However, if a subsequent 
sitting, an examination fee of Rs.600/- should 
be paid at any Post Office/Sub Post Office or 
district/divisional Secretariat to be credited to 
Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 
application form. money orders or Stamps are 
not accepted for examination fees. it is advisable 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2878
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. the fee 
shall not be paid back or shall not be allowed 
to transfer in respect of any other examination 
under any circumstances.
08. (i) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates 
who have forwarded duly perfected applications 
along with the receipt if payment of examination 
fee on or before the closing date of examination 
mentioned in the Notification is applicable, 
medium of examination, public service to 
which the applicant belongs, signature of the 
applicant and the attestation of the signature, 
recommendation and certification of the Head 
of the department, on the presumption that only 
those who possess the qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette Notification have applied. 
Officers sittin g for the examination must get 
his signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and produce to the supervisor of the 
examination center. it will not be allowed to 
sit for the examination without such admission 
card. Further, issuance of an admission card to 
a candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
 (ii) as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to candidates, department of Examinations 
will publish a notice announcing the same in 
newspapers and the official webside of the 
department. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
it should be inquired from the organizations 
(institutional and Foreign Examination) 
branch, department of Examinations in the 
manner as mentioned in the notification. The 
applicant should correctly mention the name 
of the examination applied for, full name of 
the applicant, national identity card number 
and address when making such inquiry. in case 
of applicants outside colombo, it would be 
advisable to make the request sending a letter 
of request stating the same to the fax number 
mentioned in the Notification along with the fax 
number to which a copy of the admission card 
can be sent promptly. it would be useful to have 
the following documents in hand at the time of 
calling the department of Examinations, i.e. a 
photocopy of the application form, receipt of 
payment of examination fees (if applicable) and 
receipt of registration.
 (iii) candidate shall get his/ her signature on the 
application and the admission card attested by the 
Head of the institution or an officer authorized 
by him. candidate shall sit for the examination 
at the examination hall assigned to him under 
the specific number given to him and produce 
his admission card with his signature attested 
to the supervisor of the examination center on 
the day of the examination. any candidate who 
fails to produce his admission card shall not be 
permitted to sit for the examination.
09. the documents furnished later by the candidates who 
have failed to satisfy the requirement  indicated in Para (08) 
above will not be considered.
10. Issuance of the results of the examination.– actions 
shall be taken to issue the results of this examination to the 
Secretary of the Public Service commission. 
11. Scheme of Examination.– Examination for promotion 
of officers in Class 1 to Special Class will consist of 2 
question  papers.
 (1) aptitude test  - duration 1 hour  - 100 marks
 (2) management - duration 3 hours - 100 marks
 candidates shall be required to obtain a minimum 
of 40% of the marks for each question paper to be 
qualified. 
Syllabus of the first question paper shall be as follows:
 Aptitude Test - Subject No. (1)
  A test designed to assess as to whether the officer 
has acquired knowledge, skills and  attitudes required 
for the fulfillment of tasks entrusted to him/her in an 
efficiency beyond the performance at average level 
and whether the officer displays competency in the 
application of the above.
  this question paper consists of 50 questions in 
the form of multiple choice and Question for Short 
answers and all the questions should be answered.
 Syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows:

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2879
 management - Subject No. (2)
 (i) Principles  of management
 (ii) management Functions
 Planning
 decision making
 Process of decision making
 organization
 Staffing
 directing
 motivation Process
 Leadership
 control
 Process of controlling
 (iii) Participatory management
 (iv) management Environment
 (v) case Study
this is a structured essay type question paper. all the 
questions should be answered.
12. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of  Examinations 
in conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for breach of these rules. in accordance with the regulations 
relevant to this notification, if a candidate is found to be 
ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any 
stage prior to during or after the examination.
13. the decision of the Secretary of the Public Service 
Commission will be the final in respect of any matter not 
provided for in this notification.
14. in case of an inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English text of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 
on the order of the Public Service  commission,
 J. J. 
rathnasiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Home
 affairs and Justice.
Ministry of Public Administration Home affairs and Justice,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
15th November, 2018.
SPEcimEN FoRm oF aPPLicatioN
 
(For office use only)
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha i fY%A‚fha ks,Orhka úfYAI 
fY%A‚hg Wiia lsÍfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2017
limited comPetitive examination for Promotion of the 
officers in grade i of sri lanka technological 
service to sPecial grade - 2017
01. (a) Medium in which the officer appears for the 
examination :
  (Sinhala-2/ tamil-3/ English - 4) (indicate the 
relevant number in the cage)
  indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public 
Service or which public service
  (indicate the number relevant to the 
public service to which you belong)
 (Western Provincial Public Service - 01/ central 
Provincial Public Service - 02/ Southern Provincial 
Public Service - 03/ Northern Provincial Public 
Service - 04/ Eastern Provincial Public Service - 05/ 
North Western Provincial Public Service - 06/ North 
central Provincial Public Service - 07/ Uva Provincial 
Public Service - 08/ Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public 
Service - 09/ central Government Service -10)
 (b) Name in full (in English block capital letters) :               
–––––––––––.
  (Eg: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 (c) Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (in English block capital letters) :––––––––––.
  (eg: GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 (d) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (e) Official address (Admissions will be posted to 
this address) : 
  (in English capital letters) :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––.
 (f) Sex : 
  (male - 0/ Female - 1)
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2880
 (g) National identity card No.:
 (h) t elephone Number :
02. department which you belong to :–––––––––––.
03. designation :–––––––––––.
04. Period of service as at 31.12.2017 : 
 y ears  : months : days :
05. (i) date of birth : 
  y ear : month : date :
 (ii) age as at 31.12.2017 : 
  y ears : months : days :
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs.600
firmly, if not the first sitting.
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy)
Receipt number of the examination fee :–––––––––––.
Office to which the fee was paid :–––––––––––.
amount paid :–––––––––––.
i declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate 
and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. Furthermore, i hereby agree 
to be abided by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in conducting the 
examination and issuing the results.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
Note :- candidate should place his/ her signature in the 
presence of the Head of Department or an officer 
duly authorized to sign on his behalf or Head of the 
Regional Office.
Attestation of Candidate's Signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ………………….  is 
presently  employed in my office and is personally known 
to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my  presence 
on ………………………… and he/ she is exempted from 
payment of examination fee/has paid the examination fee 
and affixed the relevant receipt.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester. 
 Official Stamp.
date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation and Certification of the Head of the 
Department
 (i) Recommendation of the Head of the Department 
on the disciplinary inquiries that were carried on 
or are being carried on against the applicant : .....
    .............................................................................
    ..............................................................................
  .............................................................................
 (ii) i hereby certify that the particulars given in 
paragraphs 01-05 above are correct, that this 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination, 
that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination 
in the language medium mentioned above and he/ 
she is exempted from payment of examination 
fee/ has paid the examination fee and affixed the 
relevant receipt.
 –––––––––––––––, 
 Signature and designation of Head of 
 department. 
 Official Stamp.
date :–––––––––––.
Note.– A certified copy should be sent to the personal 
file of the candidate and the other copy should be 
sent to reach department of Examinations of Sri 
Lanka promptly. 
11-1308

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2881
amENdmENt
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT AND vOCATIONAL TRAINING 
Department of Technical Education and Training 
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL 
coLLEGES - 2019
THIS refers to the Gazette No. 2,096 published on 02.11.2018 regarding Notice No. 11-320 the recruitment of students to the 
colleges of technology and technical colleges under the department of technical Education and training for the academic 
year 2019.
02. it is informed that the course details included for the trincomalee technical college in the above Gazette 
Notification has been amended as follows and applications should be submitted to the Principal, Technical College 
trincomalee on or before 28.12.2018.
03. applications are also called for the following c. N. c. (computer Numerical control) courses from maradana 
college of technology and Nuwara Eliya technical college. closing date for these courses is 28th december 2018.
 P. N. k. malalasekara, 
 director General,
 department of technical Education and training. 
P. o. box 557, 
olcott mawatha, 
colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk
schedule of courses conducted in technical college trincomalee - 2019
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level 
and Colleges where the 
courses are Available 
01 Ecc18 National Certificate in 
Engineering craft Practice   
(motor Vehicle mechanic)
Full time day two years
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (06) 
subjects with passes in mathematics & 
medium Language in not more than 
two sittings.  
or
2.   Should have obtained NVQ 3 
Qualification in relevant field.
3.   age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee
02 EcS27 automobile Electrician 
Full time day Six months
1. Should have passed Grade 10
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2882
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level 
and Colleges where the 
courses are Available 
03 Etc05 National Certificate in 
Engineering draughtsman 
ship
Full time day one year
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six 
(6) subjects with four (04) credits 
including mathematics/ Science and 
medium language in  not more than 
two sittings.
(Preference will be given to those 
followed  G.c.E. (a/L) in 
mathematics Stream /Engineering 
technology Stream) 
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years   as on  01.01.2019
Sinhala medium 
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee 
04 EcS31 National Certificate in 
Engineering craft Practice   
(Plumber)
Full time day Six months
1. Should have studied up to           
      Grade 10  
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019. 
Sinhala medium 
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
05 Ecc 01 construction Site Supervisor
Full time day one year
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
Subjects with passes in mathematics, 
Science and medium Language in not 
more than two sittings.
2.  age should be between 17 and 29 years 
as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee 
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee
06 Etc01.1 National Certificate 
in technology(civil 
Engineering)
Part time three years 
(Restricted to those 
employed in the relevant 
field.)
1.  G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six 
(6) subjects in not more than two 
sittings. 
     Six (6) subjects should be:-
 (a)   Sinhala/tamil/English Language
(b)   mathematics and Science
(c) three other subjects
or
2.   Should have obtained NVQ 3 /4 
Qualification for relevant field.
3.   age should not be less than 17 years 
as on 01.01.2019.
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 05
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 5
trincomalee

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2883
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level 
and Colleges where the 
courses are Available 
07 Ecc 03 Certificate in Computer 
Hardware 
Full time day Six months
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
Subjects with passes in mathematics, 
Science and medium Language in not 
more than two sittings.
or
  Should have completed basic computer 
Science course
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
08 Ecc 12 information communication 
technology technician
Full time day Six months
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
Subjects with passes in mathematics, 
medium Language and English 
Language in not more than two 
sittings.
2.  age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee
09 Ecc54 it Support 
Full time day Six months
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
Subjects with passes in mathematics, 
Science, medium Language and 
English Language 
2. age should be between 17 and 29 years 
as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 04
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 04
trincomalee
10 Ecc22 Certificate in Electrical 
trade
Full time day one year
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (06) 
Subjects in not more than two sittings.  
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee
11 Ecc21 Certificate in House Hold 
Electrical appliances 
Repairing
Full time day Six months 
1. Should have passed grade 10
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
12 bSc 04 National Certificate for
accounting technicians
Full time day one year
1.    G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
Subjects with passes in mathematics 
and medium Language in two 
sittings.
2.    age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
 trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 4
trincomalee

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2884
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level 
and Colleges where the 
courses are Available 
13 ESc02 National Certificate in 
Professional English 
Full time day one year
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
subjects with a  pass in English
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
English medium
trincomalee
14 Ecc02 National Certificate in 
Engineering craft Practice 
–  (Gas & arc Welder)
Full time day one year
1. Should have studied up to Grade 10.
.
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019. 
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
15 bSc 20 National Certificate in 
Shorthand, typewriting and 
computing .
Full time day one year
NVQ 3 Certificate will be 
awarded for this course 
in computer application 
assistant trade.
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (6) 
subjects with passes in mathematics 
and medium Language in not more 
than two sittings. 
     
Should have a credit pass in medium 
Language
2. age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019.    
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
16 Ecc05 National Certificate in 
Engineering craft Practice 
–  (Refrigeration & air 
conditioning mechanic)
Full time day one year
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (06) 
subjects with passes in mathematics, 
Science & medium Language in not 
more than two sittings. 
                     or
2.   Should have obtained NVQ 3 
Qualification for relevant field.
3.   age should be between 17 and 29 
years as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium 
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
17 mcS29 Nurse assistant
Full time day three months
1. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (06) 
subjects with passes in mathematics, 
Science, medium Language & English 
in not more than two sittings.
2.age should be between 17 and 29 years 
as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
18 mcS26 care Giver
Full time day three months
1.   G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in Six (06) 
Subjects in not more than two sittings.  
2. age should be between 17 and 29 years 
as on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee
Tamil medium
NvQ Level 3
trincomalee

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'30
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2018
2885
c.n.c. (comPuter numerical control) courses 
Serial 
No.
Code 
No. Name of Course Admission Qualification
medium/ NvQ Level 
and Colleges where the 
courses are Available 
01 EcS 60 c.N.c. milling operator 
Full time day three 
months
1. Should have obtained NVQ Level 03 
Certificate for Machinist
or
Should have followed at least one year 
machinist course
2. age should not be less than 17 years as 
on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
maradana, Nuwara Eliya
02 Ecc 58
c.N.c. machinist 
Full time day one year
1. Passed minimum in 3 subjects at G. c. 
E. (a/L) in Engineering technology/
mathematics/Science (Preference will 
be given to those who have followed 
G. c. E. (a/L) in Engineering 
technology Stream)
2. age should not be less than 17 years as 
on 01.01.2019
Sinhala medium
NvQ Level 4
Nuwara Eliya
11–1431
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.