

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.10.2017
137
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 138
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"042- 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'10'20                                                                                                           
No. 2,042 - FRIDAy , OCtObER  20,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  10nd November 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th October, 2017.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
137 - b 81218-353 (2017/10)

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.10.2017
138
miscellaneous Lands notices
Ref.  No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/43488.
Ref.  No. of  Provincial  Land  Commissioner: 
m<d;a$bfld$b6$wdK$os'n'$2-7  
noTIfIcATIon   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby noticed that Saviya Uthura Prajamula 
Organization    has requested  the  state  land  allotment in 
extent of 0.0506 Ha. depicted as Lot  No. 565 in the Plan No. 
I. S. P. P. 19 and   situated in the  village of Kottukachchiya 
of No.  649 B,  Colony 1  Grama Niladhari Division  which 
belongs to Anamaduwa  Divisional Secretary's Division 
in the  District of  Puttalam on lease  to run the Prajamula 
Organization.   
02. the boundaries of the land requested are given below :
 
On the North by : Lot No. 564 ;
On the East by : Lot No. 564 ;
On the  South by :  Lot No 654 & 69  ;
On the West by : Lot No 564 & 69. 
03. the requested land can be granted on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved          
conditions and the  following conditions : - 
 (a)  Term  of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( From 
06.10.2016 onwards) ;
  The Annual  Amount of the Lease.– 2% of the  
Undeveloped value  of the land  in the  year  2016 as 
per  the  valuation of the  Chief Valuer. 
Premium .- Not levied  ; 
 (b)  t he lessees must not use  the said land for any purpose   
what so ever other than  to run the  saviya  Uthura 
Prajamula Organization  ;
 (c) the lessees must, within a period of  one year from  
the date of commencement of the lease, develop  the 
said  land, to the  satisfaction  of the  Provincial Land  
Commissioner/Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (d)  this lease  shall also  be subject  to the  other  
special conditions   imposed by the  Provincial 
Land Commissioner/Divisional Secratary and other  
institutions;  
 
 (e) Constructed buildings  must be maintained in a  proper 
state of repair; 
 (f)  If the  lessee fails to substantiate the  purpose for  
which the land  was  obtained within  the specified 
period  of time  steps will be taken to cancel the  
agreement of lease;
 (g) No permission will be granted until expiry of  05 years   
from the   date 06.10.2016 on  which the Hon. Minister 
granted approval, for  any other  subleasing or vesting 
other than  subleasing or vesting  to  substantiate the  
purpose of which  the land  was  obained. 
 (h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within Six weeks of  herein Gazette publication to the  effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be 
leased out as requested. 
  
Y . Y . N. Perera, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, "Mihikatha Medura",  
Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla.
20th October,  2017.
10-508 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/42488.
Deputy  Land  Commissioner's  No.: NCP/PLC/L9/PL/04.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  
LAnD  ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Commercial purpose,  Mr. 
Chandralal Pushpakumara Gamage  has  requested on lease 
a  State land containing in extent about  01 Acre 02 Rood 
36.1 Perches  out of  extent marked  Lot  No. -  as depicted 
in the  tracing  Plan -  situated in the  village   Galapitagala 
with   belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of  No. 
604 Galahitigala  coming  within  the area of authority 
of Palugaswewa  Divisional Secretariat in the  District of  
Anuradhapura. 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 20.10.2017
139
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Canel Reservation  ;
On the East by : State Land lease by Government ;
On the  South by :  Kakirawa Habarana Road  Reservation;
On the West by : Land of E. W. D. Muthumanika. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions 
: - 
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( 13.01.2017);
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  commercial   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year 2017. this amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the 
amount  as  a result of the  revision will be not  less 
than  50% of the amount that just preceded.  
Premium .- three times of the annual rent of the  
lease  ; 
 (b)  this lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the purpose of  Commercial Activities;
 (d) this lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of 
a minimum period of 05 years from the  dates 
13.01.2017  ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
  
Pubudi Premadasa, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner(Land),
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla,
20th October,  2017.
10-593 