

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1067
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1064
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"019 – 2017 uehs ui 12 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'05'12
No. 2,019 –  fRiday ,  may  12, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd  June, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th may, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1061-B 81169- 5,403(05/2017)
N. B.–  (i)  Part iii of the Gazette No. 2,018 of 05.05.2017 was not published.
 (ii) the list of Jurors in Galle and Balapitiya Jurisdiction area in year 2017 have been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in 
all three Languages. 
Note.–   (i) assistance to and Protection of Victims of crime and Witnesses (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to 
the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 05, 2017. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1062
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1063
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1064
Posts – vacant
DEPARTmENT Of SPORTS DEvELOPmENT
Limited Recruitment to Post of Supervisory 
management Assistant Technology Grade III 
of Sports Coach of Sports Officers’ Combined 
Service 
aPPLicatioNS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who 
serve as Government officers of Central Government and 
Provincial Public Service, in the posts of Supervisory 
management assistant technology Grade iii of Sports 
Coach of Sports Officers’ Combined Service, to fill 
28 vacancies existing in the department of Sports 
development. 
01. Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications : 
(A) 1.  Should have passed the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in six subjects in one sitting with 
four credit passes for Sinhala/tamil/English, 
mathematics and two other subjects. 
 2. Should have passed G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination with three simple passes (Except 
common General Paper) ; 
and 
  Should have won first place in Provincial 
Level (between districts) of National Sports 
festival conducted by the ministry of Sports. 
  Winning first, Second or third place at 
National Sports festival. 
  Winning first, Second or third place at 
National Sports championship events 
conducted by National Sports federations 
registered under Sports act ; 
  or
(B) (i) Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination in Six Subjects in one sitting, 
with four credit passes for Sinhala/t amil/
English, mathematics and two other subjects ; 
and 
 (ii) Should have won medals for first, Second 
or third places in South asian Games, 
commonwealth Games, olympic Games 
or World-cup championships in Sports, 
representing Sri Lanka. 
 1.2 Professional Qualifications : 
 (i) Should have obtained a technical diploma, 
Level 06 (NVQ) relevant to the Sports 
field accepted by the Tertiary V ocational 
Educational commission. 
 (ii) Should have successfully completed a coach 
training course which is not less than 3 
months, conducted by an institution accepted 
by the department of Sports development or 
should have a trainer license to the relevant 
field issued by the relevant Sports Federation 
established under the Sports act. 
 1.3 experience : 
 (a)  For sports officers of the Central Government:
  Should have active and satisfactory service of 
08 years as a Sports Officer and should have 
earned 08 increments. 
 (b) For officer of Provincial Public Service :
  Should be a permanent officer of Provincial 
Public Service in a similar post of Sports 
officer, with at least 08 years of active and 
satisfactory service. 
 1.4 Physical Conditions.- candidates should be of 
sound physical and mental condition to serve in 
any part of the country. 
Note.- Sports officers of the Central Government 
will be recruited first and if there are more 
vacancies exist, qualified officers of the 
Provincial Public Service will be recruited 
under the limited stream. 
 1.5 Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Post should have been confirmed. 
 (ii) Should have completed satisfactory 
performance within eight years before the 
date of interview. 
 (iii) Should have completed satisfactory service 
period of 5 years immediately preceding. 
 (iv) Should have obtained language proficiency 
at required level. 
 (v) Should have passed the required efficiency 
bar examinations.
 (vi) Should have completed all qualification 
mentioned above. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1065
2. Fitness evaluation interview : 
Main heads to present 
marks
Maximum 
Marks
Minimum 
Marks for the 
selection
additional Service 
experience
30
Not relevant
additional Educational and 
V ocational qualifications
25
talents in the post as a 
sports officer
20
additional Experience 
in training, umpiring, 
organizing events
20
Skills in the interview 05
total 100
* Certificates Submitted at the interview for recruitment 
to the post of Sports Officer (of the Sports Officers' 
combined service) will not be considered again for 
giving marks.
*Qualifications will be checked during the interview of 
fitness evaluation.
*Recruitment to post of supervisory management 
assistant, technology Grade iii of Sports coach of 
Sports Officers' Combined Service, will be made 
on the basis of existing vacancies according to 
the sequence of total marks obtained at the fitness 
evaluation interview.
03.Salary Scale .– according to the appendix i of 
Public administration circular 03/2016, of 25.02.2016, 
salary scale is 31,040-10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750-
Rs.57,550 (mN3-2016)
you will be paid according to the provisions laid down 
in appendix ii of the above circular.
you are entitled to the other allowances paid by the 
Government to the public officers from time to time.
04. Submitting applications :
 4.1 candidates should send their applications 
prepared according to the specimen application 
form in the end of this notice, by Registered 
post, on or before 02.06.2017 through their 
Heads of the departments.
 4.2 Sending applications
  director General,
  department of Sports development
  No.09, Philip Gunawardena mawatha,
  colombo 07.
 4.3 on the top left corner of the envelope should 
bear the legend ''Limited Recruitment to post of 
Supervisory management assistant technology 
Grade III of Sports Coach of Sports Officers' 
Combined Service''.
5.in the case of any ambiguity between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts, Sinhala texts will prevail.
6. Service Conditions :
 6.1 this post is permanent and pensionable and is 
subjected to policy decisions that may be taken by 
the Government in future.
 6.2 With respect to every appointment conditions of 
the Procedural Rules and Regulations of Public 
Service commission, published in extraordinary 
Gazette No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 and regulations 
in Establishment code will apply.
  if any information furnished herein found to be 
false or seemed to have been willfully suppressed 
by the applicant or he/she has been found to be 
disqualified during the course of his/her service he/
she will be liable to be dismissed.
 S.E.R.t .m.S.P. 
Bandara,
 director General,
 department of Sports development.
No. 09,
Philip Gunawardhana mawatha,
colombo 07,
26th april, 2017.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1066
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
department of SportS development
limited recruitment to poSt of SuperviSory management aSSiStant technology grade iii of SportS coach of 
SportS officerS' comBined Service.
 central Government
 Provincial Public Service 
 (tick the relevance service) 
01.Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials : ex: (GUNaWaRdaNa m.G.B.S.K.)
  (fill in block capitals)
03. National identity card No. :
04. Gender :–––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
06. Official Address :–––––––––––.
07. telephone No. :–––––––––––.
08. Have you fulfilled all the qualification mentioned in the 1st paragraph of the Gazette ? :–––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualification :
  (a) G.c.E. (o/L) Examination :
 y ear :–––––––––––.
 index No. :–––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Grade
  (B) G.c.E. (a/L) Examination :
 y ear :–––––––––––.
 index No. :–––––––––––.
 
Serial No. Subject Grade
10. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
  (Photo copies of the original certificates should be attached to the application)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1067
11. Experience :–––––––––.
12. Present post :–––––––––.
 12.1 State whether that post belongs to central Government Sevice or Provincial Public Service :–––––––––.
 12.2 date of appointment to the present post :–––––––––.
 12.3 Date of confirmation :–––––––––.
 12.4 Service period up to 01.01.2017
  y ears :–––––––––.  months  :–––––––––.  days :–––––––––.
 12.5 Place of works at present :–––––––––.
13. State whether you have been convicted of any case at  a court of law or any action pending ? yes/No :–––––––––.
  if yes, Submit information :–––––––––.
14. Certificate of the applicant :
 (a) i do hereby certify that the information given here are true and accurate.
 (B) I am aware that I will be liable to disqualified to be recruited to this post and dismissed in the event such 
information is found to be false after appointment.
 (c) i will not change any information provided herein at any later occasion.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––.
15. the applicant, mr./mrs./miss  .............................. is working in the ................................. ministry / department, under 
central Government /Provincial Public Service, as a ............................. (post) and he/she has not been subjected to 
any disciplinary action (other than warning), 08 years of service immediately preceding.
 He/She has active and satisfactory service, within last 05 years of service immediately preceding and obtained 
requisite qualification mentioned in the Gazette.
 if he/she is selected to this post, he/she can/cannot be released from the post he/ she is presently holding.
 ––––––––––––––, 
 Signature of the Head of the department /institution.
date :–––––––––.
05-329
mINISTRy Of RuRAL ECONOmy 
Department of Animal Production and health 
REcRUitmENt to PoSt of tEcHNicaL officER 
of SRi LaNKa tEcHNoLoGicaL SERVicE 
GRadE iii - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited by the director General 
of the animal Production and Health for the Sri Lanka 
technological Service competitive examination to 
recruit for the post of technical Officer in Grade III of the 
department of animal Production and Health. 
02. examination.- the examination will be held in 
august 2017 by the director General of animal Production 
and Health. the right to postpone or cancel the examination 
shall be with the director General. 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1068
03. Condition of the Service.- Recruitment, will be made 
to the post of Technical Officer of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service Grade iii subjected to the general conditions of the 
Public Service and the following conditions governing the 
appointments of the Public Service :-
 (i) The selected officer is subjected to the 
conditions of serving any part of the island ;
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. the 
selected applicant should contribute to the 
Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphan’ Pension 
fund ;
 (iii) The officers, who are recruited under the open 
competitive examination will be on probation 
for a period of 3 years. If a Public officer 
already confirmed in a permanent post in the 
Public Service is appointed, he will be kept 
under the acting period for a period of one 
year. The officers who are appointed by the 
open competitive examination should pass the 
relevant 1st efficiency bar examination before 
confirmed in the post. 
 (iv) All the officers who have recruited for the 
Public Service should obtain the proficiency in 
an official language in addition to the official 
language medium in which they gained 
qualifications to enter the Public Service 
within 05 years from the date of appointment. 
 (v) The selected officer is subjected to the orders 
of the Public Service commission provisions of 
the Establishments code, financial Regulations 
and conditions and regulations issued by the 
Government from time to time and the regulations 
of the ministry and department. 
04. Salary Scale : 
MN-3-2016 - Technical Officer III. Rs. 31,040 
-10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550.
this post is entitled to the salary steps Rs. 31,040 
-10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550 of 
this salary scale. (Salaries shall be paid as mentioned in 
Schedule - ii of the Pa circular No. 03/2016).
The officer of the Grade III should pass the 1st Efficiency 
Bar Examination before the 3rd increment. 
05. Age Limit : 
minimum age limit : Should not be less than 18 
years. 
maximum age limit : Not more than 30 years. 
06. Educational and Vocational Qualifications : 
Educational Qualifications .- Should have passed             
G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination in one 
sitting in 06 subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala/tamil/English Language, mathematics, 
Science and one other subject ; 
and 
G. c. E. (a/L) in three science subjects in the 
stream of Science/maths including two subjects 
from applied mathematics, Pure mathematics, 
chemistry, Physics and combined maths and 
pass the examination in one and the same sitting. 
Vocational Qualifications .- National Engineering 
Diploma (for the field of civil engineering) 
offered by the University of moratuwa or Hardy 
institute - ampara ; 
or 
Higher National Engineering Diploma (for the field 
of civil engineering) offered by the ministry of 
Education and Higher Education ; 
or
technical diploma offered by the Sri Lanka open 
University ; 
or
Successful completion of first part (for the field of 
civil engineering) of the Engineering Examination 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering institute ; 
or
Should have obtained other technical qualifications 
similar to the above mentioned qualifications 
in all respects recognized by the Sri Lanka 
technological Services Board subsequently 
in consultation with the ministry of Higher 
Education and the institutes issuing above 
mentioned technical certificates. 
Physical Fitness.- Should be physically fit and bear an 
excellent moral character, the physical fitness should be 
proved by a medical certificates.
Other : 
 (i) applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should bear an excellent character.
 (iii) only when the candidate has completed all the 
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all 
respects at the closing date of the applications 
it would be accepted his/her eligibility at sitting 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1069
for the competitive examination of recruiting to 
the post. 
7. Method of Recruitment .- all Recruitments will be 
carried out as per the relevant circulars and the Sri Lanka 
technological Service minute. 
the candidates who have scored 40% or above for each 
and every paper will be called for the interviews on the 
merit basis. marks will not be given at the interview : 
the candidates those who were able to confirm their 
qualifications will be recruited to the post based on the merit 
of the aggregae marks obtained at the written examination. 
Written examination.- this examination will be 
comprised with 02 papers. 
Subjects Duration Maximum 
Marks
Passed 
Marks
1. intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2. General paper 
(technical and 
subject related 
test)
01 hour 100 40
08. examination : 
 (i) the examination will be conducted in Sinhala/
tamil and English medium. 
 (ii) candidates may answer in any language and 
all the papers should be answered in one 
language. 
 (iii) Permission will not be given to change the 
Language medium applied at the Examination. 
 (iv) the examination fee will be Rs. 400. 
09. Method of Application.- (1) the application should 
be prepared in accordance with the specimen application 
form attached to this notification. Application should be 
prepared on paper 8 1/2 x 12(a4) using both sides of it. 
the application should be sent under registered cover 
to reach the director General, department of animal 
Production and Health, P. o. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya 
on or before 12th of June 2017. the words “competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of technical 
Officer Grade III” should be written on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope clearly. the applications received 
after the closing date will be rejected. 
Note :
 (i) the candidates who are in the Public Service 
should forward their application through the 
Head of the department/institute. 
 (ii) incomplete applications will be rejected. No 
allegation that an application has been delayed 
or lost in the post will be considered. 
 (iii) application will not be acknowledged. a notice 
announcing the date of the examination will be 
published in the newspapers. if admission are 
not received within four days prior to the date 
of the examination, the candidates are requested 
to inform the director General, department of 
animal Production and Health immediately with 
the following particulars : 
 (i) full name of the applicant,
 (ii) address, 
 (iii) date of posting, registered No. and post 
office. 
10. the photostat copies of the following should be 
attached to the application :
 (i) Certificate of Birth ;
 (ii) Educational/V ocational Certificates. 
Identity of the Candidate.- Every candidate is required to 
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the Supervisor. the following documents are accepted 
for that purpose. 
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
commissioner General of Registration of 
Persons, 
 (ii) a  valid passport (issued 3 years prior to the date 
of the examination). 
Submission of false information.- if it reveals that a 
candidate has not gained the required qualifications to sit 
for the examination his/her candidature can be cancelled 
before or during the examination or after the examination 
or at any stage. if it appears that a candidate has submitted 
false information knowingly he/she will be dismissed from 
service. 
the candidates should draw their attention and adhere 
to the general conditi ons pertaining to the appointment 
to the Public Service stipulated in the Paragraph (3) of 
this Gazette notification and rules and regulations for the 
candidates. 
11. if Sinhala/tamil or English versions of the Gazette 
notification are comparative the Sinhala versions will be 
accepted. 
12. the director General, department of animal 
Production and Health deserves himself the right to take a 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1070
decision with regard to a problem arisen about the number 
to be recruited and that will be the final decision. 
 dr. R. m. ariyadaSa, 
 director General of animal 
 Production and Health (Acting).
department of animal production and Health, 
Peradeniya, 
19th april, 2017. 
miniStry of rural economy
department of animal production and health 
ReCRuITMeNT TO POST OF TeChNICAL OFFICeR 
OF SRI LANkA TeChNOLOGICAL SeRvICe 
GRADe III - 2015
 medium selected 
(Write the relevant number (For office use only)
in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
01.  Name :
 1.1 Name with initials (in block letters) (Example : 
SiLVa, B. a.) :–––––––––––.
 1.2 full Name in Sinhala :–––––––––––.
 1.3 N. i. c. No. : 
02.  address :
  Private address :–––––––––––.
 Official Address :–––––––––––.
 the address to which the admission card to be sent : 
  –––––––––––.
 telephone No.  :–––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Gender (mark the relevant cage) :
    female
    male
 3.2 date of Birth : 
  y ear : month : date : 
 3.3 age as at the closing date of the application : 
  y ear : month : date :
 3.4 civil Status : (mark the relevant cage) :
  married 
  Single
04. Educational Qualifications : 
 4.1 G. c. E. (o/L) : year :–––––––. month :–––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
 4.2 G. c. E. (a/L) : year :–––––––. month :–––––––.
 
Subject Grade Index No.
 4.3 (a) the institute from where the vocational 
qualifications obtained :–––––––––––.
  (b)  The year in which the vocational qualifications 
obtained :–––––––––––.
05. the present occupation and the previous posts held (if 
available) :
Post Institute From To
06. the name of the post office to which the examination 
fees had been paid : 
 No. of the money order :–––––––––––.
the examination fee is Rs. 400.00 it can be paid 
to any post office in the island in favour of the 
director General, animal Production and Health. 
Affix the receipt here. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1071
07. i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct. i am also aware that 
if any of the information furnished by me is found to be 
false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before 
selection or to be dismissed without any compensation 
if such detection is made after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent 
posts in the public service at present : 
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i, certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss. …………… 
is serving in this department as a ……………………….. 
and foregoing particulars were checked by me and found 
to be correct. He/She could/could not be released from the 
present post held by him/her if selected for the above post. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Head of the department.
 Rubber stamp should be used.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
05-209
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of LAbOuR AND TRADE uNION 
RELATIONS
The Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer 
(Grade III) in the Department of Labour - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited from qualified Sri Lankan 
Citizens in order to fill five (05) posts of Sinhala medium 
and four (04) posts of English medium vacancies exist in 
the post of Stenographer (Grade iii) in the department 
of Labour which comes under the purview of ministry of 
Labour and trade Union Relations.
01. Appointment.– appointment to the vacancies will 
be made according to the merit order of the results of the 
written and professional tests comducted by the National 
institute of Labour Studies which comes under the purview 
of ministry of Labour and trade Union Relations.
02.  Qualifications :
 (i) Should have passed six subjects (06) at the 
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination with credit 
passes for Sinhala/t amil/English Languages, 
mathematics and two (02) other subjects at one 
sitting ;
  and
 (ii) Should have passed at least one (01) subject at 
the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination (Except General 
common test and Genaral English under new 
syllabus)
 2.2 Professional Qualifications :
  Should have followed a course on stenography 
with not less than six (06) months in an 
institution recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission or 
should have obtained a credit pass for type 
writing and shorthand at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination.
 Note : institutions approved by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission for 
shorthand and computer typing are as 
follows.
  colleges of t echnology and technical 
colleges belong to department of technical 
Education and training.
  the training centers belongs to National 
apprentice and industrial training authority 
(Naita)
  the training centers belongs to National 
youth Services council.
  the training centers belongs to Sri Lanka 
V ocational training authority.
 2.3  experience :
  Having obtained a six months (06) practical 
training by a government approved institution 
after the above course.
 2.4 Other Qualifications :
 (i) applicant should be a citizen of Sri 
Lanka.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1072
 (ii) Should have an excellent moral character.
 (iii) All the necessary qualifications required 
for the post should have been fulfilled in 
every respect as at the date mentioned in 
the application calling notification.
03.  age should not be less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years as at the closing date of applications.
04.  Terms of employment and service conditions :
 4.1 This post is permanent. The officers should 
be subject to the policy decision on the 
pension scheme relevant to the post, which 
will be taken by the government in future.
 4.2 this appointment is subject to a probation 
period of 03 years.
 4.3 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed before 
lapse of 03 years after appointment to grade 
iii.
 4.4 i n terms of Public administration circular No 
01/2014 and incidental circulars thereto the 
relevant proficiency in other official language 
should be acquired within 05 years from the 
date of appointment to the post in addition 
to the medium of language in which entered 
the service. Also the officers who entered the 
service in a medium of language which is not 
an official language should acquire prescribed 
proficiency in the official language within the 
probation period.
 4.5 Selected candidates will be appointed 
to the post of stenographer - Grade iii 
subject to the general conditions governing 
the appointments in the public service, 
Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission, financial Regulations, 
Establishments code and any amendment 
made or to be made to it hereafter, other 
departmental orders, terms and conditions 
set out in the Scheme of Recruitment 
approved by Public Service commission on 
11.04.2013 and subject to any amendment 
made or to be made hereafter to the Scheme 
of Recruitment.
 4.6 Should serve in the Head Office of 
the department of Labour located at 
Narahenpita, colombo - 05.
05. Salary scale.– the monthly salary scale applied 
to this post is Rs. 27,140-10x300-11x350-10x495-
10x660-45,540 (Salary code mN 1-2016 as per Public 
administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 salary 
will be paid according to the schedule ii of the said circular)
06.  Method of recruitment. –  this open competitive 
examination consist of a written test and a professional 
test. The written test will be held first. The candidates those 
who have secured more than 40% marks for written test 
will be called for professional test. as this is a competitive 
examination, candidates should secure at least 40% for each 
subject in order to be qualified for appointment. Vacancies 
will be filled according to the order of total marks, based 
on the number of vacancies to be filled. (It is compulsory 
to have been completed all the qualifications stated in this 
notification)
 the examination will be held in Sinhala and English 
mediums. it will not be allowed to change the medium 
later. applicants who have applied for Sinhala medium 
posts should appear in Sinhala medium and those who have 
applied for English medium posts should appear in English 
medium at the examination. appointments to Sinhala and 
English medium posts will be made according to the merit 
order of the result of the candidates in Sinhala and English 
medium respectively.
 6.1 Written examination :
Question paper Marks Pass 
Marks
Duration
General knowledge 
and composition 
(Sinhala/English)
100 40% 02 hours
 (a) The syllabus of the written examination :
  General knowledge and composition
  Testing of candidate's general knowledge on 
current affairs in National and international 
fields.
  Writting a composition on a selected topic 
from amongst the given topics, which are 
timely important. (consideration will be paid 
to presenting distinctive ideas, language skill, 
correct grammar and spelling)
 6.2 Professional test :
Subject Marks Pass 
Mark
Short hand and computer 
typing
100 40%

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1073
 (b) the syllabus of the Professional test
 (i) Short hand and computer typing - 
Sinhala
   t aking down in shorthand a passage 
dictated at 70 words per minute for 
five (5) minutes and computer typing 
of those notes at a speed of 7 words per 
minute.
   or
  (ii) Short hand and computer typing - 
English
   t aking down in shorthand a passage 
dictated at 80 words per minute for 
five (5) minutes and computer typing 
of those notes at a speed of 7 words per 
minute.
07. examination fee.– the fee for this examination is 
Rs.500. The examination fee should be credited to Account 
No 0071451995 of Bank of Ceylon at Pelawatta Branch 
held by the name of National Institute of Labour Studies 
and the receipt obtained upon payment of examination 
fee should be firmly pasted in the application form. The 
examination fee once paid will not be refunded under any 
circumstances. it will be useful to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt.
08.  Method of application :
 8.1 according to the specimen application 
appended at the end of this notification and 
using both sides of a 4 size paper;
 (a) the application form should be prepared 
in such a manner that item number 01-02.4 
on the first page and number 03-05 on the 
second page and number 06-09 (a) on the 
third page and the remaining numbers on 
the other page. the relevant information 
should be clearly filled by the candidate's 
own hand writing.
 (b) When preparing the application form the 
name of the examination appearing at the 
top of the application form  should be 
stated in English as well, in addittion to 
Sinhala in Sinhala medium applications. 
Application forms that do not confirm 
to the specimen, that have not been 
paid examination fee as at the due date, 
that have not been perfected accurately 
and  that are incomplete will be rejected 
without notice. candidates have to be 
borne the loss occur in not completing 
the application properly. further it would 
be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
application form. it is the responsibility 
of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfecred by himself/
herself complies with the specimen given 
in the examination notification and if not 
so the application might be rejected.
 8.2 this examination will be held on July 2017 in 
colombo only.
 8.3 the director General of the National institute 
of Labour Studies, on the prior assumption 
that have fulfilled the prescribed qualifications, 
will allow to appear for the open competitive 
Examination to the candidates those who 
have prepared the application according to the 
notification stating the required qualifications 
for the post and have forwarded the application 
form on or before the due date having paid 
prescribed examination fee. issuance of an 
admission card to a candidate should not 
be considered as the candidate has fulfilled 
the qualifications required for the post. The 
candidature of the applicant will be cancelled 
if it is revealed during the time of scrutinizing 
the qualifications in the application according 
to the Gazette notification at the interview that 
he/she has furnished false information or have 
not completed the required qualifications.
 8.4 Method of forwarding applications :
  Duly filled application forms should be sent 
under registered post to reach the director 
General of National institute of Labour 
Studies, No 267, Pannipitiya Road, Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla on or before 16.06.2017. the term 
“open competitive examination for recruitment 
to the post of stenographer in the department 
of Labour - 2017” should be mentioned on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application. it will not be responsible for 
the applications which misplaced in the post or 
received in delay.
 8.5 Signature of the applicant in the application 
should be get attested by a Principal of 
a Government school, Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-law, 
Notary Public, a Commissioned officer of 
the army, Navy or air force, a permanent 
government or local Government staff officer 
drawing a monthly salary of Rs. 28,650/- or 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1074
more or the incumbent of a Buddhist Vihara, 
a Nayake Buddhist monk, the incumbent of 
a place of worship of any other religion or a 
religious dignitary of standing of any other 
religion.
Penalty for false information.– accurate information 
should be furnished with utmost care in filling the 
application form. if it is revealed according to the rules 
of this examination that any applicant is unsuitable,                       
his/her candidature shall be cancelled before examination, 
when holding examination, after examination or at any 
time thereafter. in case it is revealed after receiving 
appointments that false information have been furnished or 
that has suppressed accurate information, he/she shall be 
liable to be dismissed from public service.
09.  Appearing for the examination. – the director 
General of National institute of Labour studies will 
issue admission cards to be received before one week of 
the day holding the examination. it will not be allowed 
to appear for the examination without such admission 
card. the candidates appearing for the examination 
should produce their signature attested admission card to 
the Chief Examiner.  A notification will be published in 
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
candidates. if the admission card is not received even after 
2 or 3 days of such advertisement, you should notify the 
director General of National institute of Labour Studies in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. It will be more 
fruitful to inform the National institute of Labour Studies 
with a certified copy of the cash receipt and the registration 
receipt which you kept with yourself.
10. one of the following documents should be produced 
to the chief Examiner in order to prove the identity of the 
candidate :–
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons,
 (b) a  valid passport.
11.  the candidates are subject to the rules imposed 
by the director General of National institute of Labour 
Studies in respect of conducting of the examination. if such 
rules are violated, he/she shall be liable for a punishment 
imposed by the director General of National institute of 
Labour Studies.
12.  the commissioner General of Labour shall make the 
final decision in respect of conducting of the examination, 
granting appointments and of all the other matters.
Note: in the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English copies of this notification, the 
Sinhala version shall prevail.
commissioner General of Labour.
department of Labour, 
Narahenpita,
colombo 05.
18th april, 2017.
(For office use)
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
the open competitive examination for the recruitment 
to the poSt of Stenographer (grade iii) in the 
department of laBour - 2017
Language medium in which appear for the examination :
Sinhala  -1
English  -2
01. 1.1 Applicant's name with initials :––––––––––.
  (English capital letters) ex.– (SiLVa. a. B. d. P. a.)
 1.2 Name in full (English capital Letters) :––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 1.4 N. i. c. No. :
 1.5 female/male
  (write the relevant No. in the box) 
  female  - 1
  male  - 0
02. 2.1 Permanent address (English capital Letters) :––––.
 2.2 Permanent address (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which admission card should be posted :
  (i) in Sinhala/t amil :––––––––––.
  (ii) in English capital letters :––––––––––.
 2.4 telephone No. :

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1075
03. married/Unmarried (Unmarried - 1 married - 2)
 (Write the relevant number in the box)
  3.2 date of birth :
   y ear : month : date :
  3.3 age as at the closing date of applications :
   y ears : months : days :
04. Educational Qualifications :
  4.1 G. c. E. (o/L) Examination
 (i) year and month of the examination :
  y ear :–––––––––.    month :–––––––––.    
 (ii) index No. :–––––––––.    
 (iii) Result :
   
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
  4.2 G. c. E. (a/L) Examination
 (i) year and month of the examination :
  y ear :–––––––––.    month :–––––––––.    
 (ii) index No. :–––––––––.    
 (iii) Result :
 
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
05. Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Course Duration Institution
06. Experience :
Name of the institution where 
trained or worked
duration
07. Have you ever been punished by a court of Law for 
any offence?
 (Put the mark P in the relevant box)
   y es   No
 if you have been punished, furnish the information on 
the offence, the court and the punishment :––––––––.
08. details on the receipt which obtained upon payment 
of examination fee :
  i. Name of the branch of the Bank of ceylon to 
which examination fee paid :–––––––––.
  ii. Receipt number and date :
   Number :–––––––––.   date :–––––––––.
  iii. amount paid :–––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly
09. Certificate of the Applicant :
 (a) i solemnly declare that the particulars furnished 
by me in this application are true and accurate 
to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear the 
loss caused by not completing some information 
and/or completing erroneously the application. 
furthermore, i declare that all the information 
stated herein have been completed accurately.
 (b) i shall abide by the rules imposed by the director 
General of the National institute of Labour 
Studies in respect of conducting the examination 
and if it is reveal that i am ineligible according 
the conditions this examination, i shall agree 
to accept the decision taken to cancel my 
candidature before or after the examination.
 (c) i know that if it is proved that this declaration 
made by me is false, i shall be unsuitable to 
receive the appointment and be subject to be 
dismissed from the service even after receiving 
the appointment.
 (d) i shall not change later any information stated 
herein.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1076
10. attestation of the signature of the applicant :
 i, hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ...............................
who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on ...............................
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Name of the Attesting officer
  Signature and official Frank
 
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attesting officer :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
05-210
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT 
Notary's Preliminary Examination- 2016/2017
it is hereby notify that the examination for recuiting 
artialed clerks to train for the post of Notary in Sinhala and 
tamil mediums, will be held on the august of 2017. the 
town and number of the town in which the applicant wishes 
to sit the examination as per Schedule 01 shall be indicated 
as first and second choice on the order of preference 
candidates are not allowed to change the town in which 
they apply to sit the examination. at the instances where 
the number of candidates apply for a certain town, is not 
sufficient to maintain an examination centre, they will be 
directed to the town which they have indicated as second 
preference. If there is not sufficient number of candidates 
even  at the second centre, the candidates will be directed to 
an adjoining city. However the commissioner General of 
Examination shall take action to conduct the examination 
only at Colombo if it is found that there is no sufficient 
number of applicants at all ar most of examination centers.
2. (i) Examination is will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examination and 
candidates are bound by the rules prescribe by 
him.
  (ii) the rule enacted for candidates have been 
published by the Gazette and breach of this 
rules prescribe by commissioner General of 
Examinations is a punishable act.
3. Hundred appointments will be made by Hon. minister 
of Home affairs, according to the result of the examination 
base on districts and ratio of ethnicity.
4. Qualification :
 I. Education Qualifications-
         the candidate shall have passed-
 (i) at least six subjects including mathematics, 
English, Sinhala or tamil at the G.c.E(o/L) 
Examination is not more than two sittings 
with credit passes for any three of those 
subjects and
 (ii) three subjects (excluding the genral test) at 
the G.c.E(a/L) Examination in one sitting
 II.  Other Qualifications-
         the candidate Shall-
 (i) be a Sri Lanka citizen
 (ii) be not be less than 20 years and not more 
than 50 years of age to the closing date of 
application
	 •	 Hence, the candidates whose Birth date 
is on or before 12.06.1997 and birth date 
on or after 12.06.1967 is legible to sit for 
the examination.
    (iii) have an excellent character.
    (iv) be of adequate physical and mental capacity 
to discharge the dutites of the profession.
   (v) not be convicted of any criminal offence by a 
court of Law.
5. Applications.- Headings 1-3 should be appeared in 
1
st page and other should be appeared in page 3 and 4. 
application shall be submitted in the language in which 
the candidate intends to practice and  shall be in his own 
hand writing. the title of the examination appearing in 
the specimen should be indicated in English language  
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application forms. 
as incomplete applications and applications which are 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen from will 
be rejected without any notice, pleace double check the 
application whether duly filled, prepared according to the 
specimen and affixed the receipt and entered the details. 
it may useful to retain photocopies of the application and 
Receipt by the candidate.
  
(i) application should be sent by post on or before 12.06.2017 
to the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization  & foreign Examination Branch, 
department of Examinations, P.B  1503,  and  colombo. 
Notary's Preliminary Examination-2016/2017" should 
be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope containing the application.
(ii) Penalty for furnishing false information- the 
candidate should be very careful to include the 
correct particulars  in the application . if it is 
found that any candidate is not eligible according 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1077
to the rules and regulations of this examination 
his/her candidature can be cancelled at any time 
before, during or after the examination. further, 
if it is found that any information furnished by a 
candidate is false he/she is liable to dismissal at 
any time from the post of Notary.
6. the examination fee of Rs. 500 should be paid 
before the closing date of applications at any Post Office/
Sub  Post Office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-
02-13 of commissioner General of  Examinations. the 
receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of 
the application so as not to be detached. a photo copy of 
the receipt should be kept for further reference. Under no 
circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and 
money orders and stamps are not accepted.
7. a candidate shall be required to prove his identiy at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject he offers. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted:
 (a)  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons:
 (b)  a  valid passport.
7.1 Candidate's signature in both Application and 
admission should be attested. in case the 
applicant is from a institution, the Head of the 
Institution or power delegated officer should 
have attested or otherwise attested by a Principal/
Retired officer, of a Government School, Grama 
Niladhari of the division, a Justice of the 
peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney –at-
Law, Notary public, Commissioned Officer in 
the Armed Forces or an Officer holding a Staff 
Grade post in Public/Provincial Service or chief 
incumbent of Buddhist temple or Head clergy 
of any other Religious place in the Police Service 
or an Officer holding a permanent whose annual 
initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
7.2 the attested admission should be hand over the 
admission card to the supervisor on the same day 
he presents himself for the examination.
8. candidates are subjected to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
on conducting the examination and they are liable to be 
subjected to a punishment imposed by him/her for breach 
of these rules.
9. commissioner General or Examinations will send the 
admission cards by post to the candidates of. a paper notice 
will be published by the department of Examinations once 
the admission issued. a candidate, who does not receive 
the adimission card within 2 to 3 days should be notified 
to the department of examinations with the copy of the 
application, copy receipt that paid the exam fees, copy 
of receipt that register the envelop with,full name and 
address of the candidate , identity card No. and Name of 
the Examination.
if the candidate is out of colombo, mentioning a fax 
number along with the other details and fax the request 
letter to the given number in the notice will be benefitted to 
obtain the copy of admission soon, in such instance, copies 
of the letter of request and the registration receipt should be 
retained with the candidate
Note.– the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
10. this examination will be held in Sinhala/t amil 
medium and no candidate will be allowed to change the 
medium of language indicated in his/her application.
(11) 11.1 Examination procedure :
Ref.
No.
Subject marks time Subject 
No.
01 mathematical 
Skills
100 02 01
02 comprehension 100 02 02
03 General 
Knowledge
100 01 03
11.2 Syllabus/Structure of the paper :
Name of the 
paper
Syllabus
mathematical 
Skills
the Question paper is designed to 
measure the mathematical ability of 
G.c.E(o/L) answers should be given 
to all questions
comprehension the question paper is designed to test 
the Candidate's knowledge of Language 
Skills and Grammar the ability of 
essay writing, summarization of a 
given passage, answering the question 
from given  passage, grammatical 
correcting of given incorrect sentence 
and combining given sentences together 
is measured.
answers should be given to all questions
General 
Knowledge
the paper consists of with 50 multiple 
choice questions and short answer type 
questions related to important current 
affairs on the fields of economic, 
Social, Cultural Political, Scientific 
affairs Sports, Health, Legal and , 
locally internationally
answers should be given to all 
questions

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1078
12. Registrar General Department or Department of 
Examination do not conduct any Course or Seminar for this 
exam and Registrar General's Department or Department 
of Examinations will not take any responsibility of the 
Courses or Seminars conducted by any other institutes.
13. Candidates should score at least forty percent (40%) 
of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
14. Result of the examination based on the language 
that candidate sits for the examination together with the 
application will be sent to the Registrar General indicating 
the order of merit, by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations
1. Commissioner General of examinations will send the 
results of all candidates by post or publish the results by 
web site www.results.exams.gov.lk.
15. An interview will be held by the Registrar General 
to examine the eligibility of the selected candidate.
16. The Registrar General shall, select the required 
number of candidates to be articled clerks, depending 
on the result of the competitive examination, and issue a 
license to each candidate to serve as an articled clerk to an 
attorney-at-Law of the supreme court.
17. This examination notification will be published in 
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
Final decision related to the regulations of holding this 
examination will be taken by the Registrar General.
18. An matter not provided for in this notification 
will be dealt with as determind by the Registrar General. 
Candidates are bound by the rules prescribe in the Gazette 
for conducting the examination.
 Neil De Alwis,
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General's Department,
Battaramulla,
28th day of 
April, 2017.
NoTARy’S PRELimiNARy  ExAmiNATioN - 2016(2017)
medium : 
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)   
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
* m ention the Town and No. of the applicant as given 
in the Gazette . (refer the Schedule 1 to see the towns 
which the examination centers will be situated)
Town Town No.
1
2
Race :  Sinhala - 1 muslim - 4
 Sri Lankan Tamil - 2 Burgher - 5
 indian Tamil - 3 o ther - 6
01. 1.1 Name with initials using initials to end ( in 
English Block letters) :––––––––––.
  Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, m. G. B. S. K. 
 1.2 Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in English block letters) :–––––––.
 1.4 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Permanent address ( in English Block letters) 
:––––––––––.
 2.2 District of permanent residence :––––––––––.
  (mention the number according 
  to the Schedule i)
 2.3 m ailing address of admission ( in English block 
letters) :––––––––––.
03.  National identity Card No. : 
04.  Sex (Write the relevant number in the box) : 
  Female - 1,  male - 0
05. Date of Birth :  
 y ear :  month :  Date : 
   5.1 Age at 12.06.2017 :
    y ears :  m onths :  Days :
06.  Telephone Number : 
07. i intend to serve as an articled clerk under mr.  ……….. 
................. Attorney-at-Law of the supreme Court :            
–––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1079
08. the zone and the language in which i purpose to 
practice are ……………………… (Zone) and ………. 
(language) respectively :––––––––––.
09. Examination fees : 
(i) Office paid 
examination fee
: ………………………
(ii) Receipt No. and 
date
: ………………………
(iii) amount paid : ………………………
Affix the receipt not to be removed. 
Keeping a copy of the receipt will be beneficial
10. i do honorably certify that the particulars furnished by 
me in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i agree to accept the disadvantage 
occurs due to any incompletion of any part of here and 
to fill incompletely the application. Further state that 
the each part of here, accurately completed. 
11. I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to 
dismissal after appointment, if this statement declared 
by me is found to be false. 
12. further i declare that i am bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to conduct of this examination 
and issuing results. 
13. any information stipulated here will not be changed. 
14. Signature of the applicant. 
 date :––––––––––.
Attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss …………………………….. 
who forwards this application is personally known to me 
and he/she has paid the relevant examination fee and the 
receipt is affixed in the application. He/she signed this 
document on ……………………… 2014 before me. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester. 
date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Official Frank)
Schedule i
town and town Nos. of the Examination centers
 Town Town No. 
colombo  01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
Hambanthota 09
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
Vavnia 12
mulative 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
05-404
––––––––––––––––
amENdmENt 
ministry of Public Administration and management 
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers 
in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific 
Service, Sri Lanka Architects’ Service, Sri 
Lanka Accountants’ Service and Sri Lanka 
Planning Service - 2016(II) and Second Efficiency 
Bar examination for Officers in Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants’ 
Service, Sri Lanka Planning Service - 2017(I)
PARA 12.8.3 (III), Para. 14.2 of the notification of the above 
Efficiency Bar Examination published in the Gazette dated 
12.04.2017 and Para. 13 of the English notification of the 
said Gazette shall be revised in the following manner. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1080
 (i) Para. 12.8.3 (III) of the examination notification shall be revised in the following manner. III. Current 
international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy (Subject No. 23). (100 marks)
  current international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy (answers have to be given 
on topics which have a timely relevance to emerging world economic conditions). 
 
  Note.- the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 (ii) The following table shall be substituted for the table included in Para. 14.2 of the examination notification. 
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 The New Service Minute No. 1842/2 dated 
23.12.2013
01 Law (First Efficiency Bar Examination) Law (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
02 Administration (First Efficiency Bar Examination) Administration (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
03 Economics or Sociology (First Efficiency Bar 
Examination)
Economics and Sociology (First Efficiency Bar 
Examination)
04 Public Sector financial management (Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination)
Public Sector financial management and 
Procurement process (First Efficiency Bar 
Examination)
05 English (First Efficiency Bar Examination) Link (English) Language Proficiency (Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination)
06 Economic and Social Policy (Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination)
Economic and Social Policy (Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination)
07 development administration Process (Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination)
development administration Process (Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination)
08 management and organization methods (Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination)
Use of information and communication technology 
for management (Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination)
 (iii) Serial No. 9 of the examination timetable indicated in Para. 13 of the English notification shall be revised 
in the following manner. 
09 2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers of 
Sri Lanka Planning Service
techniques of development 
Planning
21 16.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 
Basic macro Economics 22 22.07.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
current international 
Economic crises and their 
impact on Sri Lankan 
Economy
23 22.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
Note : 
 (a) The closing date of applications for Second Efficiency Bar Examination - 2017(I) for officers in Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service, Sri Lanka Planning Service shall be extended up 
to 29.05.2017 due to these revisions. 
 (b) The officers who appear for the second time  shall follow the instructions below in respect of the payment 
of examination fees. 
 (i) Provisions for payment of examination fees mentioned in Para. 6 of the Examination Notification 
in relation to the officers who sat for this examination previously shall be applied further and 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.05.2017
1081
accordingly a candidate, who has applied for one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination, 
is required to pay an additional examination fee of Rs. 500 if he applies for another subject due to 
this revision. 
 (ii) Since a candidate, who has applied for several subjects in the Second Efficiency Bar Examination 
has paid an examination fee of Rs. 1,000 as per the previous examination notification, such candidate 
is not required to pay an additional examination fee, if he applies for one or other several subjects of 
this examination due to this revision. 
 (c) A candidate who has already applied for the Second Efficiency Bar Examination - 2017(I) as shall download 
an admission for the second time. the admission downloaded for the second time is valid for sitting the 
examination. 
 (d) the contact No. 011 5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of development administration is available from 8.30 
a. m. up to 4.15 p. m. on working days of the week up to 29.05.2017 if any inquiry is to be made in this 
regard. 
 (e) the dates of the examination shall not be changed due to these revisions. 
 J. J. 
rathnaSiri, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Public administration and management. 
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
04th may, 2017.
05-576
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.