

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1871$18 - 2014 cQ,s ui 15 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2014'07'15
No. 1871/18 - TUESDAY ,   JULY   15,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
P.S. No.  CSA/7/8/15.
BY  HIS  EXCELLENCY  MAHINDA  RAJAPAKSA  PRESIDENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA.
To :
1. Maxwell Parakrama Paranagama Esquire
2. Madam Dimingu Badathuruge Priyanthi Suranjana Vidyaratne
3. Madam Mano Ramanathan
Greetings :
WHEREAS, the Report of the Commission of Inquiry on Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation (LLRC) dated 15th
November, 2011 in Chapter 9 entitled Principal Observations and Recommendations contains several recommendations of the
Commission framed within its mandate ;
WHEREAS, I have already set in motion a number of initiatives to address the several concerns arising from the
internal armed conflict, such as, the Parliamentary Select Committee ; The Commission on Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation;
The programme for Rehabilitation of non-state actors to the conflict ; The National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the
Recommendations of the LLRC ; The National Action Plan for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights ; The Courts of
Inquiry and the Board of Inquiry established under the provisions of the Army Act ;
WHEREAS, following these initiatives, outstanding progress is being achieved by the institutional mechanisms set
up under the above initiatives as well as by all Government Ministries and Departments, to give effect to the recommendations
of the LLRC ;
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 Seal

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2014
2A
WHEREAS, in a spirit of compassion and the larger interest of national reconciliation, peace and harmony among all
the people of Sri Lanka, I have secured the rehabilitation and resettlement of thousands of former combatants of the LTTE and
brought them into the mainstream of national life ; returned over 3500 child soldiers of the LTTE to their parents and provided
them with opportunities to pursue their education and fulfill their potential as peaceful citizens of Sri Lanka ; and encouraged
several leaders of the LTTE to publicly denounce and abandon violence and persuaded them to join the mainstream of political
life in the country to work together within a democratic framework, to develop the country and collectively find peaceful
solutions to the country's political, social and economic challenges ;
WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is in the interest of public welfare to make further inquiries into serveral other
matters specifically and generally referred to in the Report of the LLRC which require further inquiry,
NOW THEREFORE I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do in pursuance
of the provisions of Section 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), by these presents extend the scope of the
mandate of the Commission of Inquiry appointed vide Gazette Notification 1823/42 dated 15th August 2013, to inquire and
report on the following matters that have been referred to in the Report of the LLRC, namely :
A. The matters referred in paragraph 4.359 of the Report of the LLRC. In this connection, the Commission is
hereby required to investigate and report on the following specific issues :
i. The principal facts and circumstances that led to the loss of civilian life during the internal armed conflict
that ended on the 19th May 2009, and whether any person, group or institution directly or indirectly
bears responsibility in this regard by reason of a violation or violations of international humanitarian law
or international human rights law.
ii. Whether such loss of civilian life is capable of constituting collateral damage of a kind that occurs in the
prosecution of proportionate attacks against targeted military objectives in armed conflicts and is expressly
recognized under the laws of armed conflict and international humanitarian law, and whether such civilian
casualties were either the deliberate or unintended consequence of the rules of engagement during the
said armed conflict in Sri Lanka.
iii. The adherence to or neglect of the principles of distinction, military necessity and proportionality under
the laws of armed conflict and international humanitarian law, by the Sri Lankan armed forces.
iv. Whether the LTTE as a non-state actor was subject to international humanitarian law in the conduct of its
military operations.
v. The use by the LTTE of civilians as human shields and the extent to which such action constitutes a
violation of international humanitarian law or international human rights law, and did or may have
significantly contributed to the loss of civilian life.
B. The recruitment of child soldiers by the LTTE or illegal armed groups-affiliated with the LTTE or any political
party in violation of international humanitarian law or international human rights law.
C. International criminal activities of the LTTE and the application of financial and other resources obtained
through such illegal activities in the prosecution of the conventional and guerilla war in Sri Lanka by the
LTTE.
D. The suicide attacks by LTTE using child soldiers and other combatants under the direct orders of the leader
of the LTTE, Velupillai Prabhakaran or any persons acting on his behalf, and the culpability for such actions
under international humanitarian law or international human rights law.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2014
3A
AND WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is expendient that the said Commission of Inquiry should have the benefit
of the advice of distinguished international experts, whose internationally recognized expertise and experience encompasses
legal and other relevant dimensions of the matters set out above. I hereby appoint the following to serve on an Advisory
Council to the Commission of Inquiry to which I may appoint other experts as may be required from time to time, to advise the
Chairman and Members of the Commission of Inquiry, at their request, on matters pertaining to the work of the Commission :
1. The Right Honourable Sir Desmond de Silva, QC (Chairman)
2. Sir Geoffrey Nice, QC
3. Prof. David Crane
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 14th day of July, Two
Thousand and Fourteen.
By Order of His Excellency,
L
ALITH WEERATUNGA,
Secretary to the President.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.