

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA TEA BOARD (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 29 OF 2003
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 15th October, 2003]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 17, 2003

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 29 of 2003
Short title.
2—H 019154—5,650 (07/2003)
[Certified on 15th October, 2003]
L.D.—O. 15/99.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  SRI  LANKA  TEA  BOARD  LAW ,
N O . 14 OF  1975
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Tea Board
(Amendment) Act, No. 29  of 2003.
2. Section 4 of the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of
1975, (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is
hereby amended as follows :—
(1) in paragraph (l) of that section by the substitution
for the words “marketing of tea ; and” of the words
“marketing of tea ;”;
(2) in paragraph (m ) of that section by the substitution
for the words “of the tea industry in Sri Lanka” of
the words “of the tea industry in Sri Lanka ;”; and
(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (m ) of
that section of the following new paragraphs :—
“(n) to prepare manuals containing information
relating to the various schemes provided for
under this Law ;
(o) to enter into agreements for co-operation with
other institutions, whether in Sri Lanka or
abroad, having objects wholly or partly
similar to those of the Board, for the
furtherance of their common objects ;
(p) to advise the Minister on policies relating to
the tea industry ;
Amendment of
section 4 of Law,
No. 14 of 1975.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 29 of 2003
(q) to promote investment in the tea industry ;
and
(r) to collect and disseminate data on the tea
industry.”.
3. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :-
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following
subsection :—
“(1) The Board shall consist of—
(a) a person appointed by the Minister, who
shall be the Chairman (hereinafter
referred to as “the Chairman”) ;
(b) the following nominated members
appointed by the Minister, namely :—
(i) a representative of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance, nominated by
that Minister ;
(ii) a representative of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Trade, nominated by
that Minister ;
(iii) two representatives of the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Plantation Industries,
nominated by that Minister ;
(iv) a representative of the Tea Small
Holding Development Authority,
nominated by that Authority ;
Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 29 of 2003
(v) a representative of the Private  Tea
Factory Owners’ Association,
nominated by that Association in
consultation with the Tea
Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;
(vi) a representative of the Planters’
Association of Ceylon
established by the Planters’
Association of Ceylon Ordinance
(Chapter 291), nominated by that
Association in consultation with
the Tea Association of Sri Lanka
(TASL) ;
(vii) a representative of the Sri Lanka
Federation of Tea Small Holdings
Development Societies,
nominated by that Federation in
consultation with the Tea
Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;
(viii) a representative of the Tea
Exporters’ Association,
nominated by that Association in
consultation with the Tea
Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;
(ix) a representative of the Colombo
Tea Traders’ Association,
nominated by that Association in
consultation with the Tea
Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;
(x) a representative of the Colombo
Brokers’ Association, nominated
by that Association in
consultation with the Tea
Association of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 29 of 2003
(xi) two members representing Trade
Unions, which shall be selected
on such criteria as may be
determined by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Plantation
Industries .
For the purposes of this
paragraph “Trade Union” shall
have the same meaning as in the
Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter
138).” ;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the
substitution therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(3) The Chairman and the nominated members
of the Board shall hold office for a term of five years,
but shall be eligible for renomination.”;
(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the omission of
the words “with the concurrence of the Prime
Minister”;
(4) in subsection (5) of that section, by the omission of
the words “with the concurrence of the Prime
Minister”; and
(5) in subsection (6) of that section, by the omission of
the words “with the concurrence of the Prime
Minister.”.
4. The members of the Board holding office on the day
immediately preceeding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall continue to hold office as such until such time the
Board is re-constituted under section 6 of the principal
enactment as amended by this Act.
5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Transitional
provision.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Tea Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 29 of 2003
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.