

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1993
1993
wxl 1"677 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'10'21
No. 1,677 – THURSDAY , OCTOBER 21, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1995
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th October, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The List of Jurors and Special Jurors  (Sinhala and English Medium only) in Balapitiya Judicial Zone has been published in Par t
VI of this Gazette under the same Gazette Number and date of publication.
Part II of the Gazette No. 1,676 of 15.10.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1994
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1995
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  NATIONAL  LANGUAGES  AND
SOCIAL  INTEGRATION
National Institute of Language Education and Training
(Established by Act, No. 20 of 2007)
AN IDEAL OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN NA TIONAL AND
FOREIGN LANGUAGES IN NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE
IN order to provide National and International job opportunities for
younger generation of our country, National Institute of Language
Education and Training has organized various languages courses
targeting basic communicative skills.
Course Duration
Tamil Language 4 months
English Language 4 months
Korean Language 4 months
Italy Language 4 months
German Language 4 months
French Language 4 months
Japanese Language 4 months
If you wish to follow any of above courses please send your
application on or before 30th of October mentioning the course you
applied for on the left hand corner of the envelope by registered post
to Director General, National Institute of Language Education and
Training, No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road, Rajagiriya.
All courses will be conducted in our regional centre Kurunegala.
Course fee Rs. 8,000 - 10,000 only for further details : 011-2883724,
034-3942683.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
NAME OF THE COURSE
1. Name :–––––––––.
2. Personal Address :–––––––––.
3. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
4. Telephone Numbers : Home :–––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––.
5. Educational Qualification :–––––––––.
6. Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
I agree the rules and regulations of the course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
10–745
MINISTRY  OF  NATIONAL  LANGUAGES  AND
SOCIAL  INTEGRATION
National Institute of Language Education and Training
DIPLOMA  IN TRANSLATION  STUDIES
A unique opportunity lies ahead of you to embark on a great career
in Translation Studies and Interpretation. One year Diploma in
Translation Studies has been organized by the Ministry of National
Languages and Social Integration in order to fulfil the government's
foremost need to fill the dearth of translators and create opportunities
for Self-Employment for youth who have the interest in language
studies.
Applicants should be under 25 years possessing Sinhala or Tamil
or English at Advanced Level with three subjects and credit pass at
the G . C. E. O/L in Sinhala or Tamil or English or literature.
Participants will be selected on the basis of Language Aptitude
Test and will receive a four months Residential Training Course in
Translation Theory and Methodology at the National Institute of
Language Education and Training, Agalawatta.
The trainees will work on a project for a period of 2 months and
will serve an internship period of 6 months. Participants who
successfully complete the one year course, will be awarded a Diploma
in Translations and there will be opportunities for successful candidate
to work as Translators in Private and Government Institutes. In
addition they will also be given a license to be involved in the
profession of translations.
The course fee is Rs. 50,000. However, the participants will pay
only 20% of the course fee, the rest will be subsidized by the Institute.
The Institute will also provide residential facilities free of charge
while students will bear the expenses for food during the 4 months
period at Agalawatta.
A specimen application form is given below. Please complete the
form and send it under registered post to :
Director General,
National Institute of Language Education and Training,
Ministry of National Languages and Social Integration,
1st Floor,
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road,
Rajagiriya.
A
PPLICA TION FORM
01. Name :–––––––––.
02. Personal Address :–––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
04. Contact No.  : Home :–––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1996
05. Preferred medium for placement test :–––––––––.
06. Educational Qualification G . C. E. O/L and A/L :–––––––––.
07. Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
(Please attach the copies of certificates.)
If I'm selected I'll agree with the terms and conditions of the
course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
10–746
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade
III of The Sri Lanka Foreign Service – 2010
AN examination for the selection of suitable candidates for recruitment
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service (hereinafter referred to
as the "Service") will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations.
02. Scheme and Date of the Examination.– The examination will
be held in 02 parts :–
Part I – Written Examination :– Part I is a written examination
which will consist of question papers in the following
subjects and will be held in Colombo in February, 2011.
(i) General Paper ;
(ii) World Affairs I (Political) ;
(iii) World Affairs II (Economic) ;
(iv) Essay ;
(v) Precis ;
(vi) Aptitude and General Knowledge (Multiple Choice
Questions).
Part II – Viva-voce :
Only candidates who have sat for all six papers of the written
examination, have obtained minimum marks of 40% for
each subject and the aggregate marks at or above the cut off
point to be determined by the Secretary/External Affairs,
which will be not less than 330 marks, shall be called for
the viva voce, provided however the number of candidates
to be called shall not exceed five times the number of
vacancies to be filled. The viva voce will carry 100 marks.
Under no circumstances, shall the minimum aggregate cut-
off marks be lowered.
03. Conditions of Service :
(a) The candidates who are selected on the results of this
examination will be appointed to Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Foreign Service in terms of the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service and the
terms and conditions set out in the Sri Lanka Foreign
Service Minute 2001, subject to any amendments that
may have been made or will be made hereafter to that
Minute.
(b) The post is permanent and pensionable.
04. Salary Structure (Monthly).– The applicable salary code for
this post is SL-1-2006 of the Public Administration Circular No. 6/
2006. The applicable salary scale is as follows :
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
(i) The Foreign Service Officers of Grade III are required to
pass Three Efficiency Bar Examinations before reaching
the following monthly salary points :–
* First Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point
of Rs. 24,870.
* Second Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point
of Rs. 27,450.
* Third Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point
of Rs. 31,965.
(ii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular 20/2001,
officers are required to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination within 3 years of the appointment and 2nd
Efficiency Bar Examination within 06 years of the
appointment.
(iii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular 7/2007,
officers who are recruited to the public service should
gain proficiency in the official language/s, other than the
language he/she was recruited to the service within 05
years of the appointment.
05. Health and Character. – The candidate must satisfy the
Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs that he/she is of sound health
and that he/she has an excellent moral character. He/she should be
physically fit for service in any part of the world. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a special medical examination.
06. Eligibility.– A candidate must –
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) have obtained a degree from,
(i) a recognized University in Sri Lanka ; or
(ii) a foreign University recognized by the University
Grants Commission of Sri Lanka (UGC).
Documentary proof to this effect issued by the UGC
should be submitted by the candidate at the time of
viva voce.
(c) have attained the age of 22 years and have not attained the
age of 30 years on the closing date of applications. In case
of a candidate who is already in the Public Service, such a
candidate must not have attained the age of 40 years on

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1997
the closing date of applications and should possess a
satisfactory record of service.
Notes : (i) For the purpose of clause 6(c) a candidate in
the Public Service means (as defined in
Chapter I of the Establishments Code) any
officer who has been confirmed in the Public
Service Central Government Service and the
Provincial Public Service by the closing date
of application.
(ii) A candidate in the Public Service will not be
eligible to sit this examination unless he/she
has had a satisfactory record of service during
the 05 years immediately preceding the
closing date of application or if the period of
service is less than 05 years during the total
period of service with the Government.
(iii) A member of the Public Service will be
considered to have a satisfactory record of
service only if he/she has earned on the due
date, all increments within the 05 years
immediately preceding the closing date of
application or if the period of service is less
than 05 years during the total period of his/
her service in the respective institution and
has not suffered any punishment whatsoever
(except a warning) in respect of any offences
committed during the period as mentioned
above.
(iv) Applicants in the Public Service should send
their applications through their respective
Heads of Departments/Institutions.
07. Fees for the examination .– The fee for the examination is
Rs. 1,000.
This fee should be paid before the closing date of applications at
the nearest District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat and credited
to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The receipt issued for the payment
should be attached to the application (Keeping a photocopy of the
receipt will be useful.)
Note.– A candidate who withdraws himself/herself or is absent
from the examination for any reason whatsoever or havng
sat for the examination is found to be ineligible, shall not
be entitled to a refund of the whole or portion of the
examination fee.
08. Method of Application :–
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be on a sheet of
paper 8.5" x 11.6" (A-4 size) using both sides of the paper.
Column 1 - 7 should be prepared in the first page and the
other columns in the 2nd and 3rd pages. The form should
be filled in by the candidate's own hand writing.
The applications which are not according to the specimen
application form and the applications which are not duly
completed will be rejected without any notification.
Keeping a photocopy of the application will be useful.
The applications should be forwarded according to the
specimen application form and otherwise they will be
rejected. When preparing the application name of the
Examination in the heading of the application should be in
English for Sinhalese and Tamil applications.
(b) The application should be in the language medium in which
the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application for the examination must be
sent by registered post to the Commissioner-General of
Examinations. Department of Examinations (Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch), Pelawatte, Battaramulla,
so as to reach him on or before 22nd November, 2010. The
top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should bear clearly the words "Open
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Foreign Service – 2010" and English letter
"S" should be clearly indicated within a cage (2cm x 2cm)
on the top of the left side of the envelope. No application
received after this date will be accepted.
(d) Any application which is not complete in every respect is
liable to be rejected. No claim that an application has been
lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(e) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
pubilshed in the newspapers as soon as Admission Cards
are issued. Applicants are advised to be on the look out for
such a notice.
(f) If admission cards are not received even after 2-3 days of
the paper notice, the applicant should inform the
Department of Examinations as specified in the notice. It
is more effective to send the certified copies of the
application, cash receipt and the registered post receipt
along with a fax number to fax the admission card if you
are living outside Colombo.
09. Admissions to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to those applicants who are eligible.
A candidate presenting himself/herself for the
examination must produce his/her attested admission
card to the supervisor of the examination center. A
candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card
will not be permitted to sit the Examination.
Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations
on examinations procedures imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
A candidate, in case of violation of such law, shall be
subject to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1998
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate
should surrender to the supervisor of the hall, the
admission card relevant to the hall, on the first day of
his/her presenting himself/herself for the examination
at the hall. A set of rules to be observed by all
candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note.– Issuance of admission card to a candidate does
not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite
qualifications in the Gazette Notification.
10. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If candidate is found
to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled, at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by the candidate are found to be false within his/her
knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact,
he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Language of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(b) A candidate can sit the examination in one of the three
languages mentioned above. However, the candidate must
sit all the question papers in one language of his/her choice.
Please note that the medium in which the candidate applied
for the examination cannot be changed.
13. Method of Testing :
(a) Part I - Written Examination : This will consist of following
six (06) question papers :
Subject Subject Duration Marks
No.
01 General Paper 3 hours 100
02 World Affairs I 3 hours 100
03 World Affairs II 3 hours 100
04 Essay 3 hours 100
05 Précis 1 hour 100
06 Aptitude and
General Knowledge 1 hour and 40 minutes 100
Syllabus for Written Examination :
(i) General Paper - This question paper is designed to test
the candidate's knowledge of the political, social, cultural
and economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current
national and international interest as well as scientific and
technological developments.
(ii) World Affairs I - This paper will consist of questions on
current global political developments, the United Nations
and other International/Intergovernmental Organizations,
conflict situations and development of various national
and international movements, in order to ascertain the
candidate's ability to analyze global trends for peace,
security and development and their impact on Sri Lanka.
(iii) World Affairs II - This paper will consist of questions on
recent trends in trade and economic development including
the role played by International/Intergovernmental
Organizations, the impact of regional economic groupings,
issues such as environment and sustainable development
and their relevance to Sri Lanka.
(iv) Essay - An essay to be written on one or more specified
subjects. These subjects will not be related to any subject
field of study but will be designed to test the candidate's
general knowledge and intelligence and his/her general
ability both in powers of thinking and expression. The
essay will be judged by the degree of thoughtfulness and
originality in its treatment of the subject as well as by its
language, style and presentation. It must be clearly and
legibly written.
Note.– The attention of candidates is drawn to the
importance of relevance and legibility. Credit will
be given to careful examination of the subject to the
degree of analytical thinking, the quality of writing
and ability to express oneself concisely and clearly.
(v) Précis – This paper is designed to test the candidate's
ability to grasp the meaning of a given passage and to
express it effectively and concisely.
(vi) Aptitude and General Knoweldge – This question paper
will be in two parts, comprising the following sections,
each in the form of multiple choice questions.
* Intelligence Quotient (IQ) – To assess the powers of
logical reasoning and analytical ability of the candidate.
* General Knowledge and Current Affairs – To test the
candidate's knowledge of current developments in
the political, economic and Socio-cultural Fields, both
local and international.
14. Viva Voce.– The candidates will be interviewed on matters of
general interest. The objective of the interview is to assess his/her
suitability for the service for which he/she is entering. The board will
attach particular importance to his/her intelligence and mental
alertness, his/her strength of character and his/her potential qualities
of leadership. A candidate's proficiency in other languages, higher
educational qualifications and computer skills etc. will also be assessed
at the interview.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
1999
15. Method of selection for appointment. – The selection for
appointment will be made on the total aggregate of marks obtained at
the written examination and the viva-voce taken together. The final
selection for appointment will be made by the Secretary/External
Affairs.
16. Any matter not provided for in this Gazette Notification will
be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the Ministry of
External Affairs. The Secretary of the Ministry of External Affairs
reserves the right to fill these vacancies, wholly or partly or not to
fill any vacancy.
C. R. J
AYASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
On 07th day of October, 2010.
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA
FOREIGN SERVICE – 2010
(For office use only)
Medium of examination :
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
01. (i) ( a) Last name with initials (in English block capitals) :
––––––––.
Example : SUMANASIRI, B. A.
(b) Last name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :
–––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private (In English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
(ii) Official :–––––––––.
(iii) Telephone Nos. : (Official) :–––––––––.
Residence :–––––––––.
03. Sex :
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Male - 0, Female - 1)
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. (i) Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age on the closing date of application :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
06. Nationality :
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4,
Others - 5)
07. Whether married or single :
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Single - 1, Married - 2)
08. State the year/years in which you have sat for the examination
for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service :
(i) –––––––––––––
(ii) –––––––––––––
(iii) –––––––––––––
09. Are you a graduate holding a post in the Public Service. If so,
state the name of the post :–––––––––.
10. Details of the University Degree (Please read paragraph 7(i) and
7(ii) of the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified
in this respect) :
(i) Name of the University :–––––––––.
(ii) Degree :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of award :–––––––––.
(iv) General/Special :–––––––––.
(v) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vi) Class :–––––––––.
11. If you have any other academic/professional qualifications
(postgraduate degree/diploma, certificates in foreign langauges
etc.) Please give details below :–––––––––.
12. I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed the
receipt No. ............... dated ............... being payment of the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is
found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this
examination.
Please paste the payment receipt here
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
2000
13. (Only for candidates already in the Public Service and the
Provincial Public Service)
Certificate of the Head of Department/Institution
I have ascertained that during 5 years/.......... years preceding
........... 2010. Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................... has (a) earned all his/her
increments. ( b) not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning).
–––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS
Department of Technical Education and Training
COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT OF POSTS IN LECTURER CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF
THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCA TION SERVICE – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following posts of Lecturer Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service for
the under mentioned Colleges of Technology purviewed under the Department of Technical Education and Training.
Colleges of Technology :
1. College of Technology Maradana
2. College of Technology Galle
3. College of Technology Kurunegala
4. College of Technology Kandy
5. College of Technology Badulla
6. College of Technology Anuradhapura
7. College of Technology Ampara
8. College of Technology Jaffna
9. College of Technology Ratnapura
Particulars of posts :
Posts No. Post Medium of Teaching
01 Lecturer (Civil Engineering) English
02 Lecturer (Electrical Engineering) English
03 Lecturer (Welding Technology) English
04 Lecturer (Automobile Technology) English
05 Lecturer (Jewellery Designing Technology) English
06 Lecturer (Bio Medical Equipments Technology) English
07 Lecturer (Farm Machinery Technology) English
08 Lecturer (Information and Communication Technology) English
09 Lecturer (Information and Tele Communication Technology) English
Application should be prepared according to specimen with No. 01 to 06 appearing in 1st page, No. 07 to 12 in 2nd page and
remains in 3rd page and include relevant particulars clearly in candidates own hand writing and in the language medium of the examination.
The application, which non compliance with the specimen application and include incomplete particulars will be rejected without inform.
It will be useful to keep a photocopy of an application. Applicants should check whether the perfected application is in confor mity with
the specimen application setout in the examination notification otherwise the application is liable to be rejected.
When preparing an application the name of the examination, mentioned in the heading, should be written in English in addition to
Sinhala in the Sinhala Applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil Applications.
Applications on form, a specimen of which is given below should be sent under registered cover to reach the "Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training, P . O. Box 557, Colombo 10" on or before 15.11.2010. The envelope enclosing the
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct
and he/she has paid the relevant examination fees and attached the
cash receipt herein.
This officer if selected could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and
Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
10–844

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
2001
application should be marked "Lecturer Posts in Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service" on the top left hand
corner. Candidates applying for more than one post should send the application indicating posts numbers and posts according to your
preference for each post applied for only those who are posses basic qualifications according to Gazette notification will be called to written
examination.
02. Terms of Employment :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates will be required to contribute to the "Widows and
Orphans/Widower and orphans" Pension Scheme and will be placed on three years probation.
(b) Should liable to serve in any part of the Island.
The Efficiency Bar :
(c) According to the Public Administration Circular No. 20/2001, every officer appointed to a post should complete 1st
Efficiency Bar before 4th step and 2nd Efficiency Bar before 7th step of the Salary Scale. failure to complete the
Efficiency Bar within the stipulated period will result in the deferment of the increment and the period taken in excess
of the time allowed will be treated as a period of deferment of increment. These officers will also become ineligible to
apply for any higher post within Sri Lanka Technical Education Service until they complete the Efficiency Bar.
(d) Officers appointed to these posts are expected to obtain the competency in Second Language within 05 years from the
date of appointment in accordance to the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007. Failure to complete the competency
in the Second Langauge within the stipulated period will result in the deferment of the increment. It is necessary to pass
the Sinhala/Tamil in G . C. E. (O/L) as a main subject (should not be a 2nd language or optional subject) and pass the oral
test held by the Department of Official Languages or pass the special skills examination held by the Department of
official language as a language competencies of these officers.
03. Salary and allowances.– The monthly consolidated salary scale relevant to this post is Rs. 22,935 - 645 x 10 - 790 x 8 -
1,050 x 17 - Rs. 53,555. Payments will be made in terms of P . A. Circular 6/2006. Payment of increment will be subjected to the completion
of the Efficiency Bar specified in Para 2(c) above.
04. Qualifications.– Every applicant should produce the evidence that they have obtained the following qualifications before the
closing date of applications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 40 years of age on the closing date of applications. The upper age limit
does not apply to officers already in government service ;
(c) Is of excellent moral character and physically fit ;
(d) 03 years teaching/field experience in a recognize institution after obtained a degree which include relevant subject field,
from a university, recognized by the University Grant Commission ;
(e) In considering the relevant subject field for lecturer (Information and Communication Technology), studied such subject
as a subject of a degree is not sufficient.
One or more of the under mentioned sub fields should include for teaching or field experience.
Serial No. Designation Sub field
01 Lecturer (Civil Engineering) Building Technology
Highway Technology
Water Supply and Drainage Technology
Irrigation Technology
02 Lecturer (Electrical Engineering) Power Generation
Power transmission and Distributions
03 Lecturer (Welding Technology) Welding Processes
Prevent Weld Defects
Identify Material used in Welding and select Welding Process
Monitor Maintenance schedule of Wedling Equipment and Accessories
Heat Treatment
04 Lecturer (Automobile Technology) Diesel and Petrol Engine
Motor Vehicle Electric Wiring
Motor Vehicle Air-conditioning

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
2002
05 Lecturer (Jewellery Designing Technology) Maintenance of Jewelry Machineries
Jewelry Design
Production of Jewelry
06 Lecturer (Bio Medical Equipments Technology) Micro computer hardware
Operations and troubleshooting
Semi conductor devices and analog circuits
Digital Electronic and applications
Maintenance and operating Bio medical Instruments
07 Lecturer (Farm Machinery Technology) Examine appliances of Farm Machineries
Design of parts of Farm Machineries
Production of parts of Farm Machineries
Assessment and selection of Farm Machineries
08 Lecturer (Information and Communication Multi Media Projection net working, Hardware and software
Technology)
09 Lecturer (Information and Telecommunication Switching, networking, transmission and maintenance of equipments
Technology)
05. Recruitment Procedure.– Candidates will be recruited on the results of the open competitive exam for the vacancies of posts
in Lecturer Class III (Special Cadre) of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service for the Colleges of Technology, purview under the Department
of Technical Education and Training. Commissioner General of Examination will held this examination as per the service minute of Sri Lanka
Technical Education Service, on behalf of recruitment authority.
06. Copies of followings documents certified by you should be attached with the application :
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Baptismal Certificate or the Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of the Code
of Regulations for Assisted Schools will not be accepted) ;
(ii) Degree certificates with detail certificates or other educational certificates ;
(iii) Certificate of professional and/or technical qualifications that confirm the experience ;
(iv) Certificates of highest examination passed in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service must be forwarded through the Heads of their respective Departments.
08. Reference is requested to General Conditions applicable to appointments in the State Services, published at the beginning of
Section (IIA) of Part I of this Gazette and also to the minute of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service, published in the General Part I of
Gazette No. 415 of 15.08.1986.
09. All the applicants must appear for written examination conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations, comprising
following components. Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. Not to be allowed to change the language medium
applied :
(i) General Knowledge - 100 marks - duration 1 hour
(ii) General Intelligence - 100 marks - duration 1 hour
Candidates selected according to the merit order of the open competitive examination, should face an interview to examine the
basic qualifications, mentioned in the Gazette Notification (Marks will not be given for the interview). Applicants who have obtained 40%
or above marks for each module will be considered for the priority list which will be based on the aggregate marks accumulated by them.
Number of recruitments will be decided according to the vacancies in each subject field.
10. Syllabus :
10.1 General Knowledge - 1 hour
This question paper has been set to assess the candidate's knowledge of Economic, Social, Political, Geographical
matters at National and International level. It consists of multiple choice questions.
10.2 General Intelligence - 1 hour
This question paper is consist of multiple choice questions for assess the candidate's ability for logical thinking
decision making and intelligent.
Serial No. Designation Sub field

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
2003
11. Date of Examination.– This examination will be held on January, 2011 in Colombo. The Secretary to the Ministry of Youth
Affairs reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
Immediately after issue of admission cards to the candidates, a news paper notification will be published by the Department of
Examinations. If the admission card is not received by the applicant even the lapse of 02 or 03 days after the publication of s uch notice,
candidates should notify the Department of Examination as setout in the notification. It will be more useful to notify the Department along
with a certified photocopy of the application retained by the candidates, registration receipt of post and fax number, when it is out side the
Colombo to send the admission card, along with the letter of request.
12. Examination Fee.– The fee of the examination is Rs. 400. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any
People's Bank branch to be credited to Director General Department of Technical Education and Training, to the Account No. : 176-1001-
39026228 (Mid City Branch). The receipt obtained from the People's Bank should be affixed at the relevant cage provided in the application.
This fee will not be refunded. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt with the candidates.
13. Secretary to the Ministry of Youth Affairs reserves the right, not to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
14. Clauses of Sections 10-12 of Chapter II of establishment's Code will relevant as suitable for the post.
15. Attestation of signature in the admission card should produce to the officer in charge of examination centre at the 1st day of
the examination.
16. Only an Identity Card issued by the Department of the Registration of Persons or a valid passport will be accepted for prove
the identity of candidate to the officer in charge of examination centre, in the Examination conduct by the Department of Examination.
17. Issue of admission card to the candidate will not be accepted as fulfill the qualification to appear the examination.
18. The candidate will be subjected to the rules and regulations, regarding to conduct the examination, enacted by the Commissioner
of examinations. Violating such rules and regulations, he/she will be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
S. S. H
EWAPATHIRANA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs.
Ministry of Youth Affairs,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Elwitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
05th October, 2010.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF POSTS IN LECTURER CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE)
OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE – 2011
Post Post No.
I Concent
II Concent
III Concent
Please see paragraph 01 of Gazette Notification it will not to be allowed to change the order :
1.0 Medium :
Language medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
2004
01. Name with initials :
Initials at the end (In captial letters)
E. g. : SILV A  A. B.
02. Name in full :–––––––––––––.
03. ( a) Official Address :–––––––––––––.
(b) Private Address :–––––––––––––.
(In capital letters) (Admission will be sent to this address)
(c) Personal Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
(d) Whether a Sri Lankan : Y es No.
05. ( a) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(b) National Identity Card No. :
06. Age as at closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Particulars of present post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :–––––––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :–––––––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :–––––––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :–––––––––––––.
(e) Department :–––––––––––––.
(f) Institute/Place of work :–––––––––––––.
08. Particulars of Educational Qualifications (Including certificates of proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil Language) :
Examination University/Institution Year Subject field
1.
2.
3.
4.
09. Particulars of Teaching/Field experience :
Name of the Institution Designation Certificate Period Subject field/
Served obtained Profesional field
1.
2.
3.
4.
(Copies of relevant certificates should be attached)
10. Previous appointments (to be stated in chronological order with exact dates) :
Department/ Place of Designation Whether permanent or From To Period
Institution work T emporary
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2010
2005
11. Whether you have been convicted in a Court or Law ? If so give details :–––––––––––––.
12. If served in a Government Department Corporation or board state reasons for termination of service :–––––––––––––.
13. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so state details in brief :–––––––––––––.
Receipt of the examination fees
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained therein are found to be false and incorrect, before selections, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal without compensation
if the inaccuracy is discovered after the appointment, further, I declare that I will subject to the rules and regulations, ena ct by the
Commissioner of Examination, regarding held the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
For candidates of Public and Provincial Public Service :
Recommendation of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars contained in No. 10 to 13 of above officer, are true and correct.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10–882
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.