

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'09'28
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
719
719
wxl 1"778- 2012 iema;eïn¾ 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'09'28
No. 1,778 – FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER  28, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Land Settlement :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Notices under Land Development Ordinance ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 720
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  19th  October, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
05th October, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N.B.– Part IV A  of the Gazette  No. 1,777 of  21.09.2012 was not published.
N. B.— The Catalogue of books  printed  quarterly in July- September  2009 has been Published in Part  V  of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'09'28
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2012
720
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Land Commissioner General’s  No. : 4/10/31108.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.:  EP/28/LES/TRI/TG/259.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose, Mr. Lorenzu
Patabedige Ariyarathna has requested on lease a state land containing
in extent about  0.091 Ha. out of extent marked Lot No. 50 as
depicted in  the plan No. Tri/TWG/98/085 and  situated in the
Village of  Gamunupura   belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division
of  Sumedhankapura  coming within the Area of Authority of   Nagara
and  Kadawath  Divisional Secretariat in the District of Trincomalee.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Lot  Number 49, 48, uy 47  ;
On the East by : Lot Number 47, 46 and Trincomalee
Kandy road reserve  ;
On the  South by : Trincomalee -Kandy  road reserve and lane;
On the West by : Lane and Lot  Number 49.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  ( From  15.06.1995
onwards);
(b) The Annual Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer for the
year 1995;
Penalty : Treble 4% of the developed value of the land;
(c) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the Residential Purpose ;
(e) This lease must also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary and by
other institutions;
(f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(h) No sub leasing can be done  until the expiry of a minimum
period of  05 years;
(i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(j) House construction activities must be completed within the
time frame specified in alienating lands for house construction
purposes and the failure to do so will be deemed as a lapse
of the long term  lease bond and the land will have to be  re-
vested in the government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
K
USHANI BORALESSA ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner( Land),
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, Land  Secretariat,
''Mihikatha Medura",
 Rajamalwaththa Road,
Battaramulla,
22nd  September, 2012.
09-1240