

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
639
639
wxl 1"706 - 2011 uehs ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'05'13
No. 1,706 – FRIDAY , MAY 13, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th May, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th May,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... 640
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—  Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.
Part III of the Gazette No. 1,705 of 06.05.2011 was not published.
N.B.— (i) D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 08th April, 2011.
(ii) Notaries (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of 21st April, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
640
Posts - Vacant
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Calling Applications for the Recruitment to the Post of Investigation Officer
1.0 APPLICATIONS are called from the qualified persons for the recruitment to the posts of Investigation Officer under the Loca l
Government Department of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
2.0 Applicants will be selected to recruit to the posts of Investigation Officer of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service on
the basis of district population ratio in terms of Public Administrative Circular No. 15/90, from those who have fulfilled the qualifications
and the merit of a written test conducted by the Public Service Commission of the Sabaragamuwa Province.
3.0 3.1 Qualified applicants will be given appointments on the priority of marks obtained at the written test.
3.2 Number of appointees and the date of appointment will be decided by the Public Service Commission of the Sabaragamuwa
Province. Final decision regarding the non-filling of certain number of vacancies or all the vacancies will be taken by the
Public Service Commission of the Sabaragamuwa Province.
4.0 Salary Scale for this post.– MN-4(2006A) 6/2006(IV) Rs. 15,215 - 10 x 215 - 4 x 240 - 7 x 320 - 15 x 360 - Rs. 25,965.
5.0 Educational and other professional qualifications.– Following are the required qualifications for the recruitment to the post of
Investigation Officer in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service :–
1. The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or by registration ;
2. The applicant should have 03 years permanent residency in the Sabaragamuwa Province immediately prior to the closing
date of applications ;
3. The age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications ;
4. The upper age limit is not applicable to those who are presently employed permanently in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service ;
5. Should possess a good moral character and a sound physical health ;
6. Should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) examination with six subjects including at least
04 Credit passes and two credits should be for Sinhalese/Tamil Language/Literature and Arithmetic/Pure mathematics/
Basic Mathematics/Commercial Arithmetic at not more than two sittings (Should have passed 05 subjects at one sitting) ;
or
7. Should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination with 06 subjects including at least
04 Credit passes and two Credits should be for Sinhala/Tamil language or Literature, Mathematics at not more than two
sittings (Should have passed 05 subjects at one sitting) ; or
8. Should have passed the General Certificate of National Education Examination with 06 subjects including at least 02 "A"
or "B" Grade passes for First Language, Mathematics and another two subjects at not more than two sittings (Should have
passed 05 subjects at one sitting) ; and
Should have at least one of the following qualifications :–
(i) Bachelor of Commerce degree from a recognized university with Accounting as a subject and 05 years experience in
Accounting and Management activities of Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Corporation Service ;
(ii) Four years Diploma in Commerce or Accounting from a Sri Lanka Technical College or a Government Polytechnic
Institution with 05 years experience in Accounting and Management activities of Public Service/Provincial Public
Service or Corporation Service ;
(iii) Medium Level examination of the above I and II examinations/Basic level examination of Sri Lanka Institute of
Chartered Accountants/Basic level examination of Institute of Chartered Accountants, England/Final Certificate of
London Administrative Accounts Institution and 10 years experience in Accounts and Management activities in the
Public Service/Provincial Public Service or Corporation Service.
6.0 Examination Procedure :–
1. General Knowledge 100 marks 01 hour
2. Book-keeping and Accounting Methods 100 marks 03 hours

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
641
General knowledge.– Knowledge regarding Social, Economical, Political and Geographical conditions at present Sri Lanka and the
world is expected.
Book-keeping and Accounting methods.– It is expected to test the knowledge regarding final accounts and a basic knowledge about
subordinate accounts and a knowledge regarding the other branches that could be classified by the financial condition of an institution and
the knowledge regarding the local governmetn bodies.
6.1 Althoug this is a competitive examination, to gain eligibility for the appointment, the applicant should take at least 40%
of the marks for each subject. Appointments will be given by strictly adhering the reserved number of vacancies for the
competitive examination and the order of the number of marks obtained.
7.0 Penalty for the fraudulent information.– Correct information should be supplied very carefully when filling this application.
Candidature will be cancelled before the examination at the time of examination, after the examination or any other time if it reveals that any
applicant is not suitable in terms of the examination rules and regulations. If it reveals that the false information has been submitted he/she
could be dismissed from the government service at any time.
8.0 Examination fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 450. It could be paid to any Ministry or Department (except local government
institutions) or to any Divisional Secretariat within the Sabaragamuwa Province and the receipt issued for it should be affixed to the relevant
place in the application. This examination fee should be deposited to credit to the revenue head No. 2003-90-01 of Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council and this fee is not refundable due to any reason. Money orders and stamps will not be accepted and it is advised to keep a photocopy
of the payslip with the applicant's possession.
9.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared by using a paper in size of A4 (21x29cm) (Normal half-sheet size) :
(a) to appear paragraphs 01 - 03 on page one and ;
(b) the paragraphs 04 and onwards on other pages. It will be useful if you keep a photocopy of the application. Further, it
is the responsibility of the applicant to prepare his application according to the specimen given with this notification.
Applications which are not complied with the specimen will be rejected.
10.0 Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission will allow to sit for the examination to those who have paid the relevant
examination fee and submitted the applications on or before the relevant date on the presumption that all the applicants have fulfilled the
required qualifications that appeared on this notification. Issuing an admission card is not considered that the applicant has fulfilled the
necessary qualifications relevant to this post. Candidature will be cancelled if it reveals that the necessary qualifications h ave not been
acquired on the time of inspecting the qualifications by calling for an interview.
10.1 Please write "The Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment to the post of Investigation Officer – 2011" and
the district of permanent residency on the top left hand corner of the envelope which is sent enclosing the application.
10.2 The signature of the applicant should be certified by a principal of a government school/justice of peace/Commissioner
of Oaths/Commissioned Officer of any one of three forces/Police Officer holding a gazetted post or any permanent
officer who draws annual consolidated salary not less than Rs. 240,360 in the public service.
10.3 Completed applications should be sent to the following address by registered post on or before 13.06.2011.
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Province,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Complex,
New Town, Ratnapura.
11.0 Any one of the following documents should be produced to the supervisor in order to prove the identity of the applicant :
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) Valid Passport.
12.0 Issuing an admission card to an applicant should not be considered as acceptance of qualifications required to sit for the
examination. Applicants are subjected to the rules and regulations Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission imposed by the,
regarding the holding of examination. He/She will be liable to punishment impose by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission
for any breach of such rules and regulations.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
642
13.0 Decision of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Service Commission will be final regarding any matter that is not
mentioned here. All the applicants are bound to act according to the general examination rules and regulations contains in this notification.
SUNETHRA GUNAW ARDHANE,
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
Office of the Provincial Public Serivce Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial council Complex,
New Town, Ratnapura,
On this 21st day of April, 2011.
THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF INVESTIGA TION OFFICER IN
THE SABARAGAMUW A PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE – 2011
(For the office use only)
Medium of language sit for the examination :
Sinhala – 2 Tamil – 3          English – 4
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials by putting the initials at the end :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Eg.– Perera, A. B. C.
1.2 Full name (In English capital letters) :––––––––––.
1.3 Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
1.5 Sex : Female – 1
Male –    2
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address (Please write in English capital letters) :––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.3 The address which the admission card to be sent (In English capital letters) :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 District of the applicant's permanent residency : Ratnapura – 1
(Please write the relevant number in the box) Kegalle      – 2
3.2 Divisional Secretariat Division :––––––––––.
3.3 Duration of residency :––––––––––.
3.4 Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––––.
4.0 4.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.2 Age as at 13th June, 2011 :
Years : Months : Days :
5.0 Educational qualifications :–
5.1 Details regardng the G . C. E. (O/L) examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––.
(iii) Result :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
643
5.2 Name of the Degree/Diploma, Middle or Name of the University/Technical Date of validation of
basic examination/final certificate College which was taken that qualification that certificate
5.3 Name of the served Post held Duration Whether this post comprise the activities
Department/Institution Fr om                      To of Accounts and management
6.0 Whether you were convicted for any offence ? (Please mark “3”) (If yes give details) :
Yes N o
7.0 Information regarding the payment slip of examination fee :
(i) Name of the office which the payment was done  :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt  :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid  :––––––––––.
Please paste the receipt here
It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with you
8.0  Applicant's certificate :
(a) This is to certify that the above mentioned particulars furnished by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree
to bear the damage due to non-filling and/or filling erroneously, part of this. Further I declare that I have filled correctly all the parts
here.
(b) I know that my candidature will be cancelled or dismiss from the service if it reveals before the recruitment or after the recruitment
respectively that I have furnished a false declaration here.
(c) I will not change the information furnished here later.
(d) I do hereby declare that I am subjected to the rules and regulations enacted by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service
Commission regarding the conducting of the examination.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date  :––––––––––.
9.0 Attesting of the Applicant's Signature :
This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who submit this application is personally known to me and put his/her
signature in my presence on ....................... and has been paid the examination fee and pasted the paid receipt.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting officer :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Please place the rubber stamp)

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
644
10. If the candidate is being employed in the Public Service or in the Provincial Public service the certificate mentioned below should be
certified by the Head of the Department or an empowered officer :
(a) This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is serving in the post of ..................... since ... ................. in this
Department, has earned all the increments of the salary, not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment against his/her except
advices and all the particulars furnished in the application are true and accurate.
(b) I further certify that if he/she is selected to the aforesaid post, the applicant can be/cannot be released from the present post he is
now employed.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Institution/Empowered Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Department/Institution :––––––––––.
05–238
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.