

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2086$34 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'08'30
No. 2086/34 -  THURSDAY   AUGUST  30,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG  4195 —42  (08/2018)
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Industrial services bureau of the Provincial Council North Western Province (amendment) statute No. …. of
2018 of the Provincial Council of North Western Province
IT is hereby notified that the Industrial Services Bureau Statute of North Western Province Statute No. …...   of 2018 of
the Provincial Council of North Western Province as amended and published below shall be submitted to the Provincial
Council of North Western Province at the expiry of thirty days from today. Matters pertaining to the provisions contained
in the Statute, if any, shall be referred to me before such date.
D. G. B. M. D
HARMASIRI DASSANAYAKE,
Chief Minister of the North Western Province
and Minister of Finance & Planning, Engineering Services,
Law and Order, Education, Local Authority and Provincial Administration,
Economic Promotion, Environment,
Water Supply & Drainage and Tourism.
Chief Ministry and the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Engineering Services,  Law and Order, Education,
Local Authority and Provincial Administration,
Economic Promotion, Environment,
Water Supply & Drainage and Tourism.
1st Floor,
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
2A
 NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Industrial services bureau of north western province (amendment) statute No.  .…  of 2018
A STATUTE TO AMEND THE INDUSTRIAL SERVICES BUREAU OF NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE STATUTE
NO.11 OF 1990 AS AMENDED BY THE INDUSTRIAL SERVICES BUREAU OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE
STATUTE NO.06 OF 2003
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province as vested with the power in compliance with
Article 21 of List I (Provincial Councils) of Ninth Schedule to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as follows:
1. This Statute may be cited as the Industrial Services Bureau (Amendment) Statute No. ………of
2018 and shall come into force, on receiving the assent of the Governor.
2. The Industrial Services Bureau Statute No. 11 of 1990, as amended by Statute No. 6 of 2003,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Principal Statute”), is hereby amended, by the substitution for
the long title thereof, of the following:-
“a statute to provide for the establishment of the industrial services bureau of the north western
province for accelerating economic growth through enterprise development with a view to
improving the standard of living of the people of the province and for matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto.”
3. Section 1 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the substitution for the words, “as
approved by the Governor” of the words, “as may be appointed by the Minister in charge of the
subject of industries for the North Western Province, by order published in the Gazette”.
4. Sections 2,3,4,5,6 and 7 in Part I of the Principal Statute are hereby repealed, amended and the
following parts are substituted therefor :-
2. (1) There shall be established a Bureau which shall be called the Industrial Services
Bureau of the North Western Province and hereinafter, in this statute, referred to as
the Bureau.
(2) The Bureau shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate
and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. The objects of the Bureau shall be :
(a) Development and promotion of enterprises;
(b) Creation of a conducive environment to attract entrepreneurs into the province for
increasing economic growth;
(c) Provision of Business Development Services to entrepreneurs and enterprises;
(d) Promotion of public private partnership in enterprises; and
(e) Identification, planning, execution, management and evaluation of local or foreign
projects.
4. The Bureau shall perform all functions that are necessary to achieve the objects of the
Bureau including the following :
(a) Promote industrial and enterprise development; perform the necessary action;
(b) Creation of a conducive investment environment for increased economic activity
by introducing incentive schemes and infrastructure development
Short title and
date of operation
Replacement of the
long title of statute,
No.11 of 1990
Amendment of
section 1 of the
Principal Statute
Replacement of
sections 2,3,4,5,6
and 7 of the
Principal Statute
“Industrial
Services
Bureau”
Objects of
the Bureau
Functions
of the
Bureau

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
(c) Attract entrepreneurs/ investors into the Province by identifying viable enterprises
and providing necessary Business Development Services;
(d) Carry out business skills training and educational activities and conduct  training
programmes, conferences, seminars, workshops, study tours and other such
programmes in order to disseminate knowledge and information ;
(e) Organize, coordinate and participate in trade fairs and business delegations for
business and market promotion;
(f) Respond to and act upon requests from entrepreneurs seeking assistance in
marketing ; and to encourage promotion of manufacturing, in areas where market
opportunities are available ;
(g) Connect with local and foreign funding institutions and Non Governmental
Organizations in achieving the objects of the Bureau; and ensuring its sustainability
and provide management and consultancy services for the projects implemented by
them;
(h) Promote the application of modern methods of management, production and
distribution in order to enhance quality and improve productivity;
(i) Provide technological solutions required for the technical and environmental issues
of small, medium and large scale entrepreneurs;
(j) Prepare Technical Reports, Assessment Reports, Valuation Reports and Feasibility
Study Reports for Public and Private sectors;
(k) Perform duties in and outside the Province for ensuring the sustainability and
continuance of the Bureau in terms of the National Policy and achieving the above
objects.
5. It shall be the duty of the Bureau to advise the Minister on any matter or matters referred
to in the Principal Statute that may be referred to the Bureau by the Chief Minister.
6. The Bureau shall have such powers, as may reasonably be necessary achieve its objects
and carry out its functions and in particular may.
(a) Acquire, in any manner whatsoever, and hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge any movable or immovable property;
(b) Open and maintain Current Accounts, Savings Accounts or Depositories for the
staff of the Bureau, in whatsoever Bank approved by a Board of Management;
(c) Take money as loans which may be necessary for carrying out its functions,  from
whatsoever Bank approved by the Board of Management;
(d) Establish and operate industrial/enterprises promotion and development centres;
(e) Enter into joint venture agreements or contractual agreements or collaborative
agreements in order to carry out the objects of the Bureau ;
Responsibility of
the Bureau
Powers of the
Bureau

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
4A
(f) Conduct, assist, co-ordinate and encourage research into all aspects of enterprise
development ;
(g) Levy fees or charges for any services rendered by the Bureau ;
(h) Pay fees or charges for any services rendered to the Bureau ;
(i) Make regulations in respect of its employees including the appointment, training,
promotion, remuneration, motivation, incentives and allowances, disciplinary
control, conduct and grant of leave;
(j) Establish work standards for its employees, evaluate performance and take corrective
action thereon;
(k) Import plant, machinery and equipment required for the purposes of the Bureau and
receive equipment, funds and any other assistance for carrying out the objects of
the Bureau;
(l) Hire external Consultants where necessary and make payments for the same;
(m) Take any other necessary action to carry out the objects of the Bureau.
7. The Bureau may establish and maintain such number of departments, divisions and agencies
of the Bureau it may deem necessary for the proper and effective conduct of its business.
5. The new heading “Board of Management of the Bureau” is hereby substituted for the heading
“Board of the Bureau” in Part II of the Principal Statute.
6. Section 8 of the Principal Statute is hereby replaced and the following section substituted
therefor :-
8.(1) There shall be a Board of Management of the Bureau (hereinafter referred to as the
Board of Management) to be vested with the administration, management and control
over the activities of the Bureau.
(2) The Board of Management may, for the purpose of administration of the activities
of the Bureau, carry out all powers, duties and functions vested, assigned or entrusted
with the Bureau under this Statute.
7. The following new section is hereby inserted immediately after section 8 of the Principal
statute and shall be in operation as section 8A of the Principal statute.
8 a (1)The Board of Management shall comprise of the following members :
(a) Four ex-officio members as follows :-
(i) Chief Secretary, North Western Province;
(ii) Secretary to the Chief Ministry of North Western Province;
Departments,
Divisions
and
Agencies of
the Bureau
Replacement of
the heading of
Part II of the
Principal Statute
Replacement of
Section 8 of the
Principal Statute
‘’Board of
Management’’
Insertion of new
section 8A to the
new statute
“Compo-
sition of the
Board of
Management’’

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
(iii) Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture of the North Western Province
(iv) Secretary to the Ministry of Textile, Small Industries and Rural Industries of
the North Western Province.
(b) Five members appointed by the Chief Minister considering the recommendation of
the Chief Executive Officer (hereinafter referred to as “appointed members”) as
follows ;
(i) An Executive Officer in the public sector or private sector commercial or
development bank, serving in a capacity, not lower in value than that of an
Assistant General Manager, to represent the banking sector;
(ii) A leading businessman / Chief Executive Officer from a large scale
manufacturing establishment located in the North Western Province to
represent the industrial sector;
(iii) An owner of a large scale private sector enterprise or a Chief Executive Officer
from the Corporate sector to represent the trade, service or corporate sector;
(iv) A Senior Lecturer in a University in the fields of Management or Economics
or Agriculture or Engineering or a Head of Department or a Dean or an expert
in the policy making field of industry, trade or commerce at national level;
(v) A Chartered Accountant from a leading Provincial or National level
organization serving in a leading private institution;
8. Section 9 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended as follows :A Provincial Councilor, a
Member of Parliament, a Member of Local Authority, a person of unsound mind, an insolvent
person or an accused person convicted by Court for an offence punishable shall not be entitled
to function as a member of the Board of Management of the Bureau.
9. Section 10 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended as follows :
(1) By substitution of words “all appointed members” for “all nominated members”;
(2) By substitution of the following side note for the same therein;”
10. The words in section 11 of the Principal statute “in case a member fails, by the Chief Minister
subject to section 9, in consultation with the Minister as a member” shall be substituted and
amended as “in case an appointed member fails, subject to the provisions in sections 8A and 9
by the Chief Minister as a member”.
11. Section 12 of the Principal Statute is hereby repealed and substituted by the following
section :
12 (1) An appointed member may resign from his post by a letter addressed to
the Chief Minister.
(2) The Chief Minister may remove an appointed member if he feels
appropriate and by reasoning for the same.
Amendment of
section 9 of the
Principal Statute
Amendment of
section 10 of the
Principal Statute
Amendment of
section 11 of the
Principal Statute
Amendment of
section 12 of the
Principal Statute
“Resignation
and removal
of appointed
members”
Replacement
“tenure of the appointed members”

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
6A
12. Section 14 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “in
consultation with the Minister” in subsection (2) thereof.
13. Section 15 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the insertion of the following new
subsection :
“(4) The membership of a nominated member, who absents himself from three consecutive
meetings of the Board of Management, without informing the Chairman, shall cease
thereafter. He will not be eligible for re-appointment to the Board”.
14. Section 21 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the substitution for the word “by the
Minister”, of the words “by the Chief Minister”
.
15. Sections 23 and 24 in Part III of the Principal Statute are hereby amended by the substitution,
for the word “Director”, wherever it occurs in that part and in the marginal notes therein, of the
words “Executive Director”.
16. Section 30 of the Principal Statute is hereby repealed and amended by the following section
substituted therefor :-
30. “The provisions of section 23 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 shall apply
to the audit of the accounts of the Bureau, with other necessary amendments”
17. Section 31 of the Principal Statute is hereby repealed and amended by the following section
substituted therefor:-
31. “The Board may engage qualified management auditors to ensure how far successful
carrying out the objects off the Bureau in achieving the same. The management
shall give effect to such advice as may be given by the Board based on the
recommendations of the management auditors.”
18. Section 32 of the Principal Statute is hereby repealed and amended by the following section
substituted therefor :-
32. “The Board shall, at the end of each financial year, prepare an Annual Report relating
to the activities undertaken by the Bureau during that financial year and shall transmit
such Report to the Chief Minister who shall cause it to be laid before the Provincial
Council before the expiry of twelve months of the close of the relevant financial
year.”
19. The Principal Statute is hereby amended by the substitution for the word ‘Board’ of the word
‘Board of Management’ wherever it appears in any of the provisions of the Principal statute.
20. Section 34 in Part V of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the insertion of the words
“including Financial and Administrative Regulations” at the beginning of the first sentence of
that section.
21. Section 42 of the Principal Statute is hereby repealed and amended by the following section
substituted therefor :-
Amendment of
section 15 of the
Principal Statute
Amendment of
section 21 of the
Principal Statute
Amendment of
sections 23 and 24
of the Principal
Statute
Amendment of
section 14 of the
Principal Statute
Replacement of
section 30 of the
Principal statute
“Audit of
the
accounts
of the
Bureau “
Amendment of
section 31 of the
Principal statute
“Management
Audit”
Amendment of
section 32 of the
Principal statute
“Annual Report”
Amendment of
section 34 of the
Principal statute
Amendment of
section 42 of the
Principal statute

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2018
42. In this Statute, unless the context requires otherwise -
“Governor” shall mean the Governor of the North Western Province ;
“Industrial Services” shall include all Business Development Services ;
“Provincial Council” shall mean the Provincial Council of the North Western
Province”;
“Chief Minister” shall mean the Chief Minister of the North Western Province;
“Province” shall mean the North Western Province of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka;
“Qualified auditor” shall mean;
(a) a person who is a member of the Chartered Accountants Association of Sri
Lanka or any other firm established by law and holds the certificate issued
by the Council of such institution to engage in the profession as an
Accountant;
(b) a chartered accounting firm where each resident partner of an accounting
firm is a member of the Chartered Accountants Association of Sri Lanka or
any other firm established by law and holds a certificate issued by the council
of such institution to engage in the profession as an Accountancy firm;
“incentive schemes” shall mean the encouraging schemes;
“enterprises” shall mean agriculture, fisheries, livestock, trade, commercial business
and corporate, industries and enterprises.
22. Section 42 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the insertion of the following new
section, as section 43  immediately after section 42
43. “In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.”
09 - 365
“Interpretation”
Insertion of
section 43 of
the Principal
statute
“Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency”
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.