

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2329
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … -
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"093 – 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 12 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'10'12
No. 2,093 –  FRiday ,  octobER 12, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd November, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th october, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2327-b 81457- 5,403 (10/2018)
N. B.–   Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2092 of 05.10.2018 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2018
2328
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2018
2329
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of SCIENCE, TEChNOLOGy 
& RESEARCh, SkILLS DEvELOPmENT & 
vOCATIONAL  & kANDyAN hERITAGE 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of the Post of Technical officer of 
Supervisory management Assistant Technical 
Service Category of the Department of Technical 
Education and Training - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are called for competitive examination 
to select suitable persons to fill the vacancies (Civil/
Mechanical), existing in the posts of Technological Officer 
of Supervisory Management assistant technical Service 
category of this department. applications prepared in 
accordance with the specimen at the end of this notification 
and following instructions in a4 size paper using both 
sides should be sent through registered post to reach the 
director General, department of technical Education and 
training, P. o. box 557, olcott Mawatha, colombo 10 on or 
before the date, under mentioned. the envelope enclosing 
the application shuld clearly be marked "competitive 
examination to recruit to the post of Technical Officer" on 
the top left hand corner. 
 (a)  the closing date of application is 12.11.2018.
  
Note.– inquiries, about applications or related letters 
lost or delayed in post cannot be considered. 
any damages that may cause due to the delay 
in submitting applications until the closing date 
should be borne by applicants, themselves.
1. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment shall be made 
on the results of a written competitive examination and a 
general interview. Number of applicant's equivalent to the 
expected number of recruitment shall be summoned for a 
general interview, according to the order of merit of the 
total marks of candidates, who have passed the written 
examination and existing number of vacancies and suitable 
persons shall be selected. (Marks shall not be allocated 
at the interview and only the accuracy of the certificates 
relevant to the particulars mentioned in the application shall 
be verified).
2. Conditions of employment :
 (i) this appointment is permanent and pensionable. 
you shall be subjected to a policy decision made 
by the government in future on the pension 
scheme to which you are entitled. Further, you 
shall make contributions to the widows and 
orphans'/widowers and orphans pension scheme. 
you shall make your contribution in such manner 
determined from time to time by the government. 
 (ii) Officers appointed to this post shall be subjected 
to a probationary period of 03 years and they 
should pass the 1st efficiency bar examination 
within the said 03 years.
 (iii) in terms of Public administration circular No. 
01/2014 circulars issued consequently to the 
same, proficiency in official langauge of should 
be obtained within 05 years. 
 (iv) this appointment is subjected to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of 
the government and other departmental other 
orders. 
 (v) Should serve in any college of technology/
technical college of the department, as 
stipulated.
3. Salary Scale.– a salary scale of Rs. 31,040 -10x445 
-11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550 (monthly) of salary 
code MN-3-2016 is entitled to this post in terms of Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. 
Salary shall be paid as mentioned in Schedule ii of the said 
circular. 
4. (i) Educational Qualifications :
 1. Shall have passed G. c. E. (ordinary Level) 
examination in one sitting in six (06) subjects with 
credit pass for Sinhala/t amil/English langauge, 
Science, Mathematics and one other subject ; 
  and 
 2. Shall have passed all subjects (except the 
common General test) at G. c. E. (advanced 
Level) examination in one sitting under Science/
Mathematics streams with two (02) subjects 
relevant to the field. (Shall have passed three (03) 
subjects in one sitting under the old syllabus).
4. (ii) Vocational Qualifications :
 1. National diploma in technology awarded by the 
University of Moratuwa or Hardy institute of 
ampara ; 
or

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2018
2330
 2. National diploma in Engineering awarded by the National apprentice and industrial training authority ;
 or
 3. Higher National diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Higher Education ; 
 or
 4. t echnology diploma awarded by the open University of Sri Lanka ;
 or
 5. Shall have successfully completed Part 1 of the Engineering examination conducted by the Sri Lanka 
Engineering institute ;
 or
 6. Shall have completed National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) level 06 relevant to the field of 
employment ;
 or
 7. Shall have obtained other technological qualifications recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission as fully equivalent to the above referred Technological qualifications, after derived referring 
the Ministry of Higher Education and the institutions, which issue the above referred technology 
certificates. 
5. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
6. Physical fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of               
Sri Lanka and perform the duties of the post. 
7. Other Qualifications :
 (i) candidates should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) candidates should have good moral character, 
 (iii) All qualifications required for appointment to the post should have been satisfied in each and every way as 
at the closing date of applications.
8. (i) Written examination :
Name of the 
Question Paper
Duration 
(hours)
Maximum 
Marks
Minimum Marks 
required for a pass
Syllabus
1. General 
knoweldge and 
intelligence test
01 100% 40% Short question paper to assess 
knowledge of present social instances 
and international instances and capability 
of creative thinking and ability to solve 
problems
2. technological 
and subject 
related 
knowledge
03 100% 40% Should answer 05 questions out of 
08, prepared to assess technological 
knowledge relevant to the post. Equal 
marks shall be given to every question.
8. (ii) General Interview.– Marks shall not be allocated and it is held only for verification of qualificatios specified 
in the Procedure of recruitment and the notification published in accordance with the same.
9. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) admission cards shall be issued by the director General of the department of technical Education and 
training to the candidaets, who have sent applications formally. candidates, appearing for the examination 
in prescribed examination hall, should submit their admission card, with their signature duly attested, to 
the supervisor of the examination hall. Permission shall not be granted to any candidate, to sit for the 
examination without submitting the admission card. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2018
2331
 (ii) travelling expenses borne by the candidates 
for appearing for this examination or any other 
allowance shall not be paid. 
 (iii) candidates should prove their identity to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor of examination hall 
for every subject they appear. only one of the 
following documents shall be accepted for this 
purpose. 
 (a) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons ; or
 (b) Valid passport. 
 (iv) Examination shall be held in Sinhala and tamil 
medium only. the langauge medium shall not be 
allowed to change subsequently. 
 (v) all candidates who have paid the prescribed 
fee and submitted applications on or before the 
prescribed date shall be allowed to appear the 
competitive examination, by the director General 
of the department of technical Education 
and training on prior conclusion that only the 
candidates who have qualifications mentioned 
in the notification for calling applications, have 
applied. appearing for competitive examination 
does not mean to have accepted tha he possesses 
all the qualifications. 
 (vi) candidates shall be subjected to the rules and 
regulations, stipulated by the director General 
of the department of technical Education and 
training on conducting the examination. 
 (vii) this Examination shall be conducted by 
the testing and Evaluation division of the 
department of technical Education and training 
only at an examination center in colombo.
10. Method of Application :
 (i) applications, prepared with No.01-07 of 
specimen application, appearing in 1
st page No. 
08-10 appearing in 2 nd page and the rest in next 
pages, should be completed properly in their own 
hand writing. 
 (ii) applications, which are not prepared in 
accordance the specimen application and include 
incomplete particulars and applications received 
after the closing date of applications, shall be 
rejected. applicants are advised to send their 
applications in time to avoid the possibility of 
postal delay. 
 (iii) applications should be completed in the language 
medium of examination. 
 (iv) the examination fee is Rs. 500 and such fee 
should be paid to any People's bank branch in the 
island to the accont number 176-100-139026228 
(mid-city branch) to be credited to the director 
General, department of technical Education and 
Training. The receipt obtained should be affixed 
in the application form so as not be detached. it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
and receipt. Examination fee shall not be refunded 
under any circumstances and money order and 
stamps shall not be accpeted. 
 (v) Signature of candidates should be attested by a 
principal of Government school, a Grama Niladari 
of a division, a justice of peace, commissioner 
of oaths, attorney-at-law, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force, 
permanent staff officer in Public or Provincial 
Public Service with an annual consolidated salary 
of Rs. 498,960 or above, or a chief incumbent or a 
chief priest of a buddhist temple or a distinguish 
person, in charge of holy place of any other 
religion.
 (vi) applicants who are already in public or provincial 
public service should submit applications, 
through their Head of department. 
 (vii) if it is found that any information furnished by a 
candidate is false, action shall be taken to dismiss 
him/her from service. 
11. director General of the department of technical 
Education and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part 
of the vacancies. 
12. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
the tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 P. N. K. 
Malalasekara, 
 director General, 
 department of technical Education and  
 t raining. 
department of technical Education and training, 
colombo 10,
21st September, 2018.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2018
2332
For office use
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN FoRM 
Open COMpetitive exaMinatiOn fOr reCruitMent tO grade iii Of the pOst Of teChniCal OffiCer Of supervisOry 
ManageMent assistant teChniCal serviCe CategOry Of the departMent Of teChniCal eduCatiOn and training - 2018
Field of examination : civil :  Mechanical :
Language medium of the examination : Sinhala - 1  t amil - 2
01. (i) Name of the candidate :––––––––––––––.
 (ii) Name, with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––––.
   i.  Full Name (in block capitals) :––––––––––––––.
   ii.  Full Name (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––––––.
02. address and telephone Number :
 (i) Office address :––––––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :––––––––––––––.
 (ii) Personal address :––––––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :––––––––––––––.
  (if a change occurs in the address or telephone, it should be informed with immediate effect)
03. date of birth :  year :––––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––––,  date :––––––––––––––.
04. age as at closing date of applications :  years :––––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––––,  days :––––––––––––––.
05. National identity card Number :––––––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/Widow :––––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
 G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
 y ear :––––––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––––––. y ear :––––––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
09. V ocational Qualifications :
examination/Diploma Year Subjects Grade Name of the Institute/University

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'10'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.10.2018
2333
10. 
Serivce 
Station
Post Period of 
Service
Public Sector/Semi 
Government Sector/
Private Sector
 
11. indicate whether you a Sri Lankan citizen by decent or 
registration :––––––––––––––.
 (if is it through registration, indicate the details) 
12. Have you ever been dismissed, whilst holding a post in 
the public service ? :––––––––––––––.
13. if you are already in public service, are any disciplinary 
inquiries being conducted at department level against 
you ? :––––––––––––––.
14. Have you ever been convicted for any charge from 
any court ? if so, state the details regarding the same :               
––––––––––––––.
15. Peoples' bank branch to which the examination fee has 
been paid :––––––––––––––.
 date of payment :––––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here so as not to be 
detached
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and accurate. i am aware that if 
any particulars contained therein are found to be false and 
incorrect before the selection, I am liable to be disqualified 
and dismissed without compensation, if it is detected after 
the appointment. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––––.
16. attestation of the Signature of the applicant :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...............................
. who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ..
..............................
  ––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of officer attesting the signature. 
(this part is applicable only for the candidates, who are 
already engaged in Government employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution 
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ is 
serving at this Ministry/department/institution in the post of 
........................................ at present, his work and conduct 
is satisfactory, no disciplinary action has been taken against 
him and it is not intended to take any disciplinary action 
in future, the prescribed examination fee has been paid and 
the receipt is affixed. He can be/ cannot be released from 
service, if he is selected for this post. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of department or 
  Authorized officer.
date :––––––––––––––.
 (Official stamp)
10–307 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.