

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
87
87
wxl 1"742 - 2012 ckjdß 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'01'20
No. 1,742 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 20, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 90
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 90
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th January, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
January, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—  (i) Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 21st October, 2011.
(ii) Sri Lanka Association of Professional Social workers  (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 04th November, 2011.
(iii) Tax Appeals Commission (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of  the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of 18th November,  2011.
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,741 of 13.01.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
88
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
89
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
90
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
MULLAITIVU   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st  of  February,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
03rd Januray, 2012.
THE  SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Mullaitivu Puthukkidiyiruppu Post of Registrar of Marriages (General), The District Secretary/The Additional
  Births and Deaths of Puthukkidiyiruppu Registrar General, District
Division Secretariat, Mullaitivu.
01–474
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
AL  ALIM  CERTIFICATE  EXAMINATIONS
1. (a) THE regulations and syllabus for the Al Alim Examination
proclaimed by the Commissioner of Examinations on 20th
December 1973 and came into effect from January, 1976 is
hereby revised as mentioned in this notification.
(b) The revised regulations and syllabus will become effective
from January, 2013 for Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate
Examination and from January, 2015 for Al Alim Sanaviyya
Certificate Examination.
(c) However, for the benefit of those who already pursue their
studies as per the existing syllabus two more examination
diets wil be conducted parallel to the examinations under the
revised syllabus.
(d) Accordingly, Al Alim Preliminary Examination will be
conducted in 2013 and 2014 while Al Alim Final Examination
will be conducted in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. Examinations
thereafter will be conducted only under revised syllabus.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
91
2. The Scheme of Al Alim Certificate Examinations - 2013 and
there after the above examination will be held in two levels :
(1) Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate Examination,
(2) Al Alim Sanaviyya Certificate Examination.
General conditions, rules and regulations for the above two
examinations :
1. The above examinations will be conducted annually by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of and on
the advice of the Secretary to the Ministry of Education.
Whenever, the Commissioner General of Examinations deems
it to be necessary he may consult the Director, Department of
Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs.
2. Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate Examination and Al Alim
Sanaviyya Certificate Examination will be held beginning from
the year 2013 and the year 2015 respectively.
3. Medium of Instruction.– This examination will be conducted
in Arabic Language. Except the translation question all other
questions must be answered in Arabic Language. The candidate
should select only one of Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages
to answer the translation questions.
4. Qualification :
4.1 Those who have completed three years of study in an Arabic
College registered with the Department of Muslim Religious
and Cultural Affairs are eligible to sit for Al Alim
Muthawassitha Certificate Examination while those who
have completed five years of study are eligible to sit for Al
Alim Sanaviyya Certificate Examination ; or
4.2 If the principal of such an Arabic College considers that a
student studying in the Arabic College is eligible then that
student can sit for any one of the above two examinations.
Both these category of students described under 4.1 and 4.2
will be considered as Arabic Collegiate candidates.
4.3 Those who are not following a course of study in an Arabic
College also can sit for these examinations as private candidates
but they can apply only through an Arabic College.
4.4 A candidate who passes the Al Alim Muthawassitha
Certificate Examination is eligible to sit for Al Alim
Sanaviyyah Certificate Examination.
4.5 A candidate can apply to Sanaviyyah Examination only
after completion of Muthawassitha Examination.
5. Arabic colleges registered with the Department of Examinations
for the purpose of these examinations will receive application forms
and instructions by post. Those Arabic colleges which do not receive
the application forms and instructions must contact the
"Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla" to obtain the application forms.
5.1 Applications should be prepared in triplicate and two copies
should be sent to the Department of Examinations and the
other copy must be filed in the Arabic College.
5.2 Forms of application must be clearly filled without errors.
Incomplete or late applications will be rejected.
5.3 Closing date for the applications will be notified by means
of press or gazette notifications.
5.4 Completed application forms must be sent by registered
post to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
06. Examination Fee :
6.1 Fresh (first attempt) Arabic collegiate candidates will not
be levied a fee. Candidates applyng for a second or later
attempt and all private candidates must pay examination
fee.
6.2 Method of Payment.– The fee must be paid at a post office
and the receipt obtained should be attached to the application
form.
From time to time, the amount and the mode of payment of the
examination fee will be notified by the Department of Examinations.
07. Admission cards for the examination will be distributed through
the Principals of the relevant Arabic colleges.
7.1 Each candidate must submit the admission card to the exam
supervisor on the first instance he/she appears for the
examination. Failling to do so, will result in loosing the
candidature.
7.2 Candidate's signature on the admission card must be attested
by the Principal of the relevant Arabic college.
08. Identity of Person.– Each candidate must submit any one of
the following for personal identification :
(a) National Identity Card,
(b) A valid Pass Port.
09. Towns where Examination Centers will be Established :
(i) Eastern Province Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kalmunai,
Akkaraipattu
(ii) Western Province Colombo, Gampaha, Kalutara
(iii) Southern Province Galle, Matara
(iv) North Western Puttalam, Kurunegala
Province
(v) Central Province Kandy, Matale, Nuwara Eliya

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
92
(vi) North Central Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa
Province
(vii) Uva Province Badulla, Monaragala
(viii) Sabaragamuwa Mawanella, Ratnapura, Kegalle
Province
(ix)Northern Province Vavuniya, Mannar, Jaffna.
In case of insufficient number of applicants for a town, the
examination center there will be shiffted to the nearest town. The
Commissioner General of Examinations, according to his discretion
may or may not establish examination centers in the above towns or
elsewhere.
10. Re-scrutiny of Answer Scripts.– Application for re-scrutiny
will be accepted within 30 days from the date of releasing the results.
Application should be made according to the specimen form issued
by the Department of Examinations through the Principal of the
relevant Arabic college in respect of both the collegiate and the private
candidates. A fee must be paid and will be refunded only if the results
get changed.
11. Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate Examination (Year 2013
and thereafter) :
Details of Examination.– This examination consists of six question
papers, one for each of the following six subjects. Each question
paper will be of 3 hours duration :
1. Al Lukathul Arabiyyah Arabic Language and
Wal Adhab - 1 Literature - 1
2. Al Qur'anul Kareem Al Qur'anul kareem
3. Al Hadhees Nabavi Sayings of the Prophet
4. Al Fikhul Islami Islamic Law
5. Ath Tharbiya Al Islamiyya Islamic code of Ethics
6. Aththareekul Islami Islamic History
12. Syllabus :
1. Al Lukathul Arabiyyah Arabic Language and
Wal Adhab - 1 Literature - 1
Ability to organize and express opinion and thought will be tested.
Translation of unspecified texts, Essay writing, grammar and studeis
on language also will be tested.
Prescribed Text Books :
(a) Al Arbiyathul Linnashi'een Section 1, 2, 3 : Mahmud Ismail
Zeeni, Nasib Mustapha Abdul Azeez, Mukhar Thahir
Hussain.
(b) Majmoo athunnahv - The Sections of Meezan, Ajnas,
Thaqweemullisan, Al Awamil.
(c) Mudhammimadhul Aajooroomiyya - Muhhammath Ibnu
Muhammath Arraeeni.
(d) Annahuwul wadhih Al Marhala Al Ifthithayiah Juz'u 1, 2,
3 : Ali Jasim, Mustafa Ameen.
2. Al Quran ul Kareem.– Memorization of Juz'u Amma, General
understanding of Al Qur'an including translation, concise meaning
and understanding of rules of Thajweedh.
Prescribed Text Books :
(a) Hidhayathul Musthabeeth - As Sheikh Mahmoothul
Mahmooth
(b) Thafseer Al Jalalaine - Imam Jalaluddeen Assuyoothi.
3. Al Hathees Un Nabavi - Sayings of the Prophet :–
- General understanding of Hathees as the fundamental source
of law  ;
- Meanings of Hathees ;
- Memorizing specified Hathees ; and
- Hathees in relation to law will be tested in this question
paper.
Prescribed Text Books :
(a) Al Arbaoonan Navaviya - Imam Navavi (rah)
(b) Sathuth Thalibeen - Moulana Muhammadh Ashik Ilahi
4. Al Fikh ul Islami - Islamic Law :
- Knowledge and understanding of Islamic law ; and
- Ability to draw legal solutions for issues arising at different
periods of time will be tested.
Prescribed Text Book :
Madnu Abeeshujah - Al Qali Abi Shujah Ahmadh Ibnu Hussain
Ahamadh Al Isfahani.
5. Ath Tharbiya Al Islamiyyah - Islamic Code of Ethics :
Knowledge of Islamic Practices, Islamic Ethics and Islamic
conduct will be tested in this question paper.
Prescribed Text Books :
Tha'leemul Mutha'allim - Burhanul Islam as sarnooji
Hisnul Muslim - Sa'eedh Ibnu Ali Ibnuwahb Al Kahdhani
6. Ath Thareekul Islami - Islamic History :
Understanding of Jahileeya Period,
The history of Muhammed (Sal) from his birth to Wafath ; and
Kulafaur Rashidun - Their Characters, Achievements,
Administration and Expansion of Rule.
Prescribed Text Book :
Tharikhul Islami - Hassan Ibrahim Hassan
13. Structure of the Question Papers :
There are two parts in each question paper.
Part I - Consists of 10 structured questions for which
short answers are expected. all ten questions must be
answered. Each answer carries 4 marks. 40 marks are
allocated for this part.
Part II - One essay type question and six semi structured
questions are included in this part of the paper. Essay

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
93
type question is compulsory and carries 20 marks.
Selected four out of the six semi structured questions
should be answered. Each of these questions contain
two parts 'a' and 'b' which carry 5 marks each making
the marks allocated for each questions 10. 60 marks are
allocated for this part.
14. Criteria for a Pass in the Examination.– While total marks for
each paper is 100, minimum of 35 should be obtained for a pass.
Grades will be awarded as shown below :
Marks Grades
00-34 W
35-49 S
50-64 C
65-74 B
75-100 A
Those who pass in all six subjects in Al Alim Muthawassitha
Certificate Examination and at least in six subjects including Language
(Sinhala, Tamil or English) and Mathematics in the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination is eligible to obtain Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate
from the Department of Examinations. But the Department of
Examinations will issue individual result sheets to all the candidates
who sit for the Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate.
15. Release of Examination Results and Criteria for Pass.– Those
who pass in all six subjects in Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate
Examination are considered to have passed the Examination. Those
who pass in all but one subject are considered as referred candidates.
If the candidate completes the referred subject in any one of the two
immediately succeeding examination diets such candidate will also
be considered to have passed the Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate
Examination.
To obtain Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate, a candidate should
pass in the above Examination as well as the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations in six subjects
including language (Sinhala, Tamil or English) and Mathematics. The
Department will issue Al Alim Muthawassitha Certificate only to
those who have passed in both of these Examinations. A candidate
can obtain the certificate by properly applying to the Department of
Examinations.
16. Al Alim Sanaviyyah Certificate Examination (Year 2015 and
thereafter).
Details of Examination :
This Examination consists of six question papers, one for each of
the following six subjects. Each question paper will be of 3 hours
duration :
1. Al Lukathul Arabiyyah Arabic Language and
Wal Adhab - II Literature - II
2. Al Qur'an Wa'ulumuhu The Qur'an and its sciences
3. Al Hadhees Wa'ulumuhu Hathees and its sciences
4. Al Fikh ul Islami Wausuluhu Islamic Law and its
fundamentals
5. Al Hazharathul Islamiyya Islamic civilization
6. Al Akeethathul Islamiyya Islamic theology
17. Sylabus :
1. Al Lukathul Arabiyyah Arabic Language and
Wal Adhab - II literature - II
Ability to organize and express thoughts and ideas, ability to
translate from Arabic to Sinhala/English/Tamil and knowledge in Arabic
grammar at the level given on the book Iynul Hudha
fisharhikathrinnadha will be tested. Translation passages not given
on the text book, translation of Sinhala/English/Tamil texts into Arabic
language and features of literature given on the text book will also be
tested.
Prescribed Text Book :
(a) Al Arbiyathul Linnashi’een volumes 4, 5, 6 - Mahmoodh
Ismail Zeeni, Nasir Mustapha Abdul Azeez, Mukthar
Thahir Hussain ;
(b) Al Qira'athur Rashidha volume - 3 (lessons 1-15) Abul
Hassan Ali (Nadhvi) ;
(c) An Nahwul Walih (Al Marhala Sanaviyyah) 1, 2, 3 : Ali Al
Jasim, Mustafa Ameen ;
(d) Iynul Hudha be sharahikathrinnatha - Assheik Udman Al
Bannani ;
(e) Al Falakathul Wadhiha (Kismul bayan wal bathee'u). Ali
Jasim, Mustafa Ameen.
2. Al Qur'an Waulumuhu (The Qur'an and its Sciences).– Detailed
knowledge of the contents of specified Surahs and comprehension of
the Sciences of Quran will be tested.
Prescribed Text Books :
(a) Safwathuth thabasir - Muhammed Ali Assabooni
Surha Al mulk, Al Waqia, AnNoor, Al Hujrath, Al Kahfu
and Sura Yaseen
(b) Aththibyan Fi Ulumil Qur'an - Muhammed Ali Assabooni.
3. Al Hadhees Wa Ulumuhu - Hathees and its Sciences.– Hathees
given in the prescribed text books, their content and application and
effects of these in practical life will be tested. Technical terms related
to Hadhees and their understanding ; knowledge of studies and
contribution made by forefathers in order to safeguard Hadhees will
also be tested.
Prescribed Text Books :
(a) Buloohul Maram - Ibnu hajar Al Askalani (Chapters from
Thahara to Nikah) ;
(b) Mishkathul Masabeeh - Al Imam Waliyudeen Aboo
Abdullah Muhammath Ibnu Abdullah Al Katheeb (Rah)
(The following parts, Al Iman, Al Ihthisam bil kethabi was
sunnah, Al Ilmu, Fala'ilul Qur'an, Al Adhab, Al Fithan, Al
Manaqib) ;
(c) Thaiseer Mustalahil Hadhees - Mahmood Aththahan.
4. Al Fikh ul Islami Wusooluhu - Islamic Law and its
Fundamentals.– Based on the prescribed text books, knowledge of

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2012
94
Fihk and Usoolul fikh and understanding of the way it is practiced in
practical life will be tested.
Prescribed Text Books :
(a) Umthathussalik wauthathunnasik - Imam Shahabudeen
Ahamed Ibnu anna keeb Ashshafeeli ;
(b) Sharahul warakath bee llmi Usoolil Fikhi - Jalaludeen
Muhammah Ibnu Ahamed Almahalli Ashshafie ;
(c) Thasheelul Wusool lla Fahmi llmil Usool.
5. Al hazharathul Islamiyya - Islamic Civilization.– Based on the
prescribed text books Islamic History from the period of Umaiya
Qilafath upto the fall of Usmaniya Qilafath and about the development
of Islamic Civilzation will be tested.
Prescribed Text Book :
Aththarikul Islami - Ibrahim bin mahmooth abdurrali.
6. Al Akeethathul Islamiyyah - Islamic Theology
Knowledge and understanding of Islamic Akeedha and application
of it in day to day life will be tested based on the prescribed text
book.
Prescribed Text Book :
Jawharathuth thawheedh - Al Imam Ibrahim Al-Likayi ; or
Akeedathut Thahaweyyah - Al Imam Aboo Jawfer Ahamath
Ibnu salma Aththahavi.
18. Structure of Question Paper.– Each question paper consists
of two parts (part I and part II).
Part I : All questions in part I are compulsory. Each of the 10
short answer type questions in this part will carry four marks,
making total marks for this part forty.
Part II : One essay type question and six semi structure questions
are there in this part. Essay type question is compulsroy and carries
twenty marks. Selected four questions from the six semi structured
questions should be answered. Each question has two parts a and b.
Each of this part carry 5 marks making the total marks for a question
ten and the total for Part II sixty.
19. Criteria for a pass in the Examination :–
Total marks for each paper is 100. Pass marks is 40.
Those who pass in all six subjects in this exam is considered to
have passed this exam. A candidate who passes in five subjects but
fails only in the sixth subject is considered as a referred candidate. If
such a candidate passes in the failed subject in one of the two
immediately succeeding examination diets he/she will also be
considered to have passed in this examination.
Grades will be awarded as shown below :–
Marks Grades
00-39 W
40-54 S
55-64 C
65-74 B
75-100 A
Certificate.– Al Alim Sanaviyyah Certificate will be issued to
those who pass both in Al Alim Sanaviyyah Certificate Examination
and any three subjects excluding General English and Common
General Test in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted by the
Department of Examinations. This certificate can be obtained by
prompthy applying to the Department of Examinations. However
all those who sit for in Al Alim Sanaviyyah Examination will be
issued individual result sheets. The G . C. E. (A/L) Examination is
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. The
candidate can sit for the examination according to the rules and
regulations governing that examination.
Release of the Examination Results and Criteria for Pass.– Those
who pass in all six subjects in Al Alim Sanaviyyah Certificate
Examination are considered to have passed the Examination. Those
who fail only in one subject are cosnidered as referred candidates. If
the candidate passes the failed subject within two immediately
succeeding examination diets he/she will also be considred to have
passed in the Al Alim Sanaviyya Examination.
20. If any discrepancies are found between the Sinhala, Tamil and
English version of this Examination Scheme, the Tamil Language
version should be considered as the right one.
21. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
will be final in any matter that is not mentioned herein.
A
NURA EDIRISINGHE,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
21st December, 2011.
01–444
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.