

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.   7.00                                                                                                                   Postage  : Rs.   4.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  March  27 , 2002
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
[Certified  on 25th March,  2002]
COMPETENT AUTHORITY
(POWERS AND FUNCTIONS)
 ACT,  No.  3  OF  2002


<!-- page 2 -->

Competent Authority (Powers and Functions)
Act, No. 3  of  2002
1
2—H 013391—5,550  (2002/02)
  [Certified on 25th March , 2002]
L.D—O. 5/2002.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  POWERS  AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  THE
C OMPETENT  A UTHORITY  APPOINTED  BY  THE  ELECTION
C OMMISSION  UNDER  THE  CONSTITUTION   ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR
MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Competent Authority
(Powers and Functions) Act, No. 3  of 2002.
2. The Competent Authority appointed under sub-
paragraph (c) of paragraph (5) of Article 104B of the
Constitution (hereinafter referred to as the “Competent
Authority”) to take over the management of the Sri Lanka
Broadcasting Corporation or the Sri Lanka Rupavahini
Corporation, as the case may be, shall exercise and discharge
the following powers and functions :—
(a) carry on the radio or television broadcasting services,
as the case may be, while maintaining in the public
interest and in the conduct of a free and fair election
or referendum, high standards in programming ;
(b) register persons engaged in the production of
television or radio programmes relating to an election
or a referendum, as the case may be, which
programmes are intended to be broadcast ;
(c) exercise supervision and control over programmes
broadcast by the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation
or the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, as the case
may be, relating to an election or a referendum ;
(d) advise the Minister in respect of matters relating to
broadcasting which are connected with the holding
of an election or a referendum ;
Short Title.
Powers and
functions of the
Competent
Authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

Competent Authority (Powers and Functions)
Act, No. 3   of  2002
2
(e) exercise and perform in relation to any broadcast
pertaining to an election or a referendum as the case
may be, all such powers and functions as are conferred
or imposed on or assigned to, either the Sri Lanka
Broadcasting Corporation or the Sri Lanka Rupavahini
Corporation as the case may be, by the Sri Lanka
Broadcasting Corporation  Act, No. 37 of 1966 or the
Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation Act, No. 6 of 1982
respectively ;
(f) establish, install and operate broadcasting apparatus ;
(g) acquire by way of lease, sublease or otherwise any
land or interest in land, with or without any building ;
(h) erect, alter or reconstruct any broadcasting apparatus
or any building or structure on any land belonging to
or administered by the Sri Lanka Broadcasting
Corporation or the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation,
as the case may be, for the use in connection with any
broadcasting station or in connection with the exercise
and discharge of its powers and functions ;
(i) acquire by lease or otherwise, during the period for
which the Competent Authority is appointed, any
property, rights or privileges that it considers necessary
for exercising and discharging of its powers and
functions ;
(j) with the prior approval of the Election Commission
and subject to any other terms and conditions which
may be imposed in that behalf, advance money to any
person or body of persons whether incorporated or
unincorporated, producing or intending to produce
programmes for broadcast,  pertaining to the election
or a referendum, as the case may be, whether in
conjunction with any other business or not, or give in
respect of any advance made to any such person or
body of persons as aforesaid by a second person, any
guarantee, indemnity or security ;

<!-- page 4 -->

Competent Authority (Powers and Functions)
Act, No. 3  of  2002
3
(k) use the facilities and equipment belonging to the Sri
Lanka Broadcasting Corporation or the Sri Lanka
Rupavahini Corporation, as the case may be, in such
a manner as the Competent Authority considers fit for
the purpose of promoting and assisting any broadcast
pertaining to an election or a referendum ;
(l) during the period for which the Competent Authority
is appointed, take on lease or rent houses, sites and
erect houses for the use of such officers and servants
appointed by such Authority ;
(m ) publish or arrange for the publication of such
periodicals or other publications as it considers
necessary or beneficial ;
(n) refuse to televise, record or broadcast any
advertisement in any form, the televising, recording
or boardcasting of which is not in the public interest ;
(o) act in combination or association with any person or
body of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, within Sri Lanka or abroad, in the
exercise or discharge of the powers or functions
specified in the section ; and
(p) do all such acts or things which in the opinion of the
Competent Authority is necessary for the conduct of
a free and fair election or, a referendum, as the case
may be.
3. In the exercise and discharge of the powers and
functions under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of section
2, it shall be the duty of the Competent Authority as far as
practicable, to be satisfied, that the programmes broadcast by
the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation or the Sri Lanka
Rupavahini Corporation as the case may be, comply with the
following conditions, in addition to any guidelines which the
Election Commission may issue from time to time :—
(a) that any programme broadcast by either the Sri Lanka
Broadcasting Corporation or the Sri Lanka Rupavahini
Corporation as the case may be, shall not include
Competent
Authority to be
satisfied of
compliance with
certain conditions.

<!-- page 5 -->

Competent Authority (Powers and Functions)
Act, No. 3   of  2002
4
anything which is against good taste or decency, or
which is likely to incite a person to commit a crime,
or which may lead to disorder, or be such as to offend
any racial or religious susceptibilities, or to be
offensive to public feeling ;
(b) that the programmes broadcast shall maintain a proper
local, regional and international balance with regard
to the subject matter dealt with, and also generally to
maintain a high standard of quality ;
(c) that any news presented through any such programme
shall be presented with due accuracy and impartiality
and with due regard to the public interest.
4. Any suit or prosecution instituted in a court of law by
or against the Competent Authority for any act or omission in
furtherance of the powers and functions assigned under this
Act, shall be deemed as an action instituted by or against the
State.
5. The Competent Authority may appoint such officers
and servants as may be necessary for the implementation of
the provisions of this Act, and any officer or servant so
appointed shall be deemed to be a public officer.
6. The  Competent Authority and the officers and servants
appointed under section 5 of this Act, may be paid such
remuneration computed at such amount as may be determined
by the Election Commission which shall be a charge on the
Consolidated Fund.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Suit or
prosecution
against the
Competent
Authority to be
considered a suit
or prosecution
against the State.
Officers and
servants.
Remuneration of
Competent
Authority etc.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

Competent Authority (Powers and Functions)
Act, No. 3  of  2002
5
8. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“broadcasting” means television or radio broadcast and
includes any signal, announcement, item,
communication, picture or other matter to be
broadcast for reception by the public ;
“Election Commission”  means the  Election Commission
established under Article 103 of the Constitution ;
“guidelines” means the guidelines issued by the Election
Commission under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph
(5) of Article 104B of the Constitution.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Competent Authority (Powers and Functions)
Act, No. 3   of  2002
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.