

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
921
921
wxl 1"917 - 2015 uehs ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'05'29
No. 1,917 – FRIDAY , MAY 29, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 923
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th June, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th June,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,916 of 22.05.2015 was not published.
(ii) The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in June to September, 2012 was registered under the printers' and publishers' ordinance
has been published in Part V of this Gazette in English Language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
922
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
923
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Amendment of the Notice of Calling Application for Registrar of Marriages and Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, for the Division appearing in t he following
schedule the post and division of the application which was published by me in the Gazette No. 1907 dated 20.03.2015 have been changed
as follows hence and the closing date will be extended to 22.06.2015.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
07th May, 2015.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Incorrect                                      Correct
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Registrar of Marriages Post of Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
(General/Kandyan) of Marriages (General/ Registrar  General, District
Udapalatha Division and Births Kandyan) of Udunuwara Secretariat,  Kandy.
and Deaths of Medapalatha and Yatinuwara Division
Division and Births and Deaths of
Medapalatha Division
05–665
–––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC   SERVICE   COMMISSION
Calling Applications for the Recruitment of Officers to the Post of Assistant Director (Legal) of the Commission to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption
APPLICATIONS are called by order of the Public Service Commission to select eligible candidates for fifteen (15) vacancies of the post
of Assistant Director (Legal) of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption. Applications prepared according to
the specimen given in this notice should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director General, Commission to Investigat e
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, No. 36, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07 on or before the date given below. "Post of Assistant
Director (Legal)" should be clearly indicated on top left hand corner of the envelope.
(a) Closing date of applications is 30.06.2015.
Note.– Complaints on the delay or loss of an application or any other related letter in the post will not be entertained.
Applicants themselves should bear any loss or damage resulted in delaying applications until the closing date.
1. Method of Recruitment. – Eligible applicants will be recruited for the posts vacant in the order of merit upon a structured
interview.
Number of appointments and the effective date of appointment will depend on the order of the Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
924
2. Service Conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) The officers appointed to this post will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years and should pass the First
Efficiency Bar Examination within such period of three (03) years. (If a person currently holding a permanent post in
public service is selected he or she will be subject to a period of surveillance for one year.
(iii) As per Public Administration Circulars No. 07/2007 and 01/2014 and circulars incidental thereto, the selected candidates
should acquire proficiency in the other language within five (05) years. Officers, who have joined the service in a
medium of language other than an official language, should acquire proficiency in one official language within five (05)
years and acquire the proficiency in the other official language within five (05) years.
(iv) This appointment will be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
3. Salary Scale.– Salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 28,095 - 5x 645 - 5x 790 -15x1,050 - Rs. 51,020 (Salary Code -
SL 5-2006).
4. Qualifications Requierd.– Educational/Professional Qualifications and Experience :
Should be an Attorney-at-Law sworn-in the Supreme Court.
Educational qualifications acquired will be an added qualification.
Experience in the field will be treated as a special qualification.
5. Age limit.– Should not be below 22 years and over 45 years as at 30.06.2015 (The maximum age limit will not be applicable
to the officers currently in Public Service/Provincial Public Service).
6. Physical Qualifications :
(i) Every candidate should be fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be physically and mentally fit to discharge duties of the post.
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens.
(ii) Applicants should be of excellent moral character.
(iii) Applicants should fulfill in every respect all the erquired qualifications stated in the Notice/Gazette Notification calling
for applications on the closing date of applications.
8. Interview :
8.1 Structured Interview.– Marks will be awarded by a board of interview appointed by the Public Service Commission.
8.2 Marking Scheme for the interview will be as follows.
Main areas for which marks are awarded Maximum Minimum marks
 following scrutiny Marks considered for
selection
Educational Qualifications 20
Subject related activities 20
Experience as an Attorney-at-Law : 20
1. Experience in appearing in court proceedings
2. Experience in a public institution other than the Attorney General's Department
3. Experience in prosecuting and appearing on behalf of the Attorney General
Knowledge in criminal law, current legal issues, new acts and regulations and judgments 20 Not applicable
related to bribery or criminal actions
Language proficiency 10
Skill shown at the interview 10
Total 100

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
925
9. (i) The application should be prepared in A4 papers of 22-
29cm as in such a manner that items 1 to 9 appear on the
first page and the candidates should fill the application in
their own handwriting legibly. Incomplete applications
and the appilcations not prepared according to the
specimen will be rejected without notic. It is advisable to
keep a copy of the application with the appilcant.
Furthermore, the applicant should ensure as to the
completed application complies with the specimen
appended to the Gazette Notificaiton and otherwise the
application will be rejected.
(ii) Identity of the applicant.– Applicants should produce the
originals of the following certificates on notice.
(i) Educational certificates,
(ii) Birth certificates,
(iii) National Identity Card,
(iv) Certificates of experience (supported by certificates
issued by a Judicial Officer or an Attorney-at-Law
with professional experience not less than 10 years).
(v) Two character certificates (one of which should be a
certificate issued by a Grama Niladhari counter-signed
by the Divisional Secretary)
N. B.–
(a) No documents or copies thereof should be attached to
the application.
(b) Applications of the candidates, failing to submit
documents upon request shall not be entertained.
Applications from officers in public service be submitted
through the Head of the Department/Institution. Signature
of the candidate should be attested by a Principal of a
Government School/Justice of Peace/Commissioner for
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/Commissioned
Officer of the Tri-forces or a Government Officer holding
permanent post in public service drawing monthly
consolidated salary of Rs. 22,935.
10. This post shall be subject to the Procedural Rules of the
Public Service Commission, circulars issued with respect to public
service from time to time, the Service Minute and the amendments
made thereto.
11. Public Service Commission reserves the right of making final
decision whether to fill the vacancies or only part thereof.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
D
ILRUKSHI DIAS WICKRAMASINGHE PC.,
Director General,
Commission to Investigate Allegations
of Bribery or Corruption.
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption,
No. 36,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
P
OST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (LEGAL)
COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF
BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Personal address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Official address :––––––––––––.
(If employed in public service)
03. (i) Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Date :–––––––.
(ii) Age as at 30.06.2015 :
Years :–––––––,  Months :––––––, Days :–––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Race :––––––––––––.
06. Gender :––––––––––––.
07. (i) Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
(ii) Professional Qualificaitons :––––––––––––.
Professional experience as at 30.06.2015 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days :–––––––.
08. Whether a person considered to be dimissed from service or
subject to vacation of post :––––––––––––.
09. (i) Whether convicted by a court of law for an offence :
––––––––––––.
(ii) If "yes", give details :––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the foregoing particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct. Furthermore, I am aware
that I will not be eligible for the post if any of the above particulars
were proven false before the selection and will be subject to dismissal
from service without any compensation in case any of such
particulars are found to be inaccurate after being appointed.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
926
Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ of
.......................................... is personally known to me and he/she
has placed the signature before me on ................ day of .....................
2015.
Signature of the Attestor :––––––––––––.
Name and Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Official stamp :––––––––––––.
Note.– Signatures of the candidates currently in public servic should
be attested by the Head of the Department or an authorized
officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
If the applicant is in public service :
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is
currently serving in this Department and he/she shall be/shall not
be released from his/her service if he/she is selected to this post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Department :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
05–820
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.