

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 28.11.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2151$50 - 2019 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'11'28
No. 2151/50 -  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER  28, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PILGRIMAGE  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  175)
The Pageant in which the Statute of Deity Sri  Sumana Saman and The Enclouser Casket with Relics will
be carried to the Sri-Pada
EIGHT years after the entering into the world great Buddha-hood, place the respectful foot emblem on the top of the
Samantha-Kuta Summit in view of the invitation of the deity Sri Sumana Saman and made Sri Lanka purified. On that day
onwards it was respected and worshiped and reverenced by the Kings and high esteems :-
The statute of the deity Sri Sumana Saman is deposited in the Deity's Palace in the Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara
Temple situated in Galpoththawala of Kuttapitiya Village in the Pelmadulla of Nawadum Korale of Ratnapura District in
the Sabaragamu Province during the off season.
1. On the day before full moon poya of  Unduwap of the year 2019, the ceremonial pageant in which the statute of
the deity Sri Sumana Saman and the Enclosure Casket with relics will be carried on auspisious hour from
Galpoththawala Sri Rajamaha Vihara to mount Samantha-Kuta as follows :
* The statute of the deity will be open to devotees for offerings and worshipping from 09.12.2019 at
evening to 10.12.2019 early morning.
* Early in the morning of 10.12.2019, the pageant will start from Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara.
I. on 2019.12.10 after the buddha pooja early morning the vehicle pageant will be conducted from
Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla, Rathnapura, Kuruwita, Eheliygoda, Awissawella,
Dehiowita, Karawanella, Yatiyanthota, Ambagamuwa, Hatton, Maskeliya, Nall-thanni.
II. on 2019.12.10 early morning the vehicle pageant will be conducted from Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja
Maha Vihara to Pelmadudlla Town, Ganegama, Pathakada, Sannasgama,  Dippitigala, Lellopitiya,
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G   31594— 27  (11/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 28.11.2019
2A
Welimaluwa, Pathulpana, Pelwadiya, Thiriwanaketiya, Batugedara, Warakathota, Kudugalwaththa, Urban
Council, clock tower, Dharmapala Mawatha,  Moragahayata, Panadura Road, Galkaduwa, reache,
Sabaragamuwa Maha Saman Devalaya and return to Moragahayata, Hospital Junction, Weralupe Junction,
New Town Moragahayata, Hidellena Vidyalaya Mawatha, Farmgarden Junction, New Town, Weralupe
Junction, Moragahayata, Pergasan Road, Bus stop, Kudugal Waththa thorugh Godigamuwa Malwala Road,
to Sri Palabathgala Raja maha vihara, held the vehicle pageant with Kuruwita Eranda pageant conducted
from Galpothawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla, Ganegama, Pathakada, Sannasgama, Thipitigala,
Lellopitiya, Welimalua, Pathupana, Pelwadiya, Thiruwanaketiya, Batugethara, Warakathota, Kudugal Waththa,
Urban Council, Clock Tower, near the Dharmapala Mawaththa, Moragahayata, Galkaduwa, reach Saman
Dhewalaya done Buddha pooja, and return Kahangama Holipitiya, Gorakaela junction through pahathgama
to Kuruwiya town Katuthiyambarawa through eknaligoda to reach Warnagala through Eratna Road, After the
Palabathgala pageant, held the Pilgrimage.
III. ON 2019.12.10 early Morning from Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla Town,
Iddamalgoda, Meegahagoda, Rambuka Bodhi, Morathota Junction, Hunuwala,  Delgasgawa, Opanayaka,
Udawela, Welage, Balangoda, Elle arawa, Morahela,  Pinnawala reach Bolthumbe Saman Dewalaya return
to through Marathenna, Bagawanthalawa Norwood, Hatton Junction  Maskeliya  to  Nall-Thanniya.
Thereafter through Royal road  and Hatton road the statute of the deity and the enclosure casket with relics
will be  carried in “Dolawa” upto the top of the Samantha Kuta Summit and the pageant and the ceremony
will be ended.*
* The priority should be given to vehicles nominated by the Chief Incumbent Thero and the other vehicles
should follow -suit after those vehicles without obstructing the line-up.
2. Here by declare that trading in the temple premises is prohibited. The conducting of trading activities and dansal
could be done along the main road and the by-roads upto the Sri Pada Vihara but without any obstruction to the
devotees and the Pageant.
3. Hereby declare that collection of aids and contributions are prohibited from Pelmadulla Town up to Sri Pada
Temple premises.
4. Hereby declare that parking of private vehicles from the main road to Sri Pada Temple obstructing the devotees
and pageant is prohibited.
5. The Ceylon Electricity Board and the Pradeshiya Sabhawa of Pelmadulla are entrusted with the work of fixing
street lamps and extra lamps in the temple premises and its surroundings roads.
6. Prior to and after the pegeant festival matters related to health care and sanitary and removal of garbage are
entrusted with the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabhawa and office of the medical officer of health.
7. The branch office of the Water Supplies and Drainage Board is entrusted with the work of provision of water by
keeping extra water tanks.
8. The police and security services are entrusted with all sort of security measures on the traffic controlling required
for uninterrupted conduct of the pageant and moments of devottees.
9. The statute and the relics will be worshipped and offerings will be given at the Sri Pada Station for six months and
after the day of coming Wesak Poya day those will be deposited at Deity's Palace at Raja Maha Vihara of
Galpoththawala and worshipped and offerings will be given. The above 8 orders are valid until to that day.
B. S. G. R
UWANSIRI,
Divisional Secretary,
Pelmadulla.
12 - 435
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.