

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2060$32 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks fikiqrdod - 2018'03'03
No. 2060/32 -  SATURDAY   MARCH  03,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
 NORTH   CENTRAL   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
North Central  Province   Council Preventing Public Health Nuisances  Statute  No.  02  of   2017
THE aforesaid passed by the North Central Provincial Council of Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic & the assent by the
Hon. Governor on 30th January 2018 is hereby, there, published by me for information.
                 H. L. S. WIJESINGHA,
                 Secretary,
                  North Central Provincial Council.
North Central Provincial Council,
19th February 2018.
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG 3935 — 307 (03/2018)


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
2 A
STATUTE   OF   PREVENTING   PUBLIC   HEALTH   NUISANCES   OF   THE   NORTH
CENTRAL   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL   NO. 02  OF  2017
This Status is for planing the rules and regulations to uplift and conserve the public health, prevent the
nuisance and diseases spreading through mosquitoes, control other public health nuisances and matter
related or consequential to them. The Statute is incompatible to the nuisances Activity Ordinance Act, No.
15 of 1882 amended by Act, No. 61 of 1939 and Act, No. 57 of 1946 and Breeding of Mosquito and prevention
Act, No. 11 of 2007.
The powers vested by law on the provincial Administrative Institutions will not be deprived or limited by
this Statute.
The North Central Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka Declares
is follows.
01. This Statute will be called as the Statute of   Preventing  Public Health  Nuisance of the North  Central
Provincial Council No. 02 of 2017 and it will be effective from the date of assent by the Governor.
That date should be notified through a Gazette Notification by the Minister.
Part I
Offences
02. Under this statute, the actions statutes below are offences.
(a) Throwing or depositing or allowing to enter animal excreta or any filthy dirt, garbage or anything
that emits a bad smell or something that is unclean or that emits a bad smell or allowing to flow
from or wash out from  or enter from their house or building or land or allowing any amount of
similar water to become unclean or polluted in to any drain, moat, waterway, lake, reservoir,
water well, water vessel, flowing water or irrigation by any person.
(b) Keeping or allowing to keep things such as an animal, excreta, meat, fish, fruits or vegetable that
are unsuitable for human consumption in a market, shop, building, bazaar, a place used to sell
meat, birds such as kitchen, fish, fruits or vegetables or keeping of  allowing to keep in any such
place or street by any person.
(c) By any person, selling or presenting or publicly displaying anything that is in an unsuitable
condition to be used as human food or drink or knowing that is in a unsuitable condition or with
the belief that there is reason for it to be unsuitable.
(d) Any person throwing or putting or causing his/her servant to do so, any soil, waste water or
rubbish or dirt or ash or broken glass or earthenwear pots or any other debris or  any article  or
material or liquid in such a manner that it is a hindrance to the health, on to a road or public place
or to be a by - road or drain.
(e) Washing vehicles on a main road, street, highway, foot path or an entry road using water from
water mass/column or water well or any source of water, by any person, in such a manner that
it makes them unclean or is a nuisance to the public health.
(f) Causing or allowing any animal or animals to pass faeces or urinate, by any person, on any main
road, highway, street, foot path, entry road, or public place.
(g) Allowing keep any rubbish, animal parts,, litter or any other thing that emits noxious smell or
stench, without depositing it in a relevent vessel or in a place well covered, keeping such vessel
Long Name.
Short Title and
Date of
implementation.
Putting Waste
material in to
Water.
Keeping things
that are unsuitable
for human
consumption for
selling.
Selling, harmful
things as food.
Throwing garbage
on to a road or
drain or public
place.
Washing Vehicles.
Animals defilling
an entry road or
public places.
Keeping garbage
or any such thing.

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
in state of loath some or stench or neglecting without taking suitable action to depose the
things from it and clean it by any person who resides in a house, building or land or else in a
road, street or main road, or near such a place in a populated area.
(h) Keeping or allowing to keep a place unclean or in a manner detrimental or bothersome to the
health of any person or allowing such a place to be overgrown with plants in a manner
bothersome to public health by the owner of a rentable or non-rentable house, building or
land situated by a side certain road, street or highway or by any person residing in such a place.
(i) No person shall burn polythene, plastic articles or poisonous chemical in any open place
surface of any house, building or land by a person residing in or owing such a place.
(k) Rearing cattle, goats, swine's, Chicken, ducks, turkeys and other birds against formal standards
imposed by the rules and regulations, ordinance acts, Statutes or conditions in such a manner
that is a nuisance or detrimental to the public or the health of any person.
(l) Any person, whoever he/she may own a house, building or a parapet wall leaving it in a
crumbling state or leaving a house or a building in a state of risk to the persons residing in
them or to the houses and buildings in the neighborhood or to those who reside in them or
passers - by.
(m) Allowing waste or stagnated water to be in a place inside one's place of living or allowing
toilet or cess pit material to overflow or to leak out by any person.
(n) Even though under a license obtained from a relevent authority utilized any place situated
within the area of authority of the North Central Province Provincial council for certain
workshop or place of business in a manner detrimental to public health or violating the
conditions stated in that license.
(o) No person shall keep or store any drug chemical in a manner so as to be a nuisance to or
injurious to the health of any person.
(p) Anyone making amplifications, broadcasts, or transmits very load sound through sound
systems or television or any other media in any residential area, commercial place or an open
place where there is movement of people in such a manner that it is a hindrance to the public.
(q) Anyone, in a private residence, amplifying, broadcasting, or transmitting very loud  sound
through a sound systems, radio, television or cassette player or any such appliance in such
a manner that is a hindrance to the neighboring residential place in that environment.
(r) Engaging in trade activities, production food items, engaging in technical activities, involvement
in industrial work, conducting a industry  or acting in such a manner that it generates sound
that is oppressive to residential places, schools, hospitals or other places where people live or
where there is movement of people or doing any other thing which creates oppressive sound,
which is detrimental to public health by any individual in a house or trade place or hostel or
restaurant in any environment.
When deciding the sound levels for the sub clauses, (o), (p) and (q) sound limits imposed by
the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subsequent amendments to the said act.
(s) Carrying out unauthorized construction, repairing motor vehicles or machinery or storing,
depositing or putting building materials, damaged materials or timber or sown wood or any
Open Burring of
polythene, Plastic
articles or
poisonous chemicals
an offence
Storing of any
drugs, chemicals and
gases to be nuisance.
Creating hidrance
through radio or
any other media.
Keeping a place
unclean
Rearing animals
such as cattle, goats,
pigs etc.
Leaving houses etc.
in a dilapidated state
or to dilapidation.
Allowing waste or
stagnated water to
stagnate further.
Keeping a workshop
in such a manner
that it is
detrimental to
public health.
Oppressions created
through sound.
Engaging in trade
activities in a
manner that
generates sound.
Obstructing drains
and roads

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
4 A
type of material by any individual on the main roads, streets, high ways, foot paths, sidewalks,
or drain maintained in relation to the roads in a manner that obstruct them.
(t) putting or allowing to flow waste  water or toilet and/ or urinal waste that is deposed from any
private or public premises, by any person, on to a main road, street, highways, foot path, access
road, or in to a drain of such or a land adjacent to a public place.
(u) Creating on obstacle on a water way that is a natural path of draining of water.
Part II
Legal Action
03.
(1) Any person who ever he/ she may, engaging in any of the offences stated above in sub
clauses a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, and i of clause will be an offender under this statute.
(2) According the above sub clause 1 any person guilty of any offence, when found guilty after
a summery trail in the presence of a magistrate, the magistrate could order  fine of not less than
Rupees five Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five Thousand.
(3) The amount imposed as a fine in the clause 3(2) above shall credited to the provincial Council
Fund by the magistrate.
Part III
Issuing Notices
04. (1) According to the rules and regulations stated under the sub clauses j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t and
u of the above clause 2. On the occasion if the relevant officer or the authorized officer finds
that in any premises or anything that is kept or being maintained there is detrimental to the
public health then the relevant officer or the authorized officer cloud order through a written
notice to the owner or the resident or the caretaker of that premises to follow or take one or
more of the steps stated  in that written notice within the period started specifically in that
notice.
(a) To maintaining cleanly a house, building or land located in any street, highway or public road
or in the neighborhood of such a place in such a manner that it is not detrimental to the health
of any person.
(b) To remove from that place a moat, a gutter, a drain, a pit, and cesspit or any such thing or a
vessel which emits bad adour that is detrimental to public health or arranging such a place in
a manner that is not oppressive to the public.
(c) to rear cattle, goats, pigs, ducks, turkeys, or other birds in such a mannner that is not
detrimental to public health.
(d) To arrange or remove a dilapidated house, building or parapet wall so that it will not be a
danger to the residents or the neighbors.
(e) To remove or not construct any fence, parapet wall, concrete or iron covering on any street,
road, path or public drain, in a manner obstructing that street, road path or drain.
(f) To avoid allowing waste or polluted water to stagnate in any place within the place by any
residing in that place or stop the material in a toilet or a cesspit overflowing or leaking out.
Ability to impose a
fine for some
offences shown
unde clause 2.
Ability to order to
take some action
relevant to avoid
hindrance to public
health.
Allowing waste
water and toilet
water to flow
Obstacle on a
water way

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
(g) To take appropriate steps to maintain the functioning of any workshop or business place
without being oppressive to public health.
(h) To keep any article, metrical or liquid in a manner that it will not be oppressive or hindrance
to public health.
(i) To stop broadcast, transmits, or amplifying with high sound, through a sound system,
television or any other electronic media, in an open place where people move about or in a
place of business, in a manner that it is oppressive to the public.
(j) To stop broadcasting or transmitting or amplifying sound through a sound system, radio,
television or CD player or any such appliance with high sound within any private residential
place which is oppressive to neighboring residential places of that premises.
(k) To not engage in trade activities, poduction of food, engage in industrial activities, doing
workshop work or conducting an industry, which generates oppressive sound to residential
place, school, hospital or other places where people live or move about or stop such other
activity that generates any oppressive sound.
(l) To remove any unauthorized construction that obstructs a main road, road, foot path, sidewalk,
or a drain maintained in relation to a road, or not store or deposit or place building material,
damaged material, block of wood or sown wood or timber or not to carryout repairing of
motor vehicles and machinery.
(m) To not put or allow over following of waste water or toilet or urinal wastes discharged from
any private or public premises on to any main road, road, foot path, entry road or the drain in
that road or public place or adjoining land.
(n) Not to create obstruction or to remove obstruction to the flow of water along the natural
waterway that is there to allow water to flow.
Part  IV
Penalty and charges for non-compliance
(2) As per above stated sub clause 1 of clause 4 of this statute, any person who violating the
orders or neglecting to comply to the orders of prevent from carrying out or remove or stop
certain nuisance or thing which is detrimental to public health shall be an offender this
statute.
(3) Any person who is guilty of an offence according to the above sub clause  2 will be subjected
to a punishment under clause 8 of this statute.
Part V
Offences of mosquito breeding places
05. Owner / resident and or caretaker of every premises should take the following actions to assure
the actions of preventing and removing all diseases bred by mosquitos and destroying and
removing the breeding places of mosquitos.
(1) To remover destroy open tins, bottles, boxes, coconut shells, coconut hucks, tire or other
material or vessel containing water, which are contained in or within certain premises, or
dispose them usefully and safely in any other way in a manner water will not stagnate.
(2) Removing all obstacles so that water could flow well in rain gutters, gutters, and pipes, through
which water flows or drains.
Noncompliance to
orders stipulated
under sub clause
4(i) being an
offence.
Process of
preventing diseases
and oppressions
spread by
mosquitoes.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
6 A
(3) Maintaining in a good state the water vessels, water tanks, refrigerators, air conditioners, or
any other vessels in which water is stored or stagnated by keeping them closed or covered in
order to prevent breeding of mosquitoes.
(4) By maintaining any water well situated in the premises and its surrounding in a good state,
maintaining it in manner that mosquitoes cannot breed and through this preventing breeding
of mosquitoes.
(5) Keeping any artificial pond, water reservoir or pound in any premises in a manner those
mosquitoes.
(6) Removing the shrubs and plants that is congenial for water to stagnate in a manner that
mosquitoes could breed and any thicket and all kinds of plants that have become a place for
water to stagnate in a place whether it is situated inside or outside of any building of structure
that is located in any premises used as a residential place or suitably removing that denger.
(7) Removing or preventing any other background within or inside the premises that is congenial
for breeding of mosquitoes.
(8) In a premise where construction is being carried out, maintaining that premises in a manner
that mosquitoes will not breed there and in buildings that are with a concrete roof, that roof
should be maintained in such a manner that in no way water should stagnate on it.
(9) Maintaining without cavities by sealing water drainage pits or septic tanks of a premise  so as
mosquitoes breeding therein cannot come out, or prevent from using iron or P .V .C. pipes on
thoes pits that allow harmful air to emit.
Part VI
Spot Fine
06. (1) In any premises started in the above sub clauses 1 of clause 5, on occation when the relevent
officer or the authorized officer finds that mosquito larvae have been bred within that
environment in open tin , bottle, box, cocunut shell, cocunut husks or any other article or
article where water  is stagnated, when the owner, resident or caretaker of the place where the
offence has taken place accepts that offence, then on his wish instead of filling chargers in the
presence of a magistrate, the authorized officer could impose a spot fine of not less than
Rupees Five hundred and not more than Rupee Three Thousand in the presence of any
Government officer. The owner or the resident of that place should remove or destroy the
vessel or the article that is full of water which contains or not contains mosquito larva, in the
presence of the relevent officer or the authorized officer.
(1) The spot fine stated in 6(1) should be paid to a government post office situated in the authority
area of the North Central Provincial Council and receipt should be obtained and that receipt
shoul be submitted to the health Officer of that division within 10 days. If it is not carried out,
it is compulsory to file legal action against him / her in a magistrate court.
(2) The spot fine stated in 6(1) should be paid to the General Fund of the North Central Province
Provincial Council.
(3) Those who do not adhere to the oder stated in the above sub clause  1 of the clause 5 and the
places shown by the sub clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 the owners or residents of all premises,
where breeding of mosquito larva is allowed and where mosquito larva have beem bred, be
presented to the magistrate court of that division and filling action is compulsory according to
the clause 8 of this statute.
Ability to
impose a spot
fine on the
occasion of
finding that
there are
mosquito larvae.
Legal action may
be taken for
defaulted spot
pine payments.

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
Part VII
Order for Prevention Public nuisance.
07. According to the rules and regulations stated in the above clause 5, on the occasion when the
relevent authority or the authorized officer finds that in any premises or anything that has been
kept there or maintained there is congenial to breeding of mosquitos, the relevent authority or
authorized office could order the owner, resident or caretaker through a written notice to follow
or to take mecessary action on, within the specifically stated period in that notice, one or more
of the following actions.
 (1) To repair so as to properly let water to flow in rain gutters, pipes or drains, located within the
certain premises or certain building contained therein and are filled with water making those
places congenial to breeding of mosquitoes.
 (2) To maintained in good condition the water vessel or a tank to collect rain water, water tank,
refrigerator, air conditioner or any other vessel for collecting water in certain premises by
keeping it closed and convered and to construct or repair so that the water in it could be
disposed from time to time.
(3) Removing the water from a tank that collects rain water, water tank or a artificial pond or
reservoir, in any premises cleaning them, and when they are not used anymore, to close them by
the owner or the resident.
(4) To maintain any water well in the environment in such manner to prevent of mosquitoes.
(5) To fill up any excavation pit that allows collection of water and pollute it, unused water well,
cesspit, pond or any other place, moving the water from them or take other suitable action for it.
(6) To remove the water from marshy land, water courses and places where water stagnates in any
premises or removing the danger by biological methods.
(7) To remove, pluck off and destroy water plants or any other plant or plants that could hold water
that have been found to facilitate breeding of mosquitoes.
(8) To maintain a premise where construction is in progress or the buildings with concrete roof in
such a manner that water will not stagnate to breed mosquitoes.
(9) Maintaining without cavities by sealing water drainage pits or septic tanks of premises so as
mosquitoes breeding therein cannot come out, or prevent from fixing iron or P .V .C. pipes on the
concrete slabs that cover those pits.
(10)To take any other steps those are considered necessary by the authority or authorized officer.
Part VIII
Penalty and Charges for non-compliance
08. (1) Any person who does the offence shown under the clause 2 of this statute or violates any
oder to oders, imposed by the 5th clause of this statute or violates the order made according
to the clause 4 and or 7 or neglects to act accordingly to it, or any person stated in sub clause
4 of clause 6 is guilty of an offence under this statute.
(2) Any person, who is accused of any offence according to the above sub clause (1), after a
summery trail in the presence of a magistrate, when found guilty of the offence, is subject to a
punishment as started below.
Ability to order
the owner or
resident to take
specific action.
Not acting
according to the
oders imposed by
clauses 4, 5 and 7
is an offence.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
8 A
(a) If that offence is done for the first time the magistrate could impose a fine of not less than
Rupees Three Thousand and not more than Rupees Five Twenty Five thousand or not
more than 06 months light imprisonment or both punishments stated above.
(b) If the offence is done for the second time or after that the magistrate could impose a fine of
not less than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty Thousand or an
imprisonment not more than 06 months or both punishments shown above.
(3) Every person engaged in an offence under the sub clause (1), in the event of carrying out the
same offence even after the specific numbr of days allotted in the announcement made by the
authorized officer from the date of revelation of that offence, apart from the penalties mentioned
in sub clause (2), shall be subjected to an additional penalty of rupees two hundred (Rs. 200) for
each day that offence is continued.
(4) In addition to the imposement of the penalty stated in sub clause 8(2), when convicted on
neglecting to act in accordance with a task assigned under clause 7 of this statute, the owner
occupier or caretaker of that premises may be ordered by the magistrate to comply to the oders
given by the authorized officer and to act according to the said tasks in under to prevent
actions detrimental to public health.
Part IX
Issuing Orders by authorized officer and relevant authority
09. An owner, occupier or any person who has been issued with a written notice under clauses 4
and 7 of this statute, on the occasion neglecting to act in compliance to orders specified in that
notice or not taking action as per such orders within the time period allotted in that Notice, or in
an instance an caretaker cannot or difficult to be identified definitely, if the authority or his
authorized officer decides that the public nuisance should be removed immediately , the following
measures may be taken.
(1) Removing that public health nuisance, through the actions desided by the relevant authority,
under the supervision of the relevant authority or the authorized officer.
(2) Money spent as expences incurred for removing that public health nuisance or taking
neccessary steps should be paid by the owner or resident or relevant person of that premises
and according to the voucher given indicating that amount, that amount should be paid within
03 working days, The receipt thus obtained should be submitted to the office of the Medical
Officer of Health where that premises is located.
 (3) On the occasion that amount of money is not paid within the specified period and in the proper
manner a low suit should be filed in relevant magistrate court against that person or owner or
resident.
 (4) On occation when neglected the payment of money under sub clause (3) of clause 9, a certificate
containing the details about the amount of money that should be levied as expences incurred
on fulfilling that duty or tasking steps should be submitted by the ralevant authority or
authorized officer to the magistrate holding jurisdiction of that division. The magistrate could
oder to pay that amount of money stated in that certificate after a summery trail on leavying that
amount of money .
 (5) During the legal action relevant to above clause 3, when the relevant person is found guilty
according to clause 8(2) that person is livable to pay in addition to the applicable fine for
creating a public health nuisance and the cost nuisance and the cost of the steps taken by the
relevant authority or the representative of the relevant authority remove that nuisance and a
fine of 50% of the total amount of the file.
Relevant
auhority should
get work done or
take action.
Reimubursing
expenses
incurred as
expenditure
under clause 9.

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
 (6) Any amount of money imposed as fine under the sub clause 8(2), the amount of money imposed
as an additional fine under sub clause 8(3) and the amount of money imposed as an additional
fine under clause 9(5) should be remitted to the Provincial Council Fund by the magistrate.
10. (1) By the written notice sent, by the authority or authorized person, to the owner or resident or
any relevant person of any premises, that owner or resident could be ordered to spray, on the
advice of the relevant authority , the pestiside or biological control method stated in that notice
within the stated period on any pond, water vessel, reservior or any other place, which is
found to gather water and promotes public health nuisance.
(2) Every person who neglects to take action, within the stipulated period, according to the notice
issued as stated in the above sub clause (1) will be guilty of an offence under this stature and
on such an occation that person will be subject to the punishment stated under the sub clause
8 (2).
11. (1) A person vested with the authority to carry out or fulfill the work or duties of the relevant
authority or authorized officer under this statute, when that person carries out or fulfills that
work or duty lawfully, any owner, resident or any other person knowingly or willfully should
not show objection or obstruct the relevant authority or authorized officer or another person
vested with such authority.
(2) Any owner, resident or any other person who acts by violating the rules and regulations of the
sub clause (1) of this clause will guilty of an offence under this statute and convicted as guilty
after a  summery trail conducted in the presence of a magistrate should be subjected to fine of
not less than Rupees Ten Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty Thousand or imprisonment
for a period not more than six (6) months or both fine and imprisonment.
Part X
Legal Action for Neglect Order of Authorized Offices
12. (1) The owner resident or any other person should not knowingly or willfully take any situational
action that will make way to,
(a) Incomplete any step taken to prevent breeding of mosquitoes that is being carried out or
followed in any premises or
(b) Reduce the efficiency of any step taken to prevent any public health nuisance that is
being carried out or followed in any premises.
(2) Any owner, resident or any other person who acts by violating the rules and regulations of the
sub clause (1) will become guilty of an offence under this statute and convicted  as guilty after
a summery trail conducted in the presence of a magistrates should be subjected to fine of not
less than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five Thousand.
(3) In addition to the penalty stated in above sub clause (2), the magistrate order the action carried
out or action taken to reduce efficiency be ameliorated.
13. (1) In any premises when more than one person is resident or any property is jointly owned by
more than one person to enforce the rules and regulations of this statute, acting or neglecting
according to the orders imposed by this statute or under it, each such resident and each owner
should be subjected separately to the responsibility.
14. (1) Any drain, stream, waterway or marshy land, cemetery, garbage disposal place or any land,
entrusted to be maintained properly by any local government, institution situated within the
Spraying
pesticides.
Opposing or
obstructing the
relevant
authority and
such persons.
Decreasing the
efficiency of any
steps taken.
CO-owners and
CO-residents
should be
subjected
seperately.
When the local
government
institutions, etc

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
1 0 A
administrative limits of North Central Province Council or road Development authority or the
Provincial road Development Authority or urban Development Authority or low land
Development Board or any other authority or institution in the event it is found to have
become a place congenial for breeding of mosquitoes due to neglected or delay in properly
maintaining it by the said institution, the relevant authority has the power to issue order he /
she considers necessary or appropriate to correct that situation and prevent breeding of
mosquitoes.
(2) If there is any local government institution or Road Development Authority or provincial Road
Development Authority or Urban Development Authority or Lowland Development Board or
any other aithority or institution that neglects to take action according to any order issued sub
clause (1), it is guilty of an offence under this statute and the relevant authority should file a
law suit against that institution or should file legal action against any other authority appointed
to act on behalf of that institution under any low applicable to institutions.
Part XI
Power to entry of Premises
15. Under this statute, the relevant authority or authorized officer or an officer vested with power
by the relevant authority is empowered to entry any premises at an ordinary time.
 (1) To examine or inspect nuisances to public health or other nuisances in this statute.
 (2) The relevant authority or authorized officer or an officer vested with power by the relevant
authority is empowered to examine or inspect whether the action has been taken according to
the written instruction given to the resident or the owner.
Part XII
Power of relevant authority
16. (1) On any occasion considered to be necessary or appreciate by the relevant authority, to
implement or fulfill any work or duty assigned to him / her under this statute, authority could
be vested on the Director of Divisional Health Services of the North Central Province and if the
work or duty assigned to any officer, that work and duty should be fulfilled by that officer
under the control and supervision of the relevant authority.
 (2) Orders considered neccessary in relation to the rules and regulations of this statute and the
order made under them by the relevent authority could be carried out by the Director of
Divisional Health Services or a Medical officer of Health or the Provincial Administrative
Public Health Inspector or District Administrative public Health Inspector and every officer
who has received such oder should act accordingly to them.
 (3) Any officer who has been vested with the authority under the sub clause (1) of this clause,
when carrying out and fulfilling the work and duty so vested on him / her, should implement
the authority of entering and inspecting in the same manner as provided to the relevant
authority unde the clause 15 of this statute and any obstruction made to that officer will be an
offence under the clause 12 of this statute.
17. Whatever contradiction stated in the code of criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every
offence under this statute should be considered as a symbolic offence for the interpretation of
that Act and its function.
Authority to
entre and
axamine.
Assigning the
powers of the
relevant
authority.
Issuing orders by
the relevant
authority.
entrusted with
the maintenance
of drains, canals
etc, failed to
maintain them
they  should be
issued with an
order.
An offence
should be offence
symbolic.

<!-- page 11 -->

1 1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
18. Under the code of criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, for the matter of implementing the
authoity vested on all officers when fulfilling that work or duty by the relevant authority or
authorized officer and any other person who has been assigned his/ her work and duty,
according to the meaning of the code of criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, should be
considered as peace officers.
19. Under this statute, if a certain person is committing the offence the notice to be handed over
to that person could be personally handed over to him / her or to any other person residing in
that premises or by pasting it in a place where it could be obviously seen, or by making it to be
received through Registered post.
Part  XIII
Legal  Action
20. A prosecution for an offence under this statute or any regulations made there under shall not
be instituted.
(a) Except by an Authority Officers, and
(b) after the expiration of a period of three months from the date of detection of that offence.
Part  XIV
Regulation
21. North Central Province minister in charge of the subject could complie rules in relation to the
following matters.
 (1) (a) In relation to disposal of dust, ash, rubbish, dirt, fertilizer, animal, waste and faeces,
carcases kept collected in any place by the owner of any premises or resident or the
owner of any animal and in relation to avoid keeping such things collected, in a street
or on the side of a street sin a manner that it becomes on oppression to any person.
(b) For cleaning, covering or filling such places likes ponds, water courses, open ditches
drains, and letting to run water having or used to collect unclean water or things that
could be uncongenial to health.
(c) For purifying, cleaning, providing ventilation to and disinfecting houses, buildings,
religious places, any public place and places where people gather by the owners or
residents of any premises and those who are responsible for the safety of that premises.
(d) For avoiding and eradicating epidemics, situational diseases or contagious diseases
spread by touching.
(e) Formats that should be used for the purpose of oders complied under this statute and
format  used when filling a lawsuit at the court of law by the relevent officer or authorized
officer.
(f) Action that should be taken and the pestiside that should be used by the owner or
resident of any premises to avoid public health nuisances.
(g) Issuing guidelines for the eradication of disease spread through mosquitoes to avoid
public health nuisances.
Relevant
Authority and
such others
should be peace
authorities.
Handing over the
notice.
Institution of
proceedings.
Rules.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
1 2 A
(h) In relation to a penalty ordered by the court of law regarding an offence under this
statute, awarding to the authorized officer or officers who discovered the offence a
certain amount of the penalty levied as an incentive.
(i) In relation to any other matter necessary for the implementation of the rules and
regulations of this statute.
 (2) Every rule that is made by the minister should be punished in the Gazette and they should be
implemented from the date of publishing or from the date stated in that order.
 (3) Every Rule that is made by the minister, after publishing in the Gazette, should be presented
to the North Central Province Council for approval as soon as possible.
 (4) Any rule that is not so approved should be considered as invalid from the date of that
annulment, but there should not be any prejudice for anything that has been done earlier
under it.
 (5) The date of any rule that is considered as made invalid should be published in the Gazette.
22. The authority to carry out any work or duty assigned to the relevant authority under this statute,
when it is assigned to certain authorized officer under the sub clause (2) of the clause 16 of this
statute, according to the situation, in relation to any action, with good intention, carried out or
assumed to be carried out by that Authorized officer, no civil or criminal action should be taken in the
court against that Authorized officer.
23. Assisting in the actions taken under this statute to avoid public health nuisance is the responsibility
of all government officers incliding the police, civil security Task Force, Grama Niladhari and Local
government Institution's.
24. For the work of this statute the Director the Director of provincial Health services should be the
relevant authority and he / she should take the responsibility to apply the rules and regulations of
this statute fruitfully.
25. The implementation of the work, duties and authority of this statute should be carried out by the
relevant authority under the direction and supervision of the secretary to the ministry.
Part  XV
Authorized Officers
26. (1) At any occasion when the relevant authority consideres necessary and suitable, to implement
or fulfill any work for duty assigned to him / her under this statute, authorized officers could be
appointed under the control and supervision of the relevant authority.
(2) Under the above sub clause the authorized officers should be Directors of Divisional Health
Services, Medical officers of Health, Provincial Administrative public health inspectors, District
administrative public health inspectors, Administrative public health inspectors of the offices
of the medical officer of Health of the North Central Province, chief public Health Inspectors of
the relevant Local Government Institutions of the North Central Province and all other public
Health Inspectors. These authorized officers should be the Authorized officers only in their
duty area under this statute.
27. If there is any contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil, and English versions of this statute, then the
Sinhala version should enforced.
28. Unless an interpretation becomes necessary in relation to terms in this statute:
Security for
bona-fide acts.
Officers of public
service to
provide
assistance.
Relevant
Authority.
Authorized
officers.
Sinhala version is
valid when there
is contradiction.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 13 -->

1 3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
''Minister''
Means the Minister in charge of the subject of Health in the North Central Province Council.
''Secretary to the Ministry''
Means the Secretary to Ministry in charge of the subject Health in the North Central Province.
''Director of Provincial Health Services''
Means the Director of Health Services, North Central Province or any person appointed to perform
the duties  of that post or to cover the duties or to fulfill the duties.
''Director of Divisional Health Services''
Means the Directors of Divisional Health Services of the, North Central Province Provincial Council
Department of Health Services appointed for the Districts in the North Central Province or the officer
appointed to perform the duties of that post or to cover the duties or to fulfill the duties.
''Medical Officer of  Health''
Means an Officer appointed to the post of Medical officer of Health to the North Central Province
Department of Health Services or an officer appointed to perform in that post or cover the duties or
to fulfill the duties and Chief Medical Officer of Health or Medical officer of Health serving within the
administrative limits or any municipality or in that municipality.
''Provisional Administrative public Health inspector''
Means an Officer appointed, to the post of  Provincial Administrative Public Health Inspector of the
North Central Provisional Department of Health Services or to perform the duties of that post or
cover the duties or fulfill the duties.
''District Public Health Inspector''
Means an Officer appointed, to the post of administrative public Health inspector in medical officer
of Health functioning under the North Central Province Provincial Department of Health services or
to perform the duties of that post or cover the duties or fulfill the duties.
''Chief Public Health Inspector''
Means an Officer appointed, to the post of Chief Public Health Inspector of a Local Government
institution of the North Central Province or to perform the duties of that post of cover the duties or
fulfill the duties.
''Public Health Inspector''
Means an Officer appointed, to the post of or to perform the duties of that post or cover the duties
or fulfill the duties of the Public Health Inspector of the North Central Province Provincial Department
of Health Services.
''Resident''
Means a, Person, who on his/ her behalf or as a representative of another person, is holding the
custody, management or control of a premises or residing in that premises.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'03'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.03.2018
1 4 A
''Owner''
Means any Person who is the owner, lessee or having some ownership to receive the rent or produce
of that premises or any person, institution, corporation, or office holding the responsibility of
properly maintaining that premises.
''Caretaker''
Means a Person holding custody, management or control of curtain premises as a  representative or
employee of certain person or oppointed by the court of law as a holder of power of attorney to that
premises or on behalf of a minor.
''Person''
Means any individual or any institution or a private board.
''Public Nuisance''
Certain Nuisance caused through water pollution, soil pollution, and loud  sound or by any other
activity, conducted by the man himself in a manner obstructing better maintains of physical,
psychological, economic and social conditions of human beings in public Nuisance.
''Premises''
Means any land and any building situated on it or a part of that building.
''Article''
Means certain thing made up from anything including glass, metal, wood, plastic, fiber or rubber
which cannot be used or consumed yet, can become a threat to the health of certain person.
03 - 745
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.