

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 11
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 4 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"418 – 2025 ckjdß ui 03 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'01'03
No. 2,418 –  FRiday, jaNuaRy, 03, 2025
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th january, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th january, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
02nd january, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1 - B 082642 - 5,403 (01/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
2
1. General Qualifications required  :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or 
tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a 
tamil educated in tamil Medium ( this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
j anuary 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.
conditions of Service-General  :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  
all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in 
tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 
if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (
other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the 
island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  
the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear . 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the 
army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of 
departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5
 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5
 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5
 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6  :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public 
corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 ( i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public 
administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
3
Rules  and   instructions  for  candidates
, all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who viola tes any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject
or a part thereof ;
(ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  
commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3.
under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5.
absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. 
another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. 
answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8.
any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. 
it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. 
the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12.
a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. 
a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14.
a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. 
impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16.
assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i) Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. 
if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)
in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. 
if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. 
in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper,
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)
candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. 
after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
(vii) the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  
y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. 
disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
(ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) 
at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. 
on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
(xii) if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
4
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages – (Sinhala)
PuttaLaM   diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the Post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. - In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 03
rd February 2025, by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 13th day of december, 2024.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
5
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam Naththandiya
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Kottaramulla area of Pitigal Koralaya 
South division 
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Pallama
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of Madawakkulama area of demala 
Hathpaththuwa division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam arachchikattuwa Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Pulichchakulama area
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam chilaw
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
chilaw town area of Pitigal Koralaya 
North division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Mundel
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Perukkuwattan area of Puttalam Paththu 
division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Puttalam Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Puttalam Kadawath Sathara division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
01-14
_______________________________
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/ Additional marriages (General) 
Sinhala medium
PuttaLaM   diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages for the 
divisions set out in the Schedule hereof :
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
6
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 03
rd February 2025, by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 18th day of december, 2024.
Schedule
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam arachchikattuwa
Post of Births and deaths Registrar of 
udappuwa division and Post of Marriages 
(General) Registrar of North Pitigal Korale 
division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam
dankotuwa Post of additional Marriages (General) 
Registrar of South Pitigal Korale division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Mahakumbukkadawala
Post of Births and deaths Registrar of 
Rajakumara Wanni Paththu Division and 
Post of Marriages (General) Registrar of 
Puttalam Paththu division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
01-15

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
7
PARLIAmENT  Of  SRI  LANkA
v acancy
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who are physically sound and of excellent moral character for the 
post of Director (Communication) on the Staff of the Secretary General of Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent under registered cover along with 
the copies of certificates of educational/professional and experience, to reach the “Secretary-General of Parliament, 
Parliament of Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura kotte" on or before 24 th  January, 2025. the post applied for should be 
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. (this information is available on the website: www.parliament.lk)
Note: the post applied for must be mentioned at the top of the application.
1. Salary Scale - according to the Schedule i of the Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, the monthly 
salary scale for this post is Rs. 67,485 - 4 x 1,630 / 8 x 2,170 – Rs.91,365. (on this salary scale, the minimum initial 
monthly remuneration together with all the allowances will be approximately Rs.  142,000)
2. Age Limit – 35 to 55 years of age as at the closing date of the application
 (The upper age limit shall not be applicable for those who are already confirmed in the Public/Provincial Public/
Parliamentary Service ) 
3. Educational Qualifications and Experience – 
    a) a  Master’s degree in Mass communication or Marketing from a university or a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission; 
and
  Minimum of five years of professional experience in Marketing/ Outreach/ Visitor and Communication  
Leadership roles  
or
   b) Bachelor’s degree in Business Management /Marketing/ Business administration/ Marketing Management 
(Special)/ arts (communication, Mass communication, Public Relations and Media Management, 
Communication & Creative Arts and Sociology as a subject)/ Hospitality and Leisure Management/ Journalism 
from a University or a degree awarding institution recognized by the University Grants Commission; 
and
  t en years of professional experience in Marketing/ outreach/ Visitor and communication  Leadership roles                                   
or
c)  Having passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in four subjects (old syllabus) /three subjects (new syllabus) in 
one sitting; and
 Having passed the G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects including Credit Pass for Sinhala/ Tamil and a Pass 
for English and Mathematics in not more than two sittings; 
and
  t wenty years of professional experience in Marketing/ outreach/ Visitor and communication Leadership roles.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
8
4. method of Recruitment - through a structural interview.
Marks will be given at the interview considering the following criteria :
 
Serial No. Criteria
1 Additional Education and Professional qualifications
2 Experience and knowledge in digital Media
3 Language and communication skills
4 Human Resource Management and administrative skills
5 Performance at the interview
5. Other benefits – Official Vehicle with a driver
6. Terms and Conditions of Service
 (i.) this post is permanent. Pension entitlement pertaining to this post will be determined according to policy 
decisions taken by the Government in future.  Appointment will be made initially subject to a three-year (03) 
probation period. If an internal candidate or a person who has been confirmed in a permanent post in the  
Public/ Provincial Public service is selected, he / she will be appointed subject to an acting period of one year. 
If a candidate is aged between 45 and 55 years, and currently not confirmed in public sector or provincial civil 
service is selected, the appointment will be on contract basis for a period of two years, with the possibility of 
being extended.
 (ii.) Selected candidates will be subjected to the Financial and Departmental Regulations applicable to the staff of 
the Secretary General of Parliament.
 (iii.) Selected candidates should contribute to the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Fund 
from his/her salary with a percentage specified by the Government.
 (iv.) Selected candidates will be subject to a medical examination.
 (v.) a  Security clearance Report with respect to the selected candidates will be obtained prior to his / her 
appointment.
7. Applicants should attach the copies (NOT ORIGINALS) of the following certificates to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced when called upon to do so. 
(a) Birth Certificate
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications
(d) Certificates of Experience
8. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public Service/Public cooperation/ Statutory Boards and internal candidates 
should send their applications through relevant Heads of departments / institutions.
9. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
10. any information in the application found to be incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant liable for 
disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered after appointment.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
9
 sa
11. Applications received after the closing date or sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not sent through Heads 
of Departments/Institutions will be rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments/Institutions but received 
after the closing date, and applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen will also be rejected. 
          Secretary-General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri jayewardenepura Kotte.
31st december, 2024.
PARLIAmENT Of  SRI LANkA
Specimen Application form
Post of Director (Communication)
01. (a) Name with initials (in English):........................................................................
................................................................................................................................
(b) Names denoted by initials (in English)  : ........................................................
................................................................................................................................
  
02.
(c) Full Name (in block capitals): (Mr./Mrs./Miss)............................................
................................................................................................................................
National identity  card Number
03. (a) Private address: ..................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
telephone No.: 
(b)
(c) 
Official Address: .................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
……………………………………………………………………………………
telephone No. 
Please indicate the address to which the calling letter for the interview should be posted :
Private                                                   Office
04. (a) date of birth:  ………………………………………..
(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
(b) age as at closing date for applications: years: ........ Months: ........ days: ...
05. civil Status: (Married/unmarried)
06. Gender: (Male/Female)
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka: (yes/No)

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
10
08. Educational and Higher Educational Qualifications: (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………….
09. Professional Qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be attached )
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
10. Other Qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be attached ): 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
11. Experience : (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
Institution Post Service period
12. details of Present Employment:
(a)
(b)
Name and address of the institution: ..................................................................
date of First appointment: ....................................................................................
(c) Present Post: .............................................................................................................
(d) Monthly basic salary: ..............................................................................................
(e) allowances: ...............................................................................................................
(f) Gross Salary: .............................................................................................................
13.
 14.
Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a Court of Law? ( yes / No)
if yes, give details: 
Have you served under the Government before? ( yes / No )
if yes, give details:  ...............................................................................................................................
i do hereby certify that all the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also 
aware that, I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false 
 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
11
or incorrect before selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment. 
date: ............................                                                                                     ………................................
                                                                                                                            Signature of the applicant
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/  Public Cooperation / Statutory 
boards  )
Secretary - General of Parliament,   
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /Miss ............................................ holding the post of ..............
......................................... in this Institution. I certify that he/she has been confirmed in this post and his/her work and 
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention to make 
such inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released from the service if selected for this post. (Please strike through 
the irrelevant words.)    
date: ...................................                                    ...................................................................
                                                                    Signature of Head of department/institution
                                                                                                                            (Official Stamp)   
01-45
SRI  LANkA   RAILWA y  DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the posts in Grade III (Permanent Ways/ bridges/ buildings/ 
Workshops/Running Sheds/ Signal and Telecommunication) in Railway Supervisory management  Service in Sri 
Lanka Railway Department - 2024(2025)
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from the Sri Lankan male candidates who are over 18 years of age and below 30 years of age 
as at 06.01.2025 to fill the vacancies, indicated in front of each vacancy of the below cited posts in Railway Supervisory 
Management Service in Sri Lanka Railway department. this examination is scheduled to be conducted in the month of 
March, 2025.
Serial
No.
Title of the Designation Grade No. of 
vacancies
1. Supervisory Manager (Permanent Ways) Grade iii 32
2. Supervisory Manager (Bridges) Grade iii 5
3. Supervisory Manager^Buildings) Grade iii 12
4. Supervisory ManagerfWorkshops) Grade iii 9
5. Supervisory Manager(Running Sheds) Grade iii 9
6. Supervisory Manager(Signal and telecommunication) Grade iii 13
02. applications, published as “online applications- Recruitment Exams/ EB Exams” under “our Services” in the Web Site 
of department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk can be submitted only through the online system. Receipt of 
online applications will be opened at 9.00 a.M. on .06/01/2025 and closed at 9.00 p.m. on 03.02.2025.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
12
 Officers who are currently in Government/ Local Governments Service should produce the Institutional Heads a copy 
of the application for attachment with the personal file and a copy of the application, certified by the Institutional Head 
and a Service Confirmation Letter should be produced at calling for the interview.
03. candidates who are selected for the vacancies on the priority of the exigency of the service in the Railway department, 
will be appointed to one post of the above mentioned posts and it will not be permitted to change the posts after receipt 
of the appointments.
04. Nature of duties in the Post:
Supervisory Manager (Permanent Ways):
Performing the role of a Supervisory Manager in constructing Railway tracks system newly as suitable for train 
operations, Repairs, maintenance and sustenance.
Supervisory Manager (Bridges):
Performing the role of a Supervisory Manager in constructing Railway tracks system newly as suitable for train 
operations. Repairs, maintenance and sustenance.
Supervisory Manager (Buildings):
Performing the role of a Supervisory Manager in constructing buildings and structures newly as suitable for 
train operations, Repairs, maintenance and sustenance.
Supervisory Manager (Running Sheds):
Performing all the tasks of a supervisory Manager through repairs and maintenance after identifying 
technical defects of Railway Engines, Carriages and compartments and certification through trials of those carriages 
and compartments prior operations, sustenance and maintenance of stores of plants and machineries and spare parts, 
maintenance of plants and machineries and spare parts relevant to the workshops.
Supervisory Manager (Workshops) :
Performing all the tasks of a Supervisory Manager for repairs and maintenance other plants and machineries 
including engines, carriages, compartments as suitable for the train operations, newly manufacturing spare parts on 
the requirements and certification through trials of those carriages and compartments after repairs, sustenance and 
maintenance of stores of plants and machineries and spare parts, maintenance of plants and machineries and spare parts 
relevant to the workshops.
Supervisory Manager (Signal and telecommunication):
Performing the role of a Supervisory Manager in constructing Signaling system and telecommunication 
channels relevant to the train operations, repairs, maintenance and sustenance.
05. Salary scale:
 (i) in terms of the schedule 1 of the public Administration Circular 03/2016 the Salary scale relevant to this post 
is Rs 34,l 30-5* 495 -5 *575 -10 * 720 - 10 *  745 - Rs.54,130 /= and payments will be made by placing on the 
initiative salary step of RS. 34.130/=.
 (ii) In addition to this, you are entitled to the allowances paid to the Government officers from time to time by the 
Government.
 (iii) it can be reimbursed under the insurance policy of agrahara at hospitalization.
 (iv) it is entitled for quarters on the exigency of service.
06. (a) Educational Qualifications : -
 (i) Have been passed G.C.E.( Ordinary Level) Examination with six (6) subjects including Sinhala ,/ Tamil / 
English Language , Science, Mathematics & another subject with a Credit pass in one sitting.
&
 (ii) Have been passed G.C.E.( Advanced Level) Examination with three (3) subjects under Science/ Mathematics 
streams with two subjects out of Applied Mathematics, Pure Mathematics, chemistry, Physics. combined 
Mathematics in one sitting.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
13
(b) Professional Qualifications
 (i) Have been followed National technological diploma, awarded by university of Moratuwa
 or
 (ii) National Engineering diploma, awarded by National apprentice & industrial training authority
 or
 (iii) Higher National Engineering diploma, awarded by Ministry of Education and Higher Education
 or
 (iv) t echnological diploma, awarded by open university of Sri Lanka
 or
 (v) A course of National V ocational Qualification (N.V .Q.) Level 6 in a field .relevant to a post, awarded by 
the tertiary & V ocational Educational commission.
 (The fields concerned should be as follows.)
 (i) Railway Supervisory Manager (Permanent Ways)/Railway Supervisory Manager( Buildings)/ Railway 
Supervisory Manager(Bridges)-The relevant requirements should be fulfilled under the with regard to 
conducting the interview civil with regard to conducting the interview.
 (ii) Railway Supervisory Manager (Workshops)/ Railway Supervisory Manager (Running sheds)-the relevant 
requirements should be fulfilled under the scope of mechanical/electrical & electronic.
 (iii) Rail way Supervisory Manager (Signal & tele communication)- the relevant requirements should be 
fulfilled under the scope of electrical & electronic & Telecommunication.
 (c) other Requirements
 i. Be a citizen in Sri Lanka
 ii. Have a sound moral character.
 iii. It will be qualified male candidates only.
 iv. Only if all the qualifications mentioned above as the requirements to recruit to the service and the due 
age limit are completed in every aspect as at the date, notified by the notice it will be accepted that it has 
been fulfilled requisite qualifications to sit the competitive examination which is for the recruitment to the 
service.
7. Recruitment procedure:
 (i) The candidates who have fulfilled the requirements of the above (6) will be recruited through a general 
interview on the results of a written test. It will be filled the vacancies only in the table in the lst  paragraph 
and recruitments are not made through waiting lists.
 (ii) a  candidate will be required to prove his identity for at the Examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor each subject he offers. For this purpose. any of the following documents will be accepted.
 i) National identity card
 ii) Valid passport
 iii) Valid driving license
the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering the face in order to establish the 
identity & without covering ears to establish that they are not wearing communication devices. Further the 
candidates who reject to establish the identity are not permitted to enter the examination hall.
it should be refrained from covering the face & the ears from the moment of entering to the examination 
hall until exit from the examination hall as it is convenient to the examination authorities to identify the 
candidates.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
14
 (iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he has fulfilled that requisite qualifications 
to sit the examination or for an appointment.
8) candidates who have obtained 40% marks or more at the written test will be considered as passed. a number of 
candidates out of basic qualified candidates equivalent to the number of vacancies will be selected after calling for a 
general interview on the basis of merits of the marks of the candidates.
9) details on the open competitive Examination for Recruitment to the posts in Grade iii (Permanent Ways/ Bridges/ 
Buildings/ Workshops/Running Sheds/ Signal and telecommunication) in Railway Supervisory Management Service in 
Sri Lanka Railway department.
(i) Examination procedure and the Syllabus.
the examination will consist of below’ cited papers.
1. intelligence test
2. Subject-specific technical test
 (ii) Mode of test
 1. intelligence test time- 1 hour 100 marks
 2. Subject-specific technical test Time- 3 hours 100 marks
 (the pass mark for the written paper is 40%)
a. Syllabus
Syllabus No. 01 Intelligence test
this question paper will be compiled to assess the candidate’s capacity for comprehension ability & 
taking logical decisions, general knowledge and intelligence. this is a multiple choice paper including 
Mathematical quiz, general knowledge & environment.
Syllabus No. 02 Subject-specific technical test
it will be included questions to assess the technological levels, possessed by an Engineering diploma 
certificate holder or equivalent certificate holder, cited as recruitment requirements and knowledge on 
operation of modern plants and machineries, used in construction and maintenance field.
 b. Scheme of Examination and Medium of Examination -
  (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English Medium.
  (b) candidates can sit with one of the preferred languages.
Note:-
 (l) a  candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one & the same language
 (2) a  candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination indicated in the 
application
 (3) Every candidate should sit for both (02) papers.
 (4) the number of recruitments at one time will be decided by the General Manager Railways.
10) Instructions to fill the application:
 (i) the online application should be completed in English language. Receipt/ non- receipt of the soft copy by the 
Department as valid application, forwarded online by the candidate will be notified to the mobile phone number, 
used to access the system through a short message (SMS) or E mail address. download the instructions, prepared 
for the application prior to fill the online application. To fill the application strictly adhere to the said instructions. 
any amendments, made after receipt of a printed copy of the application will not be considered as a valid 
amendment. Incomplete applications shall be rejected without notice. Applications, received after the closing 
date of receipt of applications shall not be entertained.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
15
 (ii) Examination fee is Rs. 1,200/=. Payment should be made only under the below cited payment methods, allowed 
through the online system.
 i. through any bank credit card
 ii. through any bank debit card with the facility of internet transactions.
 iii. online banking method of Bank of ceylon
 iv. through any branch of the Bank of ceylon
Note:
a) the instructions on the mode of payment through the above methods has been published in the website .under the 
technical instructions relevant to the examination.
b) Receipt of payments will be notified through a short message or Electronic Mail message. It should be paid the 
total amount for the examination fee and the applications for which examination fee is paid less or more will 
be rejected. The Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka is not liable on errors of making payments through the 
above cited payment methods, 
c) this fee is non - refundable or replaced for other examinations.
 (iii) On the prior assumption that only the qualifiers have applied as per the Gazette Notification. The Commissioner 
General of Examinations will issue admission cards only through the online to the candidates within the due age 
limit as in the notification who have sent duly completed application forms with the receipt of payment the due 
examination fee on or before the closing dale of receipt of application forms. as soon as admission cards are 
issued, the department of Examinations. Sri Lanka will notify to the candidates through a web notice/a short 
message. any candidate who did not receive the admission cards should enquire the institutional Examinations 
division of the department of Examinations, in such enquiry, it should be mentioned the title of the Examination, 
full name of the candidate, address & National identity card Number. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
a letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent is important to be forwarded 
to the Department of Examination with the object of sending a photocopy of the admission card by fax. In the 
instance of such an enquiry it would be advisable to keep photocopies’ of the application form and receipt kept at 
your possession.
11) Candidates are subjected to rules & regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting 
the Examination and issuance of results. He is liable to a Punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for breach of these rules.
12) Conditions of Service:-
 Recruitments will beamed to the Grade iii in Railway supervisory Management Service and it will be placed on the 
initiative salary step of the due salary scale.
13) Terms of employment
 i) this post is permanent & pensionable. it should be liable to the ensuing policy decisions, taken by the Government. 
contributions should be made further if it is already) contributed to the Widows and orphans Pension Scheme.
 ii) As per the provisions of Public Administration circular 07/2017. it is required to achieve the proficiency of the 
other official language in addition to the language, within five years from the date of appointment. It will be 
deferred salary increments ot the officers who have not achieved the said proficiency until they will be qualified.
 iii) Selected candidates will be subject to the provisions in the establishment code and Financial Regulations and of 
the Minutes of procedural rules of the Public Service Commission. Further, they are liable to act subjected to the 
orders, issued from time to time by the government and the departmental instructions.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
16
 iv) The recruited candidates will be given a training in the relevant field by the Department and it should be 
entered into a service agreement for a period of 10 years. the candidate should be liable to pay an amount of  
Rs. 1,000,000/= in favour of the department.
14) The General Manager in Railways retains the rights to take the final decision on any matter, which is not disclosed 
through this notification. All the provisions of the recruitment scheme of the Railway Supervisory Management 
Service are relevant to this notification.
15 ) In the event of inconsistency in the notification among Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the Sinhala text shall be 
prevailed.
 J. I. D. Jayasundara,
 General Manager - Sri Lanka Railways.
 
Sri Lanka Railway department,
P.B.355,
olcott Mawatha, 
colombo 10.
01-38

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.01.2025
17
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2025
 JANuAR y 03.01.2025 Friday — 20.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
  10.01.2025 Friday –– 27.12.2024 Friday 12 noon
  17.01.2025 Friday –– 03.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
  24.01.2025 Friday –– 10.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
  31.01.2025 Friday –– 17.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
 fEbRuAR y 07.02.2025 Friday — 24.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
  14.02.2025 Friday –– 31.01.2025 Friday 12 noon
  21.02.2025 Friday –– 07.02.2025 Friday 12 noon
  28.02.2025 Friday –– 14.02.2025 Friday 12 noon
 mARCh  07.03.2025 Friday — 21.02.2025 Friday 12 noon
  14.03.2025 Friday –– 28.02.2025 Friday 12 noon
  21.03.2025 Friday –– 07.03.2025 Friday 12 noon
  28.03.2025 Friday –– 14.03.2025 Friday 12 noon
    
  
 K. G. Pradeep Pushpa Kumara,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
2nd january, 2025.