

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
395
395
wxl 1"906 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'03'13
No. 1,906 – FRIDAY , MARCH 13, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 398
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 404
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 02nd April, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
March, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   The List of Jurors in Kegalle Jurisdiction - year 2014/2015 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette, under the same Gazette
Number and date of publication in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
396
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
397
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
398
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th Apr il, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th February, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Kegalle Dehiowita Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) in Koralathuna and General, District Secretariat,
Pathabulathgama Division and Births Kegalle.
and Deaths for Atulugam Koralaya West
Division.
03–325
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
399
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th of April, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th February, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Galgamuwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Walpaluwa Area, Wanni General, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala.
03–326
––––––––––––––––––
BHIKSU  UNIVERSITY  OF  SRI  LANKA,
ANURADHAPURA
Invitation for Applications/Nominations
POST OF MAHOPADYAYA
IN pursuance of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University Act, No. 26
of 1996 and the amendment of Act, No. 15 of 1012, applications or
nominations for the post of the Mahopadyaya are invited from the
qualified Bhikkus who possess the following qualifications.
01. Post graduate degree in Buddhist studies or in any other
subject connected thereto from a recognized university on a research
done within a period of not less than two years.
02. Ten years of experience in the field of teaching.
03. Possess a good knowledge of oriental languages.
04. Shall be a disciplined Upasampada Bhikku who has
completed twenty years after Upasampada.
The Mahopadyaya shall be appointed for a period of three (03)
years. He shall be a full time officer of the university and the chief
executive officer and the chief academic officer thereof. The
Mahopadyaya shall be ex-officio member of the Uththarithara
Sabhawa and ex-officio member and Chairman of both the Council
and the Senate. He shall be responsible for the maintenance of
discipline within the University. The Mahopadyaya shall be the
accounting officer of the University, who shall comply with any
determination of directive of the Council. It shall be the duty of the
Mahopadyaya to give effect or to ensure that effect is given to the
decisions of the Council and of the Senate. The Mahopadyaya shall
hold office for a term of three years or until he has completed his
sixty fifth year whichever event occurs earlier.
The Mahopadyaya is eligible to be placed on the highest academic
salary scale of the University and be paid other allowances approved
by the government and the University Grants Commission. He will
also be provided an official vehicle with fuel allowance and
residential facilities in the University premises.
The following documents should accompany the applications/
nominations :
(i) A complete curriculum vitae of applicant/nominee
including date of birth ;
(ii) A personal statement of vision of the development of
the University and a brief account of what the applicant/

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
400
nominee expects to achieve if appointed to the post of
Mahopadyaya.
(iii) A letter of consent from the nominee in case of a
nomination ;
(iv) A letter from the employer indicating whether the
applicant/nominee could be released in the event of his
appointment to the post in case of the applicant/
nominee serving in Public Service, Corporations,
Statutory bodies and Higher Educational Institutions
other than the Bhiksu University of Sri Lanka.
The Council shall select three names from among Bhikku
applicants/nominees who possess the qualifications specified above
and submit those names to the Uththarithara Sabhawa and the
Uththarithara Sabhawa then shall select and recommend the name
of one Bhikku applicant to the H. E. President through the Hon.
Minister.
Applications/Nominations should be addressed to the "Registrar,
Bhiksu University of Sri Lanka, Puttalam Road, Anuradhapura"
and sent under registered cover or hand delivered to reach the same
on or before 30th March 2015.
The envelope containing the application/nomination with
relevant material must be marked "Post of the Mahopadyaya" on
its top left-hand corner.
U. D. D
ODANWALA,
Registrar and Secretary to the Council,
Bhiksu University of Sri Lanka.
25th February, 2015.
03–365
––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE   COMMISSION
Ministry of Food Security
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE CATEGORY OF GRADE III) ON
OPEN COMPETITIVE BASIS - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited by order of the Public Service Commission for selection of suitable person on the basis of structure
interview for the vacancy existing in the Post of Legal Officer (Executive category of Grade III) of the Co-operative Employees
Commission, Ministry of Food Security. All applications prepared in accordance with the specimen from attached at the end of th is
notice should reach the "Secretary, Co-operative employees Commission, No. 100 1/1, Lady Lochore fund building, Sir Chiththampalam
A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02" under the register post on or before the below mention date. The words "Co-operative Employees
Commission, Recruitment to the Post of Legal Officer - 2014" should be marked clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelo pe
containing the application.
(a) The closing date of application will be 23rd of March, 2015.
Note.– No complain to the effect that an application or any order correspondence connected there to has been lost or delayed
in the post will be entertained. Any damage caused due to delay in submitting the application until the closing date
should be borne by the applicants themselves.
01. Mode of Recruitment.– Candidate who fulfill the following qualifications laid down in the notification will be recruited on the
basic of the result of a structural interview depending on the number of vacancies. Structural interview will be held in accordance with the
marking scheme (Indicated under No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Terms and Conditions of Employment :-
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable and should contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) The appointment will be subject to a probationary period of three years. And the appointees should pass the First
Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment as specified in the Scheme of Recruitment.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/201, the successful candidates should obtain the relevant
proficiency in the official language other than the official language they join the public service within a period of 5
years from joining the post and those who join the public service in a language medium which is not an official
language, should obtain the required official language proficiency within the probationary period.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
401
(iv) This appointment should be subjected to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishments
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and to the other
Departmental Regulations.
03. Required Qualification :-
3.1 Educational/Professional Qualifications .– Having obtained a degree in Law from a University recognized by the
University Grant Commission/being an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
3.2 Experience.– Active professional experience for not less than 3 years after swearing in as an Attorney-at-Law of
the Supreme Court.
3.3 Physical requirement. – Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post
and to serve in any part of the island.
3.4 Other qualification :-
* Must be a Sri Lankan citizen ;
* Must be of excellent character ;
* Must have fulfilled the qualifications for the recruitment to the post as at the closing date of applications ;
* Must be excellent in English language.
04. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of application.
05. Salary Scale .– The monthly salary scale attached to the post is Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 - 17x Rs. 1,050. (Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006, dated 2006-04-25-SL-1-2006).
06. The Structural Interview will be conducted based on the following marking scheme :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications : 20
A degree in Law from a recognized University
– For First Class pass 20
– For Second Class (Upper Division) pass 15
– For Second Class (Lower Division) pass 10
For First Class pass at the final year examination of Law College 15
For Second Class pass at the final year examination of Law College 10
Note.– 10 marks should be given if passed the final examination with honours only.
(Marks will be allocated for the highest qualification only - either of the degree or the Law
College qualification.)
02 Additional professional Qualifications : 15
For a Post Graduate Diploma or Post Graduate Law Diploma of not less than one year
duration in the relevant field offered by a recognized institution
(05 marks for a each Diploma)
For a diploma of not less than six months duration in the relevant field offered by a
recognized institution
(03 marks for each Diploma)
For a Certificate Course not less than three months duration in the relevant field offered
by a recognized institution
(02 marks for each course of study)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
402
03 Additional Experience : 30
Experience in the Public Service or in Private Sector as an Attorney-at-Law more than
06 months and less than 1 year - 02 marks 05 marks each for each year up to a maximum
of 30 marks
(Except for the service period of three year worked as an apprentice under an
Attorney-at-Law)
(A certificate from an Attorney-at-Law with a service of not less than 20 years or
President's Counsel or from a Judge should be produced to prove the additional qualification)
04 Computer Literacy : 15
For having offered Information Technology as a core subject for the degree from 15
a university recognized by the University Grant Commission
For having followed a Diploma Course in Information Technology of not less than one year 10
duration or 1500 hours at an institution recognized by the government.
For having followed a Certificate Course in Information Technology at an institution
recognized by the Government of the duration of –
– 06 months/720 hours 07
– 03 months/360 hours 05
(Marks are given only for the higher qualification)
05 Proficiency in English Language : 15
Post Graduate Degree/Degree/Post Graduate Degree in Law/Bachelor of Laws in English 15
medium
(Should have answered all relevant examination papers in English medium)
For having followed a Diploma Course in English at a university recognized by the 10
University Grant Commission or at an institution recognized by the Government
(of one year or 1500 hours duration)
For having followed a Certificate Course in English at a university recognized by the
University Grant Commission or at an institution recognized by the Government of the
duration of –
– 06 months/720 hours 07
– 03 months/360 hours 05
(Marks are given only for the higher qualification)
06 Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
Total 100
07. Identity of candidates.– Candidates who have forwarded completed applications in every aspect will only be called for the
structural interview :
The originals and certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview :
Following identification papers will be accepted at the interview to establish the identity of candidates :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner General of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) V alid Passport.
Subject Maximum
Marks

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
403
08. Presentment of Application :
(i) A specimen application form is given at the end of this
notification. Applications should be prepared by using
the both sides of the A4 size paper. Information under
01 to 09 should be in one side and 10 to 13 should be in
the other side. Applications should be completed with
the candidates own hand writings.
(ii) Signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary/
Public/Commissioned Officer in the forces or a Public
Officer drawing a monthly consolidated salary of more
than or equal to Rs. 22,935.
(iii) The officers in Public Service or Provincial Public Service
should submit applications through their Heads of the
Department.
(iv) Application which has not been submitted according to
the above stated specimen form will be rejected and
complaints regarding lost or delayed application will not
entertain.
09. Furnishing false particulars. – If any of the particulars
furnished by you are found to be false ro erroneous before the
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. In case such
falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to discontinue your service, subject to relevant disciplinary
actions being taken.
10. If there is any unconformity in between Sinhala/Tamil and
English texts, Sinhala text is ascendant.
11. The Public Service Commission reserves the right either to
fill or not to fill the vaancies in the post.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
J
ANAKA SUGATHADASA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Food Security.
Colombo 02,
26th February, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(Office use only)
APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE
CATEGORY OF GRADE III) OF THE CO-OPERA TIVE EMPLOYEES
COMMISSION, MINISTRY OF FOOD SECURITY
01. Name of the applicant :
(i) Name with initials (put the initials to the end) :–––––––.
(With English block capitals)
(ii) Name in full (English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone No. :
(i) Office Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
Mobile No. :–––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Date :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Year :––––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. Sex :–––––––––––.
07. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i) University, date and medium of language the Degree in
Law was obtained.
(ii) On which o aths were taken as an Attorney-at-Law of
the Supreme Court.
09. Professional Qualifications :
Exam/ Year Subjects Resutls Name of the
Diploma Institute/
University
10. Experience :
Institute Name Position Duration
11. Computer Literacy :
(i) Degree :–––––––––––.
(ii) Diploma :–––––––––––.
(iii) Certificate Course :–––––––––––.
12. Proficiency in English Language :
(i) Degree :–––––––––––.
(ii) Diploma :–––––––––––.
(iii) Certificate Course :–––––––––––.
13. Have you been found guilty of any crime by courts ?
I do hereby certify the facts given in this application are true
and correct. If any of the above facts found to be false or incorrect
before enrolment I know that I am liable to be disqualified and if
any incorrect information is detected after the enrolment I am liable
to be dismissed without liable for any compensation.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
404
14. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who has been
living in ........................... is known to me personally and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ......................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestation.
Name of Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
15. Certificate of the Head of Department/Institute :
(If the applciant is in the Public Service)
I verify that information furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................
is correct and he/she is not has been serving in this Department/
Institution in the capacity of ...................... since .................... and
he/she is not subjected to any disciplinary action and if he/she si
selected to this post he/she can/cannot be released from the post
presently he/she is holding.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
03–445
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
RECRUITMENT TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED POSTS (PL 02-2006A) WHICH REMAIN VACANT IN SURVEY
DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA - SURVEY FIELD ASSISTANT
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit to the post of primary semi skilled (PL02-2006A) surve y
assistant which remains vacant in Survey Department.
1.1 Post Grade
1. Survey Field Assistant Grade III
1.2 Nature of the duties of posts :
Post Main Functions
Survey Field Assistant * Giving assistance to draw the sketch relevant to the survey.
* Preparation of survey lines as possible as to observe old boundaries, using survey field books and
plans.
* Placing and opening of relevant land marks and pickets in area relevant to the survey.
* Giving Assistance to Survey duties relevant to finding out and placing of bench marks relevant to the
Survey.
* Giving Assistance to maintenance relevant to the Safety and storing of instruments, use in the field.
* Setting out of G. P. S. instruments in survey points in field for surveys which are done, using of satellite
technology including of theodolite, leveling instruments and new electronic total stations.
* Giving assistance to all activities of placing of geo control points require for air photography.
* Keeping of targets properly that require for determination of location and level of all stations which
made in surveys and giving assistance to collect data.
* Setting out of landmarks and bench marks using correct data in survey.
* Setting out of landmarks relevant to blocking out of lands which basically done using the data in survey
field books and tracing entries.
* Attending to any duty assigned by Surveyor General or his representative as applicable to surveying.
* Supervision of works of other survey field assistants is assigned for those who hold the post of
overseers in survey field assistant grade, in addition to the above duties.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
405
2.0 The number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. The appointing
authority has power to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3.0 Salary :
Table No. 01
Grade Salary Scale Initial monthly salary
Grade III Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - 10x145 - 10x160 - Rs. 12,210
12x170 - Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Grade II Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - 10x145 - 10x160 - Rs. 13,655
12x170 - Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Grade I Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 - Rs. 15,120
12x170 - Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Special Grade Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 - 10x145 - 10x160 - Rs. 16,730
12x170 - Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
4. This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointment is subject to 03 year probation period and selected candidates are
bound to serve in any part of the country and subject to general conditions applicable to appointment to the pubilc service.
5. Qualifications :–
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination in six (06) subjects with at least two credit passes
in not more than two sittings.
5.2 Professional Qualifications :
Should have obtained a skill at least in level two of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) as determined by the
tertiary and V ocational Education Commission as appropriate for the post of survey field assistant.
5.3 Minimum skills :
(a) Giving assistance to identify survey fields.
(b) Attending to safety and maintenance of surey instruments and equipments.
5.4 Physical fitness :
All candidates should have physically and mentally fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to carry out
duties in the post.
5.5 Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The candidate should be of excellent moral character.
(iii) All the necessary qualifications for recruitment to the post should have been fulfilled in all respect as at the
closing date of calling for application.
5.6 Age :
(a) The minimum age should be 18 years and maximum age should be 45 years as at the closing date of applicable.
(The maximum age limit is not applicable for those who hold a permanent post already in the Public Service)
6. Furnishing false information.– In filling these vacancies, if a candidate is found not to have necessary qualifications, his/her
candidature can be cancelled. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she
has willfully suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
406
7. Method of recruitment.– Recruitment will be on a written examination.
Examination Procedure .– The examination will consists of written test consisting two subjects. This examination will be held
in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The medium applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum marks obtainable Minimum percentage of marks Time
required for a pass
01. General Knowledge 100 40% 02 hours
02. Intelligence 100 40% 01 hours and
15 minutes
7.1 Syllabus :-
(i) General Knowledge .– Including the knowledge of environment of the candidate lives, political, social, cultural,
religious and economical environment in Sri Lanka, scientific and technological development, internationally important
general facts are expected by this paper.
(ii) Intelligence Test.– A question paper made in multiple choice method, consists of questions to judge the rationality,
ability of thought and ability to take decision, of the candidate.
8. Selection procedure.–  After an interview held by an interview board appointed by Surveyor General only to ascertain
whether the qualifications have been fulfilled by the candidates, recruitment will be made as survey field assistant in order o f merits
obtained by candidates in the written examination.
One month field and theoretical training will be given to those who recruited as survey field assistants by the training instit ute
of Survey Department.
9. Preparation and Submission of Applications :
(a) The application should be prepared by the applicant himself on a paper size 21x29 (A4) using both sides as per the
specimen application appearing at the end of this notice. Item No. 01 to 06 should be on page 01, No. 07-09.2 on
page 02, No. 10-14 on page 03, and No. 15-16.2 should be on page 04.
(b) Candidates who are already employed in Public service should forward their applciations through their Heads of
the Departments before the closing date of application.
(c) Applications should be in the language in which the candidates are eligible to sit the examination.
(d) Applications which are not complying with the specimen form, examination fees have not been paid before the
prescribed date of improper filling, will be rejected without any notice. Candidates should bear consequences of
improper filling of applications. It would be useful to retain a photocopy of the application. It is responsibility of
the candidate to find out whether the completed application complies with the application specified in the notice.
If not application will be rejected.
(e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. The complaints for any loss of applications in the post will not
be considered.
9.1 On the presumption that only the candidates who have qualifications specified in Gazette notification have
applied, Surveyor General will allow all candidates who have paid specified examination fees and submitted
application on or before 28.03.2015 to sit the examination. Issuing of admission card shall not be deemed as the
applicant possesses qualifications to the post or to sit the examination. Candidature of the applicant will be
cancelled if it is found at the time of interview that the applicant does not possess the requirement for this post.
9.2 The envelope containing the application should be clearly marked "Recruitment to Posts of primary semi skilled -
Survey Field Assistant" on the top left hand corner.
9.3 The signature of the applicant in the application should be certified by a principal of a government school/Justice
of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Commissioned Officer in the Army/an officer in Police

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
407
Service hold a Gazette Post or an officer who hold a permanent post in public service in tertiary or senior level in
terms of the grading of Public Service Circular No. 06/2006.
10. Examination Fee .– Examination fee is Rs. 800. This fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General Office in
No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of District Survey Office or at Institute of Surveying and Mapping - Diyathalawa. Th e
receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage in the application form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with  applicant).
The fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and cheques will not be accepted. Applications without cash receipts will
be rejected.
11. Submission of Application. – Completed application should be sent by registered post to reach to the following address on
or before 28.03.2015.
Senior Superintendent of Survey (Examination),
Institute of Surveying and Mapping,
Diyatalawa.
12. Appearing for the Examination.– Every candidate should hand over their admission card to the supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination. The candidate shoul d sit the
examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
13. Identity of candidate.– Candidates should prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for
each paper they sit. Any of the following documents will be accepted for their  purpose :
(i) The National Identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master General,
(iii) A valid passport.
14. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the Surveyor General.
P. M. P. U
DAYAKANTHA,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department of Sri Lanka,
Colombo 05,
26th February, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILED POST (PL 02-2006A) WHICH
REMAIN V ACANT IN SURVEY DEPARTMENT - SURVEY FIELD ASSISTANT
01. Index No. : For Office use only
02. Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - S,  Tamil - T,  English - E)
(Indicate the letter/code in given cage)
03. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
03.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
05.1 Age as at the closing date of application :––––––––––.
06. Gender :
(Male – M, Female – F)
07. Permanent Address (In legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
07.1 Administrative district to which address belongs
(See the Schedule 1) :
District No. :
Name of the District :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
408
07.2 Date from which the applicant is resident in the district :
–––––––––––.
08. Telephone No. :
Permanent :–––––––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––––.
09.1 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt :
(a) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(b) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(c) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(1) (5)
(2) (6)
(3) (7)
(4) (8)
09.2 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
2nd attempt :
(d) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(e) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(f) Subjects passed :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(1) (5)
(2) (6)
(3) (7)
(4) (8)
10. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
(Mention the NVQ qualifications that have been obtained)
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any
offence ? :
Yes : No :
12.1 If yes, give details :–––––––––––.
13. Details of receipt which the examination fees paid  :
(i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
14. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found
to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the
appointment and if it is found after the appointment, I
would be liable to dismissal from the service.
(c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of  ........ has
been pasted in relevant cage.
(d) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the rules
and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in
respect of the examination.
(e) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mention here.
––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
15. Certification of Signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ who is submitting the
application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature under the Section 13, in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of attestor.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attestor :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
16. Recommendation of the Head of the Department. (Only for
the applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public Service) :
16.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during the
five years immediately prior to the closing date of
application,
Work, behaviour, attendance satisfactory/unsatisfactory ;
All salary increments have been earned/have not been
earned ;
Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary action.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.03.2015
409
16.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can be/
cannot be released from the post he holds at present.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
SCHEDULE 01
This Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which
address belongs on No. 7.1 of the application.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
(i) Colombo 01
(ii) Gampaha 02
(iii) Kalutara 03
(iv) Kandy 04
(v) Matale 05
Town/District Name Town/District No.
(vi) Nuwara Eliya 06
(vii) Galle 07
(viii) Ma tara 08
(ix) Hambanthota 09
(x) Kurunegala 10
(xi) Puttalam 11
(xii) Anuradhapura 12
(xiii) Polonnaruwa 13
(xiv) Badulla 14
(xv) Monaragala 15
(xvi) Rathnapura 16
(xvii) Kegalle 17
(xviii) Ampara 18
(xix) Bat ticaloa 19
(xx) Trincomalee 20
(xxi) Jaffna 21
(xxii) Vavuniya 22
03–390
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.