

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2 6 1 2
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2602
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
AttEntion is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th  January, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st January, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
  This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
wxl 1"947 – 2015 foieïn¾ ui 23 jeks nodod – 2015'12'23
no. 1,947 – WEDnESDAy ,  DEcEmbER 23, 2015
2599
N. B.-  (i) Part iii of the Gazette no. 1,946 of 18.12.2015 was not published.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2600
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2601
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination 
Hall. A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have 
dealings with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other 
than a member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need 
for a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2602
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE
Officer Vacancies 
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in 
the Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the 
following branches :–
 ( a) t echnical Engineering branch;
 ( b) Electronics Engineering branch ;
 ( c) Logistics branch ;
 ( d) Dental branch ;
 ( e) Administrative Veterinary branch ; 
 ( f) Administrative band branch. 
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing 
the professional qualifications given below : 
 ( a) Technical engineering Branch :
  Technical Engineering Officer - Male (Regular)
 * Full time four (4) year bSc. in m echanical/
Automobile. Engineering from a recognized 
university or three (3) year full time national 
Diploma in technology (nDt ) in mechanical 
Engineering from the University of moratuwa or 
three and half (3 1/2) year full time Higher national 
Diploma in mechanical Engineering (HnDE) from 
Sri Lanka institute of Advanced technological 
Education or four (4) year national Diploma in 
Engineering Sciences (n DES) awarded by the 
national Apprenticeship and industrial training 
Authority. 
 ( b) electronics engineering Branch : 
  Information/Cyber Security Specialist - male 
(Volunteer)
 * Four (4) year bSc Engineering Degree in a 
computer related stream or three (3) year bSc 
Degree in a computer related stream or bSc 
Degree with computer Science as a major subject 
or HnD or nibm Diploma or equivalent with 
sound knowledge and experience in information/
cyber security. (candidates also should have a 
moderate knowledge of a programming language)
 ( c) Logistics branch 
  mess manager - male (Regular)
 * Higher Diploma in Hotel management or 
completion of all 4 levels of full time basic 
courses and completion of intermediate and 
Advance level in Hospitality industry training, 
from a recognized Local/Foreign institute with 
minimum of 2 years post qualification experience 
in star class Hotels in Food and beverages 
Departments in executive capacity. 
  Technical Officer Apparel - Male (Regular)
 * A bachelor Degree in Science, technology or 
Engineering, preferably with a Post Graduate 
Diploma qualification in Textile and Clothing 
technology with 5 years working experience 
in apparel sector with minimum of 3 years as 
a t rainer/ consultant in t extile and Apparel 
technology covering product development, 
productivity improvement merchandising and 
work study ; or 
 * Should have a Diploma in textile and clothing 
from the Sri Lanka institute of textile and 
apparel or any other recognized institute with 2 
years working experience in textile and clothing 
technology. 
  (Age not more than 33 years for Degree holders 
and 26 years for Diploma holders as at 25th 
march 2016)
 ( d) Dental Branch :
  Dental Officer - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
  Flight Lieutenant. – bDS or equivalent with full 
registration with the Sri Lanka medical council. 
  Dental Student - male/female (Regular) 
  Flying Officer. – Completed final BDS Part I and 
studying in the final year. 
  Pilot Officer.– completed 2nd bDS and beginning of 
3rd year. 
 Note :
 * Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to 
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of 
commission in the rank of Flight Lieutenant. 
 * Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka 
Air Force until completion of final year. They will be 
commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on 
completion of bDS Degree and full registration with 
the SLmc. 
 * opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies 
depending on the exigencies of the service. 
 * Dental students to submit a certificate from their 
respective Universities depicting their year of studies. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2603
 ( e) Administrative Veterinary Branch :
  Veterinary Officer - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
 * candidates should possess bVSc veterinary four 
years degree or an equivalent, recognized by the 
University Grant commission of Sri Lanka and 
working experience will be considered as an added 
qualification. 
 ( f) Administrative band branch
  band master (male) Regular
 * A minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination with four credits including credit in 
English language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
tamil language in one sitting ; and  
 * Qualified up to Grade V or above of the Royal 
college or trinity college of music London or 
equivalent qualifications ; 
 * Ability to train and conduct military band/orchestra 
and a credit pass in music at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination will be an added qualification ; 
 * Ability to compose music in western and oriental 
tradition as well as a sound knowledge on playing 
Western and oriental instrument will be considered 
as a special qualification ; or
 * A minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination with four credits including credit in 
English language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
tamil language in one sitting ; and  
 * Degree in Fine Arts from the institute of Aesthetic 
Education (Music) in Sri Lanka or passed final Level 
(music) in national Dance and music examination 
of Sri Lanka or "Visharadha" Part ii level from 
"bahathkande" music Academy in india ; 
 * Ability to train and conduct oriental/western bands 
and a credit pass in music at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination will be an added qualification ; 
 * Ability to compose music in both oriental and 
western traditions as well as a sound knowledge 
on playing western and oriental instruments will be 
considered as a speical qualification. 
3. Other entry Requirements : 
 ( a) nationality : must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ( b) civil Status : married/unmarried
 ( c) Gender : male/Female (As applicable)
 ( d) Age : As at 30th April, 2016
  (1)  For technical Engineering, 
      Logistics  
   (mess manager)
    branch and Dental Students : 18 to 30 years
  (2)  For Electorinics Engineering,
   Dental Officers, Administrative
   Veterinary, Administrative band : 18 to 35 years
 
 ( e) Height : male - 5' 6" and above
    Dental Male Officers 5’5” and above
   : Female - 5' 4" and above
    Dental Female Officers 5’3’ and 
above
 ( f) Weight : 17<bmi <26 male
    17<bmi <25 Female
       Weight (Kg)
    bmi = –––––––––
       Height
2 (m)
 ( g) chest : minimum 32" (male)
 ( h) colour Vision  : cP2
  Standard
 ( i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(Without spectacles)
    Dental branch left eye 6/6 and right 
eye 6/6 (with or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may possesses special qualifications may 
at the discretion of the commander of the Air Force be considered, 
even though he/she may not have the requisite height/weight 
provided he/she possesses the requisite professional qualifications. 
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as 
may be prescribed by the commander of the Air Force. 
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will 
be required to comply with any rules already made or may be 
made hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the 
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the 
provisions in the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956. 
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot 
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as 
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience. 
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training 
at such places as decided by the commander of the Air Force. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2604
If at any time during training, the officer is reported on by the 
authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due 
to causes within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/
her commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary 
action in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary 
Regulations. 
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders 
issued from time to time. 
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air 
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in 
Gazette no. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time 
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer 
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”. 
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission 
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force 
Act may be allowed by the President to do so. the provisions of 
any bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service 
in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede 
the provisions of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. 
Retirement from the Air Force will be applicable under conditions 
specified in the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code. 
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in 
any part of the world at any time. 
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. 
He/She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. 
Batman service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration 
allowance and batman allowance are paid to the mess. 
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter 
if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment 
Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will 
be entitled to a rental allowance as stated in para 15 (d ) (17). 
15. (a ) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as 
follows :–
  Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a. 
  Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 
538,380 p. a. 
  Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 =                              
Rs. 538,380 p. a. 
  Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 
538,380 p. a. 
  Wing commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =                         
Rs. 551,700 p. a. 
  Group captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =                             
Rs. 667,860 p. a. 
 ( b) Pay applicable to Dental Officers : 
  Dental ii - Rs. 306,180 -4x7,740 -10x7,800 -3 x 
12,600 - Rs. 452,940 p. a.
  Grade i - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140           
p. a.
  Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 -12x 15,720 -                      
Rs. 697,320 p. a.
 ( c) Other allowances applicable to Dental Officers : 
  (1)  Pensionable allowances :
   Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
   Grade ii – Rs. 1,700 per month
   Grade i – Rs. 3,400 per month
   Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
  (2) non pensionable allowances :                                                                                         
   Preliminary Grade - Rs 2,125 per month 
   Grade ii – Rs. 1,700 per month
   Grade i - Rs. 400 per month
  (3) DAt allowances - Rs. 35,000 per month
  (4) Extra duty payments :
   Preliminary Grade - Rs. 335 per hour
   Grade ii - Rs. 383 per hour
  Grade i - Rs. 528 per hour
  Specialist Grade - Rs. 628 per hour
 (5) Language proficiency allowance  :
  Preliminary Grade - Rs. 795.00 per hour
  Grade ii - Rs. 800.00 per hour
  Grade i - Rs. 1,200 per hour
  Specialist Grade - Rs. 1,460 per hour
 (6) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d ) 
are to be calculated separately as applicable. 
 
 ( d) Service Allowances :
 1. cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
 2. incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five 
years of service. 
 3. Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month. 
 4. Additional hard line allowance Rs. 4,400 per month 
for those serving in operational areas. 
 5. Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will 
be paid for per day).
 6. interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month. 
 8. batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 15,167.70 per month (if 
permitted to live out). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum 
of Rs. 637.50 per month). 
 11. Sepcial allowance 20% of consolidated salary. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2605
 12. three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for 
officer, spouse and children).
 13. An additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in 
messes to travel from the mess to the hometown 
once a month. 
 14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 15. Free medical facilities (including for families if 
applicable). 
 16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to 
a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of 
work within 30 miles radius. 
 17. Rent Allowance for married officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot 
Officer to Group Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to             
Rs. 4,250 per month. 
 18. Service Allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as 
applicable (Payable to service Dental Officers in 
consideration to the number of complete years of 
service)
 19. Additional Service Allowance Rs. 1,500 per month 
(applicable to service Dental Officers only). 
 20. 1/20 Allowance - c on pay x 1/20 x 3 days 
(maximum) per month (applicable to service Dental 
Officers only).
 21. Extra Duty Payments 120 hours (maximum) per 
month (applicable to service Dental Officers only).
 22. budget interim allowances Rs. 10,000 per month.
 23. telephone bill allowances :
  Wing commander - Rs. 2,000 per month 
  Group captain  - Rs. 4,000 per month 
  Specialist Doctors  - Rs. 7,000 per month 
  Doctors  - Rs. 4,000 per month 
 24. Engineering allowances Rs. 15,000 per month 
(applicable to Engineering Officers only).
 25. Veterinary allowances Rs. 7,500 per month 
(applicable to Veterinary Officers only)
16. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the Air Force 
Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from time 
to time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans 
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are 
as per Widows and orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme 
Regulations 1970. 
17. Instructions to applicants :
 ( a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form 
specified below. All cages of the application should 
be completed neatly with as much details as possible. 
Applications should be addressed to “command 
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training 
School Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later 
than 1200 noon on 08th January, 2016 under registered 
cover. the envelope enclosing the application should 
be marked  “Application for commission in the ........... 
Branch” Applications received after the closing date 
and not in accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will not be 
entertained. 
 ( b) candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/boards/civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their Heads of 
Department/corporations/boards/civil Establishments 
and should bear a certificate to the effect that the 
candidate will be released if selected. 
 (c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
 2. certificates of the highest academic and 
professional qualifications obtained ; 
 3. certificates of character from at least two 
responsible persons who are personally 
acquainted with the applicant ;
 4. certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc. ;
 5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the 
application. 
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced 
only if and when the applicant is called for the interviews. 
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the 
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if 
discovered after the selection. 
19. Selection interview :
 ( a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only. 
candidates so selected from the Preliminary interview 
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be 
prescribed by the commander of the Air Force. the 
final selection will then be made after an interview 
appointed by the ministry of Defence. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2606
 ( b) candidates selected for interviews will be informed in 
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, 
no travelling or other expenses will be paid in this 
respect. 
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an 
interview he/she is to produce his/her national identity 
card issued by the Department of Registration of 
Persons. 
 ( d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final 
interviews will be required to present themselves before 
an Air Force medical board. 
 (e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection 
of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate. 
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will 
not be notified. 
 
gP Bulathsinghala,
 Air marshal, 
 commander of the Air Force. 
Headquarters, 
Sri Lanka Air Force, 
P. o. box 594, 
colombo 02. 
APPLicAtion FoR commiSSion in tHE SRi LAnKA 
REGULAR/VoLUntEER AiR FoRcE 
in tHE ................ bRAncH
 1. nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
 2. Full name (As per the national identity card) :––––––––––.
 3. national  identity card number :–––––––––––.
 4. branch applied :––––––––––.
 5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
 6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 7. nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 8. School attended :––––––––––.
 9. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 10. E-mail Address :––––––––––.
 11. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
 12. Height :–––––'––––––".
 13. District :–––––––––––.
 14. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 15. Grama Seva Division and number :–––––––––––.
 16. telephone number :–––––––––––.
 17. civil Status :–––––––––––.
 18. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications 
obtained : 
 Name of School/ Type of  Year  Subjects passed
 University examination of (including
   examination grading)
 ordinary Level
 Advanced Level
 Professional 
  Qualifications
 other
 19. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University 
(if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 20. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 Father 
 mother 
 21. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 22. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of 
teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc. 
and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
 23. other achievements of note at School/University or with 
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :             
–––––––––––.
 24. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, 
cadet corps or boy Scout organization :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2607
 25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or 
any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
 26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military 
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 27. if earlier employed in a Government Department or in the 
Public Sector/ board/corporation (including the central 
bank, national bank, Universities, Joint Stock companies 
controlled by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination 
of employment :–––––––––––.
 28. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 29. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will 
be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka 
Air Force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of Applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
12–863
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  AIR  fORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies 
V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer 
Cadets and Lady Officer cadets in the following branches :–
 ( a) General Duties Pilot branch (male) ;
 ( b) t echnical Engineering branch (male/Female) ;
 ( c) Electronics Engineering branch (male) ;
 ( d) Logistics branch (male/Female) ;
 ( e) Administrative branch (male/Female) ;
 ( f) Administrative Regiment branch (male/Female) ;
 ( g) operations Air branch (male). 
2. Applications are invited from male/female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below : 
BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications 
(Accredited by the General Sir John kotelawala 
Defence university)
General Duties Pilot/Operations Air branches :
 A minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. o/L 
examination with four credits including credit passes 
in English language, mathematics, Science and an 
ordinary pass in Sinhala/tamil language in one sitting 
and ordinary passes in three subjects at the G. c. E. 
A/L examination in Physical/Science Stream (Physics, 
chemistry, combined maths) bio Science stream 
(Physics, chemistry, biology) (as applicable) in one 
sitting. 
Technical Engineering/Electronic Engineering 
branches :
 A minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. o/L 
examination with four credits including credit passes 
in English Language, mathematics, Science and an 
ordinary pass in Sinhala/tamil language in one sitting 
and ordinary passes in three subjects at the G. c. E. 
A/L examination in Physical Science Stream (Physics, 
chemistry, combined maths) in one sitting. 
Logistics/Administrative/Administrative Regiment 
branches :
 A minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. o/L 
examination with four credits including credit passes 
in English language, mathematics, Science and an 
ordinary pass in Sinhala/tamil language in one sitting 
and ordinary passes in three subjects at the G. c. E. 
A/L examination in Physical/bio Science/commerce 
technology Streams in one sitting. Students of the Arts 
Stream with a minimum of three ordinary passes at the 
G. c. E. A/L examination are also eligible to apply for 
the Administrative Regiment branch. 
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following 
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air 
Force.
 ( a) nationality : must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ( b) Age : not less than 18 years and not more 
than 22 years as at 20th April, 2016
 ( c) Height : male - 5' 6" and above
   : Female - 5' 4" and above
 ( d) Weight : male - 17 < bmi < 26
    Female - 17 < mbi < 25
     Weight (Kg)
    bmi = –––––––––
     Height
2 (m)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2608
 ( e) chest : male - 32" (minimum)
 ( f) colour Vision  : cP2
  Standard
 ( g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
 ( h) civil Status : candidates must be unmarried. no 
cadet will be permitted to marry 
whilst under training and for a 
further period of one (1) year from 
the date of commissioning. 
4. Due considerations will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement 
of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview 
the height, vision and weight will be measured. candidates whose 
height, vision and weight are below the standard specified in the 
Gazette notification and who have no exceptional skill will not 
be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill or 
value to the service may at the discretion of the commander of 
the Air Force be considered even though he/she may not have the 
requisite height provided he/she possesses the requisite academic 
and professional qualifications. 
6. Conditions of service : 
 ( a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as 
a cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner 
as for other ranks and will undergo a basic combat 
training course. on successful completion of training, 
the duration of which will depend on the branch, the 
status allocated on his/her enlistment as an other Rank 
will lapse and will receive a permanent commission in 
the rank fo Pilot Officer. 
 ( b) cadets will be requried to undergo training at a place 
in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the commander 
of the Air Force in consultation with the ministry of 
Defence. 
 ( c) During the period of training as cadets and thereafter, 
personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
 ( d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, 
equipment and medical facilities. 
 ( e) During the period of training, a cadet will be 
accommodated in an Air Force mess and will be 
provided with food. 
 ( f) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his/
her candidature for a commission during training, the 
parent or guardian will be required to refund to the 
Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that 
time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such 
cadet. 
 ( g) if at any time during his/her course a cadet is reported 
by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of 
misconduct or due to causes within his/her control to 
quality for a commission, his/her parent or guardian 
will be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Air Force 
all expenses incurred on his/her training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the 
Government of Sri Lanka. 
 ( h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 27 of the application form in respect of sub-
paragraphs (f) and (g) above and forward them together 
with the application. Parent or guardian will be 
required to enter in to a bond subsequently in this form 
with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment 
of these candidates as cadets. 
 ( j) candidates who possess the requirement as per para 
2 and 3 will be called for the preliminary interview 
and if successful will be called for the officer quality 
tests. Candidates who pass the officer quality tests will 
be called for medical Examinations (All candidates 
selected will be medically examined under Sri Lanka 
Air Force arrangements) and if applicable flying 
aptitude tests. candidates who successfully complete 
these tests will be called for the final interview. The 
required number of candidates per branch will be 
selected according to merit at these interviews and 
tests. 
 ( k) A single officer is required to live in the officers mess.           
He/she is provided with furnished accommodation 
and food. batman service will be provided. A single 
officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are 
paid to the mess. 
 ( l) A married Officer may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants. 
 (m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training 
in any part of the world at any time.
 (n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and 
roders issued from time to time. 
7. Official Language Requirements.- the selected candidates 
will be required to comply with any rules already made or may 
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the 
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the 
provisions in the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2609
8. Pay and Allowances : 
 ( a) Consolidated pay rate.– the scale of consolidated pay 
applicable to officer cadets and Commissioned Ranks 
shall be as follows :–
  Officer Cadet - Rs. 187,620 p. a.
  Pilot Officer –Rs. 223,500 p. a. (cadet entry)
  Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a. (non cadet entry)
  Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 =                       
 Rs. 538,380 \p. a. 
  Flight Lieutenant  –  Rs. 321,660  - 28 x 7,740 =                 
 Rs. 538,380 p. a. 
  Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 =                   
 Rs. 538,380  p. a. 
  Wing commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =                
 Rs. 551,700 p. a. 
  Group captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =                     
 Rs. 667,860 p. a. 
 ( b) Other Allowances : 
 1. cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
 2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five 
years of service. 
 3. Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month. 
 4. Additional Hardline allowance Rs. 4,400 per month 
for those serving in operational areas. 
 5. Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will 
be paid for day).
 6. interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month. 
 8. batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 15,167.70 per month (if 
permitted to live out). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum 
of Rs. 637.50 per month). 
 11. Sepcial allowance 20% of consolidated salary. 
 12. three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for 
officer, spouse and children).
 13. An additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in 
messes to travel from the mess to the hometown 
once a month. 
 14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 15. Free medical facilities (including for families if 
applicable). 
 16. Married officers permitted to live-out are entitled to 
a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of 
work within 30 miles radius. 
 17. Flying pay for those in the general duties pilot 
branch.
 18. Rent Allowances for married officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot 
Officer to Group Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to             
Rs. 4,250 per month. 
 19. budget interim allowances Rs. 10,000 per month. 
9. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the Air Force 
Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from time 
to time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans 
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are 
as per Widows and orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme 
Regulations 1970. 
10. Instructions to Applicants :
 ( a) Applications should be submitted in applicant's own 
hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All 
cages of the application should be completed neatly 
with as much details as possible. Applications should 
be forwarded under registered cover to : "command 
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force Trade Training 
School, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to reach him not 
later than 1200 noon on 08th January 2016. the 
envelope enclosing the application should be marked 
"Application for cadetship/Lady cadetship in the 
.................. branch". A candidate will be allowed to 
apply for only one branch, those who apply for more 
than one branch the applications will be rejected. 
Applications received after the closing date and not in 
accordance with the requirements of this notification 
and not in registered post mail will not be entertained. 
 ( b) candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/boards/civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their Heads of 
Department/corporations/boards/civil Establishments 
and should bear a certificate to the effect that the 
candidate will be released if selected. 
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate 
issued for the purpose of the education code will 
not be accepted) ;
 2. certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch applied for; 
 3. Certificates of trade/technical training and/or 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution ;
 4. Two recent certificates of character. One of these 
should be from the principal of the last school 
attended and the other from a responsible person 
who has the know of the applicant for more 
than two years or from the present employer (if 
employed).
 5. certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc. ;
 ( d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2610
 (e) no documents or original copies of documents should 
be attached to the application form. 
 (f) the Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any 
originals of certificates if enclosed with the application 
form. 
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the 
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if 
discovered after selection. 
12. Selection Interviews etc. :
 ( a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates 
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be 
prescribed by the commander of the Air Force. the 
final selection will then be made after an interview of 
those selected candidates by a selection board appointed 
by the ministry of Defence. 
 ( b) candidates selected for interviews will be informed in 
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. 
travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this 
respect. 
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an 
interview he/she is to produce his/her national identity 
card issued by the Department of Registration of 
Persons. 
 ( d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews 
will be required to present themselves before an Air 
Force medical board. 
 (e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection 
of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate. 
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will 
not be notified. 
 
gP Bulathsinghala,
 Air marshal, 
 commander of the Air Force. 
Headquarters, 
Sri Lanka Air Force, 
P. o. box 594, 
colombo 02. 
APPLicAtion FoR oFFicER cADEt/LADy oFFicER  
cADEt in tHE ........................... bRAncH oF tHE  
SRi LAnKA AiR FoRcE
 1. nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
 2. Full name (As per the national identity card) :––––––––––.
 3. national  identity card number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 6. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
  (Age as at 20th April 2016) :
   y ears :––––––––,  months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
 7. Height :–––––'––––––".
 8. nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
 9. District :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
 12. telephone number :–––––––––––.
 13. married or Single :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School attended :––––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications 
obtained : 
 Name of School/ Type of  Year of  Subjects passed
 University examination examination (including
    grading)
 ordinary Level
 Advanced Level
 other
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University 
(if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2611
 18. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 Father 
 mother 
 19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of 
teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc. 
and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at School/University or with 
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :             
–––––––––––.
 22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, 
cadet corps or boy Scout organization :–––––––––––.
 23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or 
any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military 
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. if earlier employed in a Government Department or in the 
Public Sector/ board/corporation (including the central 
bank, national bank, Universities, Joint Stock companies 
controlled by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination 
of employment :–––––––––––.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will 
be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka 
Air Force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of Applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
28.  Declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of the 
applicant :
 ( a) i am the parent/guardian of ........................... who is an 
applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and 
who has signed the declaration in cage 26 of the form of 
application above. 
 ( b) i  hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above 
named applicant being selected for a course of training 
for the following. 
 (1) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event 
of the above named applicant voulntarily terminating 
his/her candidature for a commission during his/her 
period of training all expenses incurred upto that 
time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such 
applicant. 
 (2) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event 
of the above named applicant reported on by the 
authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons of 
misconduct or due to causes within his/her own 
control) for the issue of a commission all the 
expenses incurred on his/her account by the Republic 
of Sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Parent/Guardian. 
Date :–––––––––––.
 name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of First Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
 name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Second Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
12–864

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2612
DEPARTmENT Of EXAmINATIONS, SRI LANkA
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
the Post of Examination Data Assistant
Grade III-2015
APPLicAtionS are being called from qualified Sri Lankan 
citizens for the open competitive Examination for recruitment 
to the post of Examination Data Assistant-Grade iii of non-
technical Segment 2 - management Assistant of the Department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
01. Selection will be made on order of merit of the results 
obtained at a written examination conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations only in colombo and a structured 
interview.
02. Salary scale.– According to the Public Administration 
circular no. 06/2006(iV) dated 24.08.2007 the monthly Salary 
scale of the post of Examination Data Assistant-Grade iii, ii and 
i are as follows:
Rs.13,120 - 10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 -10 x 320 - Rs.22,040 
to exceed Rs.14,470, promotion to Grade ii and 
to exceed Rs.16,680, promotion to Grade i are necessary.
03. Service conditions.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable.Relevant contributions should be made to Widows'/
Widowers’ and Orphans' Pension Scheme. This position is 
limited to the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. However 
the selected recruits could be appointed to serve in any area 
of the island under the department. the recruits to this post 
of Examination Data Assistant-Grade iii through this open 
competitive examination shall be subjected to a probationary 
period of 03 years.
04. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are required 
for recruitment to the post of Examination Data Assistant-               
Grade iii:
(a)  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka. 
(b)  Should be of excellent character. 
(c) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 
years of age as at the closing date of applications.
(d)  Following educational qualifications should be completed:
 (i) Should have passed the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in 
one sitting in six (06) subjects with credits for Sinhala/
tamil/English Language, mathematics and 2 other 
subjects.
(ii) Should have passed the G. c. E. (A/L) Examination at 
least in one subject (Excluding common General test 
and General English).
(e) Professional qualifications:
 (i) Should have obtained minimum of level 3 of 
National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) in the 
field of Computer/Information and Communication 
Technology; or any equivalent qualification accepted 
by tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
(f) experience.– minimum of 06 months experience in 
computer based data entering.
(g) Physical fitness.– Should be physically and mentally fit 
to discharge the duties of the post and ability to work day 
and night when necessary, is expected.
* Fulfillment of all required qualifications for the post on 
or before 20th January 2016 is compulsory for all the 
applicants.
05. examination procedure.– this consists of a written test 
and a structured interview. this examination will be conducted in 
Sinhala, tamil and English media and the applied medium could 
not be changed later.
5.1 Written Test :
 Subject Maximum Marks Time  Pass Marks
   hours
  
computer Literacy 100 02  40%
Computer literacy. – the knowledge pertaining 
to nVQ 3 on computer/information  
and communication technology will be 
tested through questions in the written test.
5.2 Structured interview :
 Subject Maximum marks
 Structured interview 100
Structured interview :
* t wice the number of applicants as the number of 
existing vacancies will be called for the structured 
interview considering the order of merit of the above 
written examination. this structured interview 
consists of two phases.
(a) Phase one:
  Main titles of awarding marks Maximum marks
   awarded
  (i) For additional educational 3
   qualifications
  (ii) For additional professional 35
   qualifications
  (iii) For the performance at the interview 05
      t otal marks                                        70 
* commissioner General of Examinations will approve 
a descriptive marking scheme for each main title for 
award of marks mentioned on the above table, within 
the boundary of maximum marks allocation.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2613
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application at your 
possession and the applicant should ensure whether the 
perfected application is in compliance with the specimen 
form appeared in the examination notification, else it could 
be rejected.
8.1 commissioner General of Examinations will issue 
admission cards to all applicants who paid the 
examination fee and forwarded their applications on time, 
on the assumption that the applicants have fulfilled all 
the required qualifications mentioned in the examination 
notification. Issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not necessarily mean that the applicant has fulfilled 
the required qualifications to sit the examination. When 
the qualifications of the applicants are checked at the 
interview, if it is found that an applicant has not got all the 
required qualifications, as per the examination notification 
his/her candidature will be cancelled.
8.2 "open competitive Examination for Recruitment to the 
Post of Examination Data Assistant-Grade iii - 2015" 
should be written on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
8.3 c andidate's signature on the application should be attested 
by a principal of a government school/ justice of peace/
commissioner of oaths/notary public/ a commissioned 
officer of three armed forces/an officer in the police 
service holding a gazetted post or a permanent officer 
in the public service in receipt of an annual salary of 
Rs.240,360 or above.
8.4 the closing date of the application is 20th January 2016. 
Perfected applications should be sent by registered post 
on or before that date to the following address:
commissioner General of Examinations.
organization and Foreign Examinations branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
P. o. box - 1503,
colombo.
09. Appearing for the exam.– A press notice informing the 
date of examination will be published by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka once the admission cards are issued to 
the applicants. Applicants who do not receive their admission 
cards, even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement should 
notify the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. It is advisable to furnish the name 
of examination, your full name, address and national identity 
card number when notifying the department and in case of 
applicants outside colombo, your letter of request furnishing the 
above information should be faxed with a fax number to which 
the copy of the admission card should be sent. Further it will be 
advantageous to keep in hand the photocopy of the application 
form kept at your possession and the copy of the payment receipt, 
received after paying the respective examination fee and receipt 
of registration to prove your particulars.
(b)  Phase two:
  A practical test will be held to check the computer 
typing ability of the applicants facing the structured 
interview. marks will be awarded as indicated below:
 Criteria with respect to the test Maximum
  marks awarded
 (i) computerization of a given document 10
  exactly as given
 (ii) minimum time spent for computer 10
  typesetting and taking the relevant 
  printout
 (iii) For accurate spellings in that 10
      t otal marks 30
* Candidates will be recruited to fill the number of existing 
vacancies on order of merit based on the total marks 
obtained at the above two (02) phases of the structured 
interview and the written test.
5.3 Even though this is a competitive exam, candidates 
should obtain minimum of forty (40%) marks out of 
hundred for the written test, to be eligible to qualify for 
an appointment.
06. Penalties for providing false information .– Accurate 
information should be furnished with utmost care when perfecting 
the application. if it is found that any candidate is ineligible, 
his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage before, 
during or after the examination. if it is found that any applicant 
has submitted false information, he/she is liable to be dismissed 
from the service at any stage.
07. examination fee.– Fee for the examination will be Rs.500. 
This fee can be paid only to any post office/sub post office under 
the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations on or before 20.01.2016.the receipt obtained by 
paying the examination fee should be affixed on the relevant 
cage of the application form, so that it cannot be detached. (it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for future benefit) 
the examination fee will not be refunded in any case and money 
orders or stamps will not be accepted.
08. Application must be prepared using A4 (21cm x 29cm) 
(normal half sheet) size paper in such a way that:
(a) Paragraph Nos.01 to 03 appear on the first page,
(b) Paragraph nos.04 to 07 appear on the second page, and 
from Paragraph no.08 onwards appear on the third page.
(c) When preparing the application, it is necessary to insert the 
name of the examination as the heading, in English too, in 
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications,and in addition 
to tamil in tamil applications.
* the applications not in conformity to the specimen form, 
or not paid the examination fee before the closing date and 
incomplete applications that are inaccurately filled will 
be rejected without any notice. Applicants should bear 
the losses incurred due to incomplete applications. it is 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2614
10. A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity to the 
satisfaction of the examination supervisor by providing either of 
the following documents:
 (i) Valid national identity card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport.
11. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not 
necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit 
for the exam. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
connection with the conduct of the examination. in case such rules 
and regulations are violated, he/she will be subjected to penalties 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
12. commissioner General of Examinations reserves the 
right to decide any matter not covered in this notification. All 
candidates should adhere to act in accordance with the general 
examination rules and regulations notified in this Gazette.
 W. m. n. J. 
PushPakumara,
 commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
battaramulla,
on 23rd December, 2015.
SPEcimEn  APPLicAtion  FoRm
DePartment of examinations, sri lanka
open competitive exAminAtion For recruitment to the post 
oF exAminAtion dAtA AssistAnt - GrAde iii - 2015
(indicate the correct symbol/number clearly in the given cages)
 
(For office use)       
Language medium to appear for the examination:
 Sinhala  - 2
 t amil  - 3
 English  - 4 
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1  name with initials, state initials at the end:–––––––––––.
    (in English capital letters) Example: PERERA, A. b. c.
 1.2 name in full:–––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
 1.3 name in full:–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/t amil)
 1.4 national identity card no:
02. 2.1 Permanent address:–––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
 2.2 Permanent address:–––––––––––.
   (Sinhala/t amil)
 2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent 
    :–––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
03. 3.1 Gender:
   male  - 1
   Female  - 0
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 Date of birth:
   y ear:                             month:               Date:
 
 3.3 Age as on 20.01.2016: 
   y ears:                      months:                  Days:
 
 3.4 telephone no. : 
04. 4.1 Educational qualifications:
  Details of G. c. E. (o/L) Examination:
 (i)  year and month of the Examination:–––––––––––.
 (ii) index no. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results:
 Subject Grade  Subject Grade
1.   6.
2.   7.
3.   8.
4.   9.
5.   10
   
 4.2 Details of G. c. E. (A/L) Examination:
  (i)  year and month of the Examination:–––––––––––.
  (ii)  index no. :–––––––––––.
  (iii)  Results:
 Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2015'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2015
2615
05. Professional Qualifications:
 Course Year  Technical NVQ 
  followed institution Level
06.  Other educational and professional qualifications:–––––––––.
07.  Have you ever been convicted by a court of law?
 (Indicate √ mark in the relevant cage) (If 'Yes' give 
particulars)
 y es                           no
08. Details of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee:
  (i)  Office of payment:–––––––––––.
  (ii)  number and date of the receipt:–––––––––––.
  (iii)  Amount paid:–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt here so as not to be detached
09. Certificate of the Applicant:
 ( a) i solemnly declare that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. i agree to bear the losses that can be 
incurred due to not filling and/or inaccurately filling 
any of the sections herein. Further i declare that all the 
sections herein are perfected accurately by me.
 (b) i am also aware that if any particulars furnished by me 
are proved to be false before appointment, i am liable 
to be disqualified and if found after appointment, I am 
liable to be dismissed from the service.
 (c) Further i declare that i will abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations, with respect to the conduct of the 
examination.
 (d) i will not alter any information provided herein.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the applicant’s signature:
 i certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss .............................
is known to me personally, he/she placed his/her signature before 
me on ..........................., he/she has paid the relevant examination 
fee and pasted the receipt on this application.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Attester.
Date:–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester:–––––––––––.
Designation:–––––––––––.
Address:––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
12–965
PRintED  At  tHE  DEPARtmEnt  oF  GoVERnmEnt  PRintinG,  SRi  LAnKA.