

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$68 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'03'02
No. 2321/68  -  thursday,   march  02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a-  G 39005 - 21 (03/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  uRbAN  DEvELOPmENT  AuThORITY  LAw  No. 41 Of  1978
Order under Section 3
By virtue of the powers vested in me under section 3 of the urban development authority Law No. 41, 1978 as amended, 
I, Prasanna Ranathunga, the Minister of Urban Development and Housing being of the opinion that the area specified in 
Column I of the Schedule hereto and having the metes and bounds specified in the corresponding entry in column II of that 
schedule is suitable for development, do by this Order, declare such area to be an urban development area for the purpose 
of that section.
 P
rasanna ranathunga (M.P),
 minister of urban development and housing.
ministry of urban development and housing,
17th and 18th Floor,
“suhurupaya”, subuthipura road,
Battaramulla,
20th February, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023
2a
scheduLe I
Declaration and Expansion of monaragala urban Development Area
Column I
total Land area comprising of parts of balance part of  
No. 130B Weliyaya Grama Niladhari division, balance part 
of No. 129e magandanamulla Grama Niladhari division, 
balance part of No. 129B monaragala Grama Niladhari  
division, balance part of No. 129e Wiharamulla Grama 
Niladhari division, balance part of No. 129c hulandawa 
Grama Niladhari division, balance part of No. 129 muppane 
Grama Niladhari division, part of No. 129d hindikiula 
Grama Niladhari division, part of No. 129G hulandawa Left 
Grama Niladhari division and in addition to that part of No. 
130d raththanapitiya Grama Niladhari division, part of No. 
127 Kolonwinna Grama Niladhari division, part of No. 129a 
Kaudawa Grama Niladhari division & No. 129I aliyawatta 
Grama Niladhari division, situated in monaragala divisional 
secretariat, monaragala district, uva Province and bounded 
by meets and bounds as specified in Column II including the 
area part of No. 130 Weliyaya Grama Niladhari division, part 
of No.129e magandanamulla Grama Niladhari division, 
part of No. 129B monaragala Grama Niladhari division, 
part of No. 129F Wiharamulla Grama Niladhari division, 
part of No. 129c hulandawa Grama Niladhari division, 
part of No. 129d hindikiula Grama Niladhari division, 
part of No. 129 muppane Grama Niladhari division, part of  
No. 129G hulandawa Left Grama Niladhari division, 
belonging to the monaragala urban development area 
declared as an urban development area under extra Ordinary 
Gazette Notification No. 58/16 dated 1979.06.01.
Column II
North:
commencing from the point where the, center line of 
dehiwellanda road & raththanapitiya road interconects a 
line drawn eastwards & Northeastwards along the center line 
of sirimayaura mawatha, thence a line drawn Northwards 
& Northeastwards along the sirimayura mawatha until it 
meets the Western boundary of No. 130B Weliyaya Grama 
Niladhari division, thence a line drawn southwestwards, 
Northwards, Northeastwards, Westwards, Northeastwards, 
Westwards & Northeastwards along the Western Boundary of 
No. 130B Weliyaya GN division.  until it meets the Nothern 
boundary of No. 130B Weliyaya GN division thence a line 
drawn eastwards, southeastwards, eastwards, southwards, 
eastwards, Northeastwards, along the Northen boundary 
of No. 130B Weliyaya Grama Niladhari division, until it 
meets the Northern boundary of No. 129I aliyawatta Grama 
Niladhari division, thence a line drawn southwestwards, 
Northwards, eastwards & southwards along the eastern 
boundary of No. 129I aliyawatta Grama Niladhari division, 
until it meets the Northern boundary of No. 127 Kolonwinna 
Grama Niladhari division, thence a line drawn southwards, 
eastwards Northeastwards, southeastwards along the 
Northern boundary of No. 127 Kolonwinna Grama Niladhari 
division, until the point where it meets the center line of 
Beraliyapura Kolonwinna road.
East:
From the last mentioned point a line drawn southwestwards 
along the centerline of Beraliyapura – Kolonwinna road, 
until the point where it meets the centerline of Wedikumbura 
road.
South:
From the last mentioned  point a line drawn southwestwards 
& southwestwards along the center line of Wedikumbura 
road, until it meets the eastern Boundary of No. 129I 
aliyawatta GN division, thence a line drawn along the 
southwest boundary of No. 129I aliyawatta GN division 
until it meets the intersection point of center line of uda 
arawa road and southern boundary of No. 129I aliyawatta 
GN division, thence a line drawn Westwards, east 
southwards, southwestwards & east southwards along the 
center line of udaarawa road, until it meets the center line 
of hulandawa Left road, until it meets the starting point  
of Mahawela paddy field, thence a line drawn Northwards 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023
3a
scheduLe I (Contd.)
Declaration and Expansion of monaragala urban Development Area
& Westwards along the eastern boundary & Northern 
boundary of  Mahawela paddy field, until it meets the center 
line of hulandawa Oya, thence a line drawn southwestwards 
aloing the center line of hulandawa Oya, until it meets the 
southern boundary of No. 129 muppane Grama Niladhari 
division, thence a line drawn Northwestwards along the 
southern boundary of No. 129 muppane Grama Niladhari 
division until the point where it meets the center line of 
Badulla Passara main road.
west:
From the last mentioned point, a line drawn Northwards 
along the Badulla – Passara main road, until it meets the 
intersection point where rathmal mawatha commences, 
thence a line drawn Northwards and Northwestwards along 
the center line of rathmal mawatha, until it meets the 
southern boundary point of sumedha Wewa, thence a line 
drawn Northwards along the sumedha Wewa bunt, until 
it meets the Northern boundary point of sumedha Wewa, 
thence a line drawn Northwards along the center point of 
dehiwellanda road, until it meets the starting point, located 
at the junction where the center line of dehiwellanda road 
and rattanapitiya road intersect  
eOG 03 - 0018
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Column IIColumn I