

<!-- page 1 -->

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV(A) : PROVINCIAL – COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
NOTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
wxl 2065$37 – 2018 wfm%a,a ui 05 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2018'04'05
No. 2065/37 – THURSDAY, APRIL 05, 2018
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG3976– 27 (04/2018)
NOTHERN PROVINCE INDIGENOUS MEDICINE STATUTE
No.  09 OF 2016
NOTICE is hereby given that the Nothern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Nothern Province Indigenous
Medicine Statute No. 09 of 2016 on 10th January 2017 and that the Hon. Governor Nothern Province has given his Assent to
it on 02nd April 2018.
K. THEIVENDRAM,
Secretary,
Council Secretariat,
Nothern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A 9 Road,
Kaithady.
03rd April, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
Short title and
date of
Operation.
Establishment
of the Department
of provincial
indigenous
medicine.
Commissioner
Indigenous
Medicine of
Northern
Province and
Staff.
Objectives of
the
Department.
NOTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
INDIGENOUS MEDICINE STATUTE No.  09 OF 2016 OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF
NORTHERN PROVINCE
A Statute to provide, by implementing the subject of “Indigenous Medicine system” mentioned in list I of
Table 9 embodied in the constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic Of Sri Lanka, for implementation of
curative, preventive care services and health education,establish Indigenous Medical community medical
services  development, and conservation of the same; by using Indigenous Medicine system for the
people of Northern Province;  the establishment, and development  of Indigenous Medical institutions,
and  Herbal gardens to provide necessary  facilities  and expansion for same ;  registration of Indigenous
Medical institutions and Indigenous Medical practitioners of Northern Province and regularizing and
supervising 
of the same; improvement and preservation of Indigenous Medicine procedures; to initiate
and maintain Indigenous Medicine Community health services; for matters connected with or incidental to
the aforesaid matters. The provisions of this statute are inconsistent with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of Northern Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Statute shall be cited as the Indigenous Medicine Statute No: 09 of 2016 of the Provincial Council
of Northern Province and will be effective from the date on which it is assent by the Hon.Governor of
Northern Province.
PART I
Establishment of Provincial indigenous medicine department, its composition and tasks
2.There shall be a Department of Indigenous medicine will be established (hereinafter referred to as the
“Department” in this Statute) to achieve the objectives of this statute in Northern Province.
3. (i) There shall be appointed a person as “Commissioner” of Indigenous medicine of Northern
Province”, hereinafter referred to as “Commissioner” in this Statute. He/ She shall be the head
of the department. He/ She will be responsible for the implementation of Provisions of this
statute, according to the directions of the Secretary of Ministry.
(ii) There may be appointed such numbers of Deputy Commissioners of Indigenous Medicine, officers
and Indigenous Medicine   officers as may be necessary to assist the commissioners to implement
the provisions of this statute,
(iii) The appointments, promotions, disciplinary actions and dismissals of the departmental staff other
than the Commissioner of Indigenous Medicine and Deputy Commissioners and Ayurveda doctor
shall be in accordance with part IV of the Provincial Councils Act No.42 of 1987.
 (iv) All those who are in service / posts approved in the department, before the implementation of this
statute, will be considered as having appointed in accordance with this statute.
(v) The Commissioner may delegate any of the powers and duties conferred on him /her according to
this statute, toappropriate staff.
4. The objectives of the department are as mentioned below.
(i)  As in the manner mentioned in item 12 of list 01 of 09 Schedule of Constitution of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, establishing hospitals and institutions of Indigenous Medicine
maintaining and providing services.
(ii)  Implementing preventive measures and health education activities to promote the health condition
of the people of Northern Province, according to Indigenous Medicine system.
(iii) Cultivation,preservation and development of medicinal herbs varieties necessary for indigenous
medicine.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
3A
(IV) (a) Regularizing any dispensaries,hospitals, sales centers, drugs producing centers,yoga service
  centersin the names of meant accordingly, of  siddha, Ayurveda,Unani,Yoga systems.other
  alternative medicine procedures.
  (b) when regularizing the matters in paragraph one, issuing necessary advice guidelines and
facilities, to local Authorities.
5. The activities of the department are as  follows.
(i) Establishment and maintenance of hospitals and dispensaries which provide indigenous medicine
services and establishment of other institutions necessary for the treatment of patients according
to indigenous medicine procedure and maintenance of effective and efficient indigenous medicine
services and regularizing same.
(ii) Preparation and implementation of Health plans for the improvement of health of the people of the
province according to indigenous medical system.
(iii) Establishment, maintenance and administration of hospitals and institutions according to
Indigenous Medicine procedure and as per necessity of the province.
(iv) Making necessary methodology to improve the quality of patient care services and to popularize
the Indigenous Medical system.
(v) Providing necessary knowledge and training to the personnel working in Indigenous Medical
institutions.
(vi) Registration of private, non – governmental organizations, semi government institutions and co-
operative related institutions and formulating guidelines, standards and basic requirements which
shall be followed by the institutions concerned when carrying on activities, implementing and
supervising and regularizing the same.
(vii) Establishment of herbals gardens and maintaining same.
(viii) Encouraging the plantation of medicine herbs and improving the knowledge in that regard.
(ix) Establishing Indigenous Medicine production centers, according to approved policies and
standards to supply necessary medicines to Indigenous Medical institutions functioning in the
province and maintaining same.
(x) Improving the health condition of the people by expanding the Provincial community medical
services for prevention of diseases, preservation of traditional medical systems and providing
services at emergency and disaster situations.
(xi) Encouraging the production of medicines necessary for indigenous medical services in accordance
with approved National Policy and Standards and improving the knowledge regarding same.
(xii) Collecting and publicizing the informations relevant to indigenous medical services to be made,
for health of the people of the province and uplifting same.
(xiii) Collecting preserving and utilizing the information regarding indigenous traditional medical system.
(xiv) Obtaining appropriate resources and suggestions for development activities according to the
laws of the country in order to fulfill the functions and responsibilities of the department.
(xv) Formulating indigenous medical policy, in accordance with National policy.
Activities of
the
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
6.(I) The department shall have all necessary powers, within the law, in order to fulfill its objectives and
to perform the activities assigned, which are mentioned in this statute.
(ii) If information, records or reports are required by commissioner or by any person authorized by
him, from government or non-governmental indigenous medical institution or a person, necessary
to fulfill the objectives and activities mentioned under this statute, such informations, records or
reports should be supplied by such institution or by such person.
Part  II
INDIGENOUS  MEDICAL  INSTITUTIONS.
7. It an Indigenous Medical institution is to operate within the province.
(i) All Properly registered institutions should be published in the Gazette, by commissioner.
(ii) No indigenous Medical institution should be maintained or operated in the province without
the registration certificate issued by Commissioner.
8.    (i) All applications for the registration as an Indigenous Medical Institution. have to be completed in
accordance with the prescribed format and be submitted to the Commissioner.
(ii) When such application is approved by Provincial Commissioner the indigenous medical
institution is to be registered and the certificate of registration is issued to the applicant and
the said premises be registered as relevant indigenous medical institution.
(iii) When the application is rejected, the application not in accordance with the regulations /
rules imposed regarding registration as indigenous medical institution, is to be rejected and
action be taken to inform the applicant in writing.
(iv)  An applicant, who is not satisfied with the decision of commissioner rejecting the application,
can apply again after rectifying the said reasons / defects pointed out by the commissioner.
(v)  The registration fees decided by Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject, is acceptable.
VI. Any person, who has the written permission of the Commissioner, within the general boundaries
of law, shall have the power to enter into the institution or premises registered as indigenous medical
institution, at any necessary time.
(a) To inspect such premises.
(b) To inquire matters from any person or patient who is there.
(c) To examine any documents or reports maintained there and to take copies of the said
documents or reports.
(d) To give orders or advise to take action according to the provisions of this statute or
regulations or rules imposed under same, to the owner and a person – in – charge of the
said premises.
9. When carrying out activities and tasks the Commissioner may request the assistance of Police.
Powers of the
Department.
Registration
of Indigenous
Medical
Institutions
Powers and
Tasks of the
Commissioner
regarding
registered
Indigenous
Medical
Institutions.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
5A
Part  III
10.1. (i) No person in the Northern Province should engage in indigenous medical activity, unless
permission is obtained as prescribed by the department.
(ii) All persons who are engaged and to be engaged in indigenous medical service should
submit their applications in writing to the Commissioner, according to the procedure laid
down for same.
(iii) .The applicant, whose application was rejected, can submit the application again.
11. Any person to be registered as a person engaged in indigenous medical service.
(a) Shall be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Shall possess qualifications issued by a recognized institution and possess qualifications
prescribed according to the procedural rules declared under this statute.
12. In the event, a person who is engaged in indigenous medical service is found guilty by a court that
has appropriate judicial powers, for any offense mentioned in the penal code, the Commissioner can either
suspend or cancel his registration.
13. (I) Appeal can be made by applicant who is not satisfied regarding the decision of the
commissioner, rejecting the application to the secretary, within twenty-one days from the date the said
decision was informed.
(II) The secretary shall inform his decision to the applicant within thirty days of receipt of such appeal.
14. (I) In the supply of goods and services in the Northern province, the words “Siddha”, “Ayurveda”,
“Unani” “Traditional Medication” and “Yoga system” shall not be used without written permission of the
Commissioner.
Part  IV
OFFENCES  AND  PUNISHMENTS
15. If any person, who maintains an indigenous medical institution without registration, is found   guilty
after a summary trial held before a magistrate shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees fifty thousand
or a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment
16
. If any person who engages in indigenous medical service without registration, is found guilty after
a summary trial held before a Magistrate shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees Twenty-Five
Thousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both the fine and imprisonment.
Registration of
those engaged
in Indigenous
Medical
Service.
Suspensions
and
cancellation of
these engaged
in indigenous
medical.
Making appeal
regarding
rejection of
registration.
Usage of words
“Siddha”
“Ayurveda”
Unani”
“Traditional
Medication” or
“Yoga system”
which comes
under
indigenous
medicine .
Qualifications
necessary for
registration
as a person
engaged in
indigenous
medical
service.
.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
17.  If any person who obstructs the duties of the officer engaged in the matters said in this statute or
contravenes the provisions mentioned in the statute is found guilty after a summary trial held before a
magistrate, shall be liable to a fine of not less than Rupees Five Thousand and not exceeding Rupees
Twenty-five thousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both fine and imprisonment.
18. If any person who contravenes the rules and regulations to made under this statute, is found guilty
after a summary trial before a magistrate, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees two hundred
thousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Part  V
PROVINCIAL  INDIGENOUS  MEDICAL  SERVICES  ADVISORY  BOARD
19.  Provincial indigenous medical services advisory board should be appointed by the Minister regarding
planning and implementation of provincial indigenous medical services.
20. (i) The provincial indigenous medical services advisory board (hereinafter referred to as Advisory
board) shall consist of the following members: -
(a) The Secretary
(b) The Commissioner
(c) The provincial Director of Health Services or his representative.
Further the following persons will be appointed as members: -
(d)  Seven doctors / indigenous medical practitioners, who are qualified and not in Government
Service, to be appointed by the Minister, to represent the five Districts of Jaffna, Kilinochchi,
Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Mannar. (Five siddha, one Unanai, one Ayurveda.)
(e) One high professional person appointed to represent social organizations.
(ii) The chairman of the advisory board will be appointed by minister in charge of the subject,
Commissioner will be its secretary.
(iii) (a) The term of office of the members of the advisory board, shall be two years.
(b) An appointed member shall hold office for two years from the date of appointment unless resigns
on own wish or death or removed from the post by minister - in – charge of subject or vacating the
post before the term of office and is eligible to be appointed again.
(c) In the event of an appointed member vacating office by death, resignation on own wish, removal
from post by Minister or otherwise, the Minister shall appoint another eligible member for the
balance term of such member.
Provincial
indigenous
medical services
advisory board.
Structure of
provincial
indigenous
medical
services
advisory board.

<!-- page 7 -->

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
7A
(i) A member, by addressing a letter to the minister, can resign from the post at any time.
(ii) The advisory board shall meet at least once in three months.
(iii) The quorum of the advisory board shall be four members.
21.  The tasks of the said advisory board shall be the submission of observations, recommendations and
suggestions in suitable manner, to the Minister – in – charge of the subject, regarding the matters referred
to the advisory board and submission of recommendations and proposals from time to time regarding the
activities of improvement of services of Provincial indigenous medicine department, development of health
state of the province.
                      Part VI
                         HOSPITAL  DEVELOPMENT  COMMITTEE
22. (i) The development Committees for the provincial indigenous Hospitals, Base Hospitals, District
Hospitals, coming under this statute (hereinafter referred to as “Committees” shall be appointed by the
secretary.
(ii) The composition of the hospital development Committee shall be as mentioned below.
(a) Divisional secretary or his representative of the division concerned.
(b) Director/ Medical superintendent/ Medical Officer-in-charge.
(c)Two representatives of the social level organizations of the area where the institution is situated.
(d) A registered indigenous doctors who is not attached to the relevant hospital, of the area.
(e) Two representations of the hospital staff.
(iii) The relevant representatives shall be appointed with the consent of the minister – in – charge of
 subject.
(iv) The person who is elected in the election of members and appointed shall be the secretary and
the Medical Officer – in – charge of the institution shall be the chairman of this committee as
ex-officio.
(v) (a) The term of office of this committee shall be two years.
The tasks of
the advisory
board.
Establishment
of Hospital
Development
Committee
and its
Composition

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
(b)  If the term of office of the members appointed with the consent of the minister - in -
charge of the subject, is vacated before the prescribed date for any reason, the
appointment of another person for the post so vacated, could be done with the consent of
the Minister – in - charge   of subject, subject to the provisions of such paragraphs. The
member so appointed can hold office only for the term of office unexpired of his
predecessor.
(c) The minister – in – charge of subject, has powers to remove an appointed member from
office, if there are any reasonable ground, any appointed member also can resign from the
post on his own wish.
(VI)  Members shall elect a person Chairman among them Chairman shall preside all meetings.
(VII) The secretary of the committee shall prepare the reports for the meetings.
(VII)  The quorum of the hospital committee shall be three.
(IX ) As secretary of the Committee, the secretary shall submit reports of the meeting to the Secretary
of the ministry and to the commissioner.
23. The activities of the hospital development Committee so established shall be in the manner as
mentioned below.
(I) Making co-ordination between institution concerned and general public.
(II) Performing institutional development and welfare activates.
(III) Contributing to the supply of qualitative service through the institution to the recipients
service.
24.  (I) The Development Committee shall meet at least once a month.
(i) A member of the committee or any person of the family including his/her spouse, cannot
enter into any contract with the indigenous hospital of the province.
(ii) The members of the hospital development Committee, when they perform their activity,
shall neither enter the hospital nor inspect the hospital without prior permission or shall not
use influence due to their membership of the committee.
Functions of
the Hospital
Development
Committee.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
9A
PART  VII
REGULATIONS
25. (I) The minister – in – charge of the subject may make the following rules.
(a) Provisions and Conditions for the registration of indigenous medical institution within
the Northern Province.
(b)Fixing the fees for the registration of Indigenous medical institutions within the Northern
Province.
(c) Provisions for the registration of any person as a person engaged in the indigenous
medical services.
(d)Records and forms which shall be used for registration as indigenous medical institution
a person doing indigenous medical service within Northern Province, and forms to be
used for prosecution in court.
(e) Any other matters necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this statute.
(II) All rules so made shall be published in the Gazette and be effective from the date of such
publication or from a later date specified therein.
(III) All provisions so imposed, shall be submitted to the provincial council for approval within
the period of three months after publishing same in the Gazette.
(IV) All rules which are not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, without prejudice to the matters previously done.
26. The duties, tasks and powers under this statute, shall be performed by the Commissioner subject to
the supervision, inspection and arrangements of the secretary.
27. In the event of inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this statute the Tamil
text shall prevail.
28. In this statute, unless other meanings are required,
“Province” means the Northern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of Northern Province.
“Governor” means the Governor of the Northern Province.
“Minister – in – charge of the subject” means the minister to whom the subject of indigenous
medicine of the provincial Council of the Northern Province, has been assigned.
“Secretary” means the secretary of Provincial Ministry – in – charge of subject of
indigenous medicine.
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of indigenous medicine appointed for Department of
Indigenous medicine of Northern Provincial Council.
Rules to be
made by the
Minister.
Responsibility
of the
Secretary.
 Tamil text to
prevail in the
event of an
inconsistency,
Interpretation.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018
“Indigenous Medicine ” means indigenous traditional medical system in Sri Lanka, Siddha,
Ayurveda, Unani, and Yoga system or alternative medical system with nature and whole theory
and corresponding treatment method or curing science health treatment method, which are accepted
by other foreign countries and internationally and maintained with the approval in Sri Lanka.
“Those engaged in indigenous Medical Services” mean indigenous doctors, Pharmacists,
instructors for Yoga system Attendants, Technologist and measures.
“Indigenous Medical practitioner”  means, a person who is engaged in practicing indigenous
traditional medicine in Sri Lanka, Ashtanga, Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Yoga system or alternative
medical system with nature and whole Theory and corresponding treatment method or curing
science health treatment method, which are accepted by other foreign countries and internationally
and maintained with the approval in Sri Lanka.
“Indigenous Medical Institutions” means Government and private indigenous medical hospitals,
Dispensaries, Central treatment centers, Indigenous medicine panchakarma centers, indigenous
medicine yoga system service centers and sales centers for marketing indigenous medicines and
instruments which are registered in indigenous medicine Department as shown under paragraphs
(1) and (2) of section 7 of this statue.
“Indigenous medicine production” means medicines, cosmetics, food items related to Siddha,
Ayurveda, Unani and traditional medicine.
04 – 709
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.