

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2533
2533
wxl 1"687 - 2010 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'12'31
No. 1,687 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 31, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... –
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2535
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 07th January, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th
December, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2534
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2535
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT
TO CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE ON THE BASIS OF MERIT
AND SENIORITY – 2010
A Competitive Examination to select eligible individuals based on
merit and seniority to fill the vacancies in Class III of the Sri Lanka
Education  Administrative Service coming under the Ministry of
Education, will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner General
of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary to the Ministry of
Education. Applications are called for this purpose in terms of the
notice that follows. Based on merit and seniority, the Secretary to
the Ministry of Education will make appointments in class III of
the Service not exceeding 30% of the vacancies.
02.  Date of Examination and Venue.– The examination will be
held in Colombo in the month of April, 2011. The Secretary to the
Ministry of Education reserves the rights to postpone or cancel the
examination.
03. The Number of Officers and the Effective Date of
Appointment.– The Secretary to the Ministry of Education will
determine the number of officers and the date of appointments.
The Secretary to the Ministry of Education reserves the rights to
fill or refrain from filling certain number of vacancies all the vacancies.
04. Conditions of Service and Conditions of Employment.
(i) The selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of
the service subject to the conditions of the Minute of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, approved by
the Cabinet of Ministers on 12.03.1986 and published in
the Extra ordinary Gazette No: 423/12 dated 15
th October
1986 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and the subsequent amendments made in the Minute and
to any amendment that may be made in the future and also
subject to the general conditions governing appointments
of the Public Service.
(ii) The officers appointed to the post should serve in any
part of the island depending on the requirements of the
Service.
(iii) This post in permanent and pensionable. The appointed
officers should contribute to widowers’ or orphans’
pension (W &OP). The appointment is subject to a
probationary period of one year.
05. Salary Scale .– Class III – Rs. 22,935 – 10x645 – 8x790 –
17x1050 – Rs. 53,555
1
st Efficiency Bar before Rs. 24,870
2nd Efficiency Bar before Rs. 26,805
06. Qualifications.– Subject to the provisions of the notes given
at the end of this section, an officer who is currently in the service
and has fulfilled the following requirements is qualified to sit for
the examination (Aptitude Test) for recruitment on the basis of
Merit and Seniority.
(i) A permanent officer of the Sri Lanka Principal Service
having minimum of 3years of service period in Class I.
(ii) 3 years service period is considered as at 31.01.2011.
(iii) All applicants should have accomplished a satisfactory
service period.
Note.– Only an officer who has duly obtained all the salary
increments in the    term of immediate five years before
31.01.2011 and who hasn’t subject to any penalty on
disciplinary grounds during that time (except advices) is
considered to be having satisfactory service period. Any
officer who is interdicted from service as at the closing
date of applications is not qualified  for applying for the
examination. The candidates are subject to the rules and
regulations that will be enacted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in respect of holding the
examination. If violated those rules, the candidates would
have to be subject to any of the punishment determined
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
07. Method of Application :
(i) The application should be prepared conforming to the
form set out at the end of this notice using both sides of
the paper.
(ii) The application should be completed in the medium in
which the applicant is qualified to sit for the examination,
but the section 01 and 02 of the application should be
filled in English block capitals.
(iii) Application forms should be submitted before 31.01.2011
to the relevant Zonal Director of Education / Provincial
Director of Education / Provincial Education Secretary
enabling to forward it to reach the Commissioner General
of Education on 31.01.2011 (As it is required to submit a
report by examining personal files of the applicants.)
(iv) Applications addressed to the personal names of officers
in the Ministry of Education, or Department of
Examinations will be rejected.
(v) The name of the examination mentioned at the top of the
application shall be mentioned in English in both Sinhala
and Tamil applications, in addition to Sinhala or  Tamil
applications, respectively. Applications which are not
complete in all respects will be rejected. No complaint on
applications lost or delayed in the post will be accepted.
(vi) The receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
Immediately after the issuance of admissions to the

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2536
applicants, the Department of Examinations will notify
it through newspapers.  It is important to be on alert
about these notices. Any applicant who does not receive
the admission after two or three days of press notification
should intimate it to the Department of Examinations of
Sri Lanka. It is advisable to send your request to the
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka while retaining
a copy of the same with you, enclosing a certified copy
of the application form and the receipt of the payment
made, the receipt of registration of the letter and a fax
number to send the admission, if the candidate resides
out of Colombo.
08.  Appearing for the Examination.
(a) The examination fee is Rs. 1000.  Examination fees should
be paid before the closing date for receiving applications
at any District or Divisional Secretariat to be credited to
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations.  The receipt obtained for the payment
from the District / Divisional Secretariat should be pasted
in the relevant cage of the application form.  For no reason
will these examination fees be refunded.  Nor is it
permissible to transfer the fee for another examination.
It is advisable to retain a copy of the receipt with you.
Note.- The fact that an admission card has been issued to
a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance
that the candidate has satisfied all the requirements to
appear for the examination.
(b) Identify of Candidates :
In regard to all the subjects for which a candidate appears,
identity of the candidate should be established in the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the head of the
examination hall.
(i)   National Identity Card ;
(ii)   A valid passport.
09. Penalties for providing incorrect information .– If it is
revealed that a candidate does not have the necessary qualifications,
the candidature can be cancelled when the examination is being
conducted, or after the examination or at any time.  If it is revealed
after appointment for the post that some information given is
incorrect or that any important fact has been deliberately withheld,
he/she would be dismissed from the service.
10. The final decision on any matter not mentioned in this Notice
will be the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Education.
11. Medium of Language :
(a) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages.
(b) A candidate should appear for the examination in the
exact language medium of examination / interview through
which qualification for the Public Service was obtained,
or in the official language.
(c) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
of language mentioned in the application form.
12. Method of selection. – Having tested basic qualifications in
accordance with the ranking of the total marks obtained on Seniority
and Aptitude Test the candidates will be selected for appointments.
Marks for Seniority 100 (Maximum)
Marks for Aptitude Test 50 (Maximum)
Total Marks 150
(i) Seniority:
Apart from the 3 year minimum service period essential
for applying for the post (as stated in section 7), rest of
the years of satisfactory service period will be taken
into consideration when giving marks. 8 marks will be
given for each year and 2 marks for 3 months for a
service period less than one year (100 Marks Maximum).
(ii) Aptitude Test:
This is one hour paper held by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The examination includes questions on
Fundamentals of Education and related activities on
utility expected form education and questions of having
and employing servants in order to obtain the maximum
advantage on behalf of organizations including schools
and Education Institutions.
13. The test for examining Qualifications :
(i) In accordance with the  ranking of total marks obtained
for Seniority and Aptitude Test, the required number of
candidates will be called for the test of examining
qualifications to fill the vacancies.
(ii) If by reason of a candidate not having satisfied the
stipulated requirements, Vacancies were to occur, they
will be filled form candidates next in the schedule
according to ranking of marks.
(iii) If more than one candidate has scored identical marks,
the Secretary to the Ministry of Education will make a
decision in this regard.
(iv) This is to examine appropriateness of applicants and no
marks will be given.
H M G
UNASEKERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Isurupaya, Battaramulla,
17th December, 2010.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2537
Specimen Application Form
(For office use only)
TO APPLY FOR APPOINTMENT TO CLASS III OF THE
SRI LANKA EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE ON THE BASIS OF MERIT
AND SENIORITY – 2010
Medium of language appearing for the examination
(Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
Sinhala -  2
Tamil -  3
English -  4
01. (i) Last name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
(ii) Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
(iii) Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
02. (i) Present working place and official address :––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
(ii) Personal Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
(iii) Address to which Admission Card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
03. (i) Gender :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Enter the relevant number in the cage)
(ii) Ethnic Group :
1 – Sinhala 2 – Tamil
3 – Indian Tamil 4 – Muslim
5 – Other
(Enter the relevant number in the cage)
(iii) National Identity Card No. :
04. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :     Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 31.01.2011 :
Years :      Months :   Days :
(iii) Married/Single  :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(Enter the relevant letter in the cage)
08. Details of Service :
(i) Date of first appointment and designation :––––––––.
(ii) Provincial Education Office/Zonal Education Office to
which you presently belong :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to Grade I of Principals' Service :
––––––––.
06. Educational qualifications :–––––––––.
07. Professional qualifications :–––––––––.
08. Details of training courses attended :–––––––––.
09. Details on any penalty (except warnings) received during
immediate five years before 31.01.2011 :–––––––––.
10. (i) Have you obtained all the salary increments during
immediate five years before 31.01.2011 :–––––––––.
(ii) If not why :–––––––––.
11. If any disciplinary inquiry is being conducted against you, its
present situation :–––––––––.
12. Details on no pay leave and half pay leaves taken within last
five years :–––––––––.
I hereby declare that the details provided in this application are
correct and in accordance with the given details. I am entitled to
consideration for romotion to the Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service on the basis of merit and seniority. Further, I do hereby
declare that I am abided by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the
examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education,
Having referred the personal file, I certify that the details of
service from section 06 to 12 are accurate. Further, I do hereby
certify that the receipt is affixed hereto having made a payment of
Rs. 1,000.
–––––––––––––,
Zonal/Provincial Director of Education/
Provincial Secretary of Education.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste the receipt for fees paid here
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
12–1015/1

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2538
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Class III (General / Special Cadre) of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service – 2010
AN Open Competitive Examination to fill vacancies in Class III of
the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, coming under the
Ministry of Education will be held, on its behalf, by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in Colombo.  Applications
will be called for this purpose in terms of the notice that follows.
Based on the results of the Open Competitive Examination, the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education will fill vacancies not
exceeding 25% in Class III of the service.
2. In this notice ‘Secretary’ refers to Secretary of the Ministry
of Education.  ‘Service’ refers to the Sri Lanka Education
Administrative Service.  The 'Minute’ refers to the Minute of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service.
3. Examination Procedure. -  This examination will be held in
two parts;
Part I and Part II
Part I
Part I will consist of two question papers as follows:
(i) Comprehension 100 marks - Time 1 1/2 hours (Subject
Code 01)
(ii) Intelligence test 100 marks - Time 1 hours (Subject
Code - 02)
All candidates should appear for this first part.  The first part of
the examination will be held in April 2011.  The Secretary of the
Ministry of Education reserves his rights to postpone or cancel the
examination.
Part II
Part II will consist of two question papers as follows:
(i) General Knowledge -150 marks -Question paper of 03 hours
(Subject Code - 03)
(ii) Essay  -100 marks -Question paper of 03 hours (Subject
Code - 04)
Only the candidates those who score at least 60% in each of the
question papers in Part I will be qualified to appear for Part II of
the Examination.  Those who qualify from part I will be informed
the date of Part II of the above Examination by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
4. Interview .-  The interview will be held only for the purpose
of examination of qualifications, certificates and to ascertain whether
the candidate is in a proper state of health.  No marks will be given
at the interview.  A number of candidates equal to the number of
vacancies that exist will be called for the interview based on the
ranking of marks scored at the written examination. At least 40% of
marks shall be obtained by candidates for each question paper in
order to pass the Part II of this examination.
5. Cadre and Date of Appointment:
(i) The Class III of the Service consists of ‘General’ and
‘Special’ Cadres. The number and the effective date of
appointments will be determined by the Secretary to the
Ministry of Education.
The Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves his
rights to fill or refrain from filling certain number of
vacancies or all the vacancies.
(ii) In addition to the General cadre, the candidates can also
apply for the vacancies in the fields of the special cadre
referred to in paragraph iii (b) below. A candidate can
apply for the General cadre and for another two fields
under the special cadre. If applying under the special
cadre, it is compulsory that the subject applied for have
been offered as one of the main subjects and at least 1/3
out of the total course units/credits offered for the degree
shall be relevant to the subject applied. The qualifications
required for planning and special education subjects are
given separately.
(iii) The subjects and the codes assigned to them are given
below. The subjects applied for and the relevant codes
shall be mentioned in the proper place in the application
form.
Code Number
(a) General Cadre 11
(b) Special Cadre
Subject area
English 21
Mathematics 22
Science 23
Art 24
Music (Eastern) 25
Music (Western) 26
Dancing 27
Agriculture 28
Commerce 29
Special Education 30
Planning 31
Arabic 32
Information Technology 33
N.B.– If it is applied for the subject of Special Education in the
special cadre under the Open Competitive Examination,
the candidate should have been successful in one of the
following Degrees or Post Graduate Diplomas.
The Degree in Bachelor of Education offered for the
education of children with deficiencies (Special
Education).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2539
Post Graduate Diploma in Special Education.
Master of Education or Master of Arts Degree in Special
Education.
If applied for the subject of Planning in the Special
cadre, the candidate should have obtained one of the
following Degrees or Post – Graduate Diplomas :
Should have studied Statistics as a subject of the Degree
or as an auxiliary subject area of another subject of the
Degree.
Should have studied Mathematics as a subject of the
Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Management and Planning
Techniques as a subject of the Degree or as an auxiliary
subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied the subject areas of Education
Principles and Comparative Education as a subject of
the Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Sociology as a subject of the
Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Statistics or Research Work as a
part of an auxiliary subject of the Degree along with
subjects of Biology and Physics.
Should have studied Cost Analysis, Statistical Methods
or Economic Research Methods as a Part of an auxiliary
subject of the Degree along with subjects of Costing
and Economic Principles.
(iv) In terms of the number of vacancies available, the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves the
rights to make or refrain from making appointments
for the aforesaid subject fields or certain subject fields.
6. Conditions of Service and Conditions of Employment :
(i) The selected candidates will be appointed to Class III of
the Service subject to the conditions of the Minute of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, approved
by the Cabinet of Ministers on 12.03.1986 and published
in the Extra Ordinary Gazette  No. 423/12 dated 15
th
October 1986 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and the subsequent amendments made therein and
to any amendment that may be made in the future and
also subject to the general conditions governing
appointments to the Public Service.
(ii) The officers appointed to the post should serve in any
part of the Island depending on the needs of the service.
(iii) This post is permanent and pensionable. The officers
appointed should contribute for the W. & O. P. The
appointment is subject to a probationary period of three
years.
(iv) It is compulsory that candidates selected under the
General cadre should, within their period of service, serve
a period of three years as a Principal of a 1AB /1C school.
7. Annual Salary Scale.– Rs. 22,935 – 10x645 – 8x790 – 17x1,050
– Rs. 53,555
1
st Efficiency Bar before Rs. 24,870
2nd Efficiency Bar before Rs. 26,805
8. Qualifications :
(a) Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be a Graduate of a recognized University.  Or else,
at least should have passed a professional or other
examination considered as equivalent to a Degree by the
Secretary to the Ministry of Education.
(c) Should be not less than 22 and not more than 30 years of
age as at 31.01.2011.
Note : A candidate will be considered as having passed a
degree, or a professional or other examination of the
required level, if
(i) The examination or examinations required to be
qualified has or have been successfully completed as
at 31.01.2011 and,
(ii) The official certificate in respect of the Degree,
professional or other examination or an official
document accepted by the Secretary to the Ministry
of Education in lieu thereof is presented at the
interview.
(iii) None is permitted to sit this examination more than
three times.
9. Other Qualifications.– Secretary to the Ministry of Education
should be satisfied that the candidate is in a good state of health and
that he bears an excellent character.  The candidate should  be in
good health with a good eye sight.  He should also be physically fit
to serve in any part of the country.  The selected candidate should
pass a medical examination.
10. Examination Fees :
Fees for the Examination are as follows:
Part I Rs. 600.
Examination fees should be paid before the date of closing for
the receipt of applications for the examination.  Payment can be
made at any District or Divisional Secretariat to be credited to
revenue head 2003- 02-13 of the Commissioner General of

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2540
Examinations.  The receipt obtained for the payment from the
District/Divisional Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant cage
of the application form.  For no reason will these examination fees
be refunded.  Nor is it permissible to transfer the fee for another
examination.  It is advisable to retain a copy of the receipt with
you.
Part II  Rs. 400
The manner in which the fees for Part II of the Examination
should be paid will be intimated to the candidates those who qualify
for this part by the Commissioner General of Examinations later
on.
11. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared conforming to
the form set out at the end of this notice, using both
sides of A4 size paper.  Section 1-4 should be on the
1
st page of the paper and from section 5 onwards
should be on the other side of the paper. The
application should be clearly filled in candidate’s hand
writing and the applications which do not comply
with the specimen application and which have not
been duly perfected will be rejected without any
notification. It is advisable to retain a photocopy of
the application with you.
(b) The completed application form should be forwarded
by Registered Post to reach the following address
before 31.01.2011 :–
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
The top left hand corner of the envelope in which the
application form is enclosed should carry the words
“Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service – 2010”. No application received after the
date of closing for the forwarding of applications will
be accepted.
(c) Sections 1:1 , 1:2 , 2:0 , 2:2 of the application form
should be filled in English block capitals.
(d) The application form should be completed in the
medium in which the applicant is qualified to sit the
examination. When preparing the application the title
of the examination should be in both Sinhala and
English languages in applications prepared in Sinhala
and in both Tamil and English in applications prepared
in Tamil.
(e) Applications not complete in all respects will be
rejected.  No complaint on loss or delay of applications
in the post will be accepted.
(f) The signature of the candidate in the application form
should be certified by a Principal of a Government
School, a Justice of Peace, a Lawyer or by a
Government Officer who receives an annual salary of
not less than  Rs. 128,160.
(g) Applications addressed to the personal names of
officers in the Ministry of Education or Department
of Examinations will be rejected.
(h) The receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
Immediately after the issuance of admissions to the
applicants, the Department of Examinations will
notify it through newspapers.  Any applicant who
does not receive the admission after two or three days
of press notification should intimate it to the
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka. It is
advisable to send your request to the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka while retaining a copy of
the same with you, enclosing a certified copy of the
application form and the receipt of the payment made,
the receipt of registration of the letter and a fax number
to send the admission, if the candidate resides out of
Colombo.
12. Appearing for the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admissions to all candidates who have sent
applications.  The candidate should appear in the
Examination Hall stipulated to him / her.  The attested
admission should be submitted to the head of the
examination hall.  No candidate who does not submit
the admission will be permitted to sit the examination.
The rules and regulations that candidates should follow
are given in the gazette notification. The candidates
are subject to adhere to the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations with regard to the conducting of
examination. If such rules and regulations are violated,
the candidates will have to be subjected to any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
Note.– The  fact that an admission card has been issued
to a candidate should not be regarded as an
acceptance that the candidate has satisfied all the
requirements to appear for the examination.
(b) Identity of Candidates.–   In regard to all the subjects
for which a candidate appears, identity of the candidate
should be established in the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the head of the examination hall.  For
this purpose the following will be accepted :–
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) A valid Passport.
13. Punishments for providing incorrect information. – If it is
revealed that a candidate does not have the necessary qualifications,

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2541
the candidature can be cancelled when the examination is being
conducted, or after the examination or at any time.  If it is revealed
after appointment for the post that some information given is
incorrect or that any important fact has been deliberately withheld,
he/she would be dismissed from the service.
14. The final decision on the matters not mentioned in this
notice is of the decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of
Education.
15. Medium of Language :
(a) The examination will be conducted in all three languages,
in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(b) A candidate should appear for the examination in the
language qualified for this service or in the official
language.
(c) If a candidate has offered subjects in two or more
languages in the examinations, he/she should sit the
examination in the language that the candidate has
qualified in most of the subjects passed or in the official
language.
(d) A candidate with a special degree who has passed the
main subject in one language and the auxiliary in another
language should sit the examination in the medium of the
main subject or in the official language.
(e) Each question paper should be answered in one language
only.
(f) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
mentioned in the application form, later.
Note.– The qualifying examination referred to in (a) and
(c) above is the examination referred to in Section
8(b).
16. Method of Selection :
(a) Selections for appointment will be made from those who
have appeared for both Parts I and II, and who have scored
the highest marks from the combined Parts I and II.  If
more than one candidate has scored identical marks, the
Secretary to the Ministry of Education will take a decision
in this regard.
(b) From those who have scored the highest marks in the
written examinations, the necessary number only for the
available vacancies will be summoned, on the basis of the
ranking of marks, for the interview for the examination of
qualifications.
(c) If by reason of a candidate or candidates not having satisfied
the stipulated requirements, vacancies were to occur, these
will be filled from candidates next in the schedule according
to the ranking of marks.
17. Syllabus :
Part I
(i) Comprehension.–  The candidate will be presented with a
few short texts.  In respect of certain texts, the candidate
will be given several alternative statements.  One of these
will accord quite well with the facts in the text. The candidate
will be instructed to select the most suitable statement.
Questions will be set to assess the way in which the
candidate understands the ideas contained in the texts.
This question paper consists of compulsory questions.
(ii) Intelligence Test.–  A question paper to assess the logical
ability of the candidate. This consists of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions which seek short answers.
Part II
(i) General Knowledge.–   This is a question paper designed
to assess the knowledge of the candidate about the
environment in which he lives and works including the
political, social, cultural and economic environment of Sri
Lanka.  Candidates should also be aware of the
contemporary events nationally and internationally as well
as the developments in Science and Technology.  The
question paper consists of structured essay type
questions. It is compulsory to answer all the questions.
(ii) Essay.– It is expected that three essays will be written on
three topics to be chosen from different topics.  These
topics will not be linked to any special field of study.  The
idea is to make an assessment of the candidate’s general
knowledge and intelligence, general thinking ability and
the ability to express ideas.  The quality of essays will be
determined by both, creative thinking on the topic and the
method of presentation of ideas.
H. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Battaramulla,
17th December, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
(For office use only)
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III
(GENERAL/ SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE
SRI LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2010
Medium of language appearing for the examination
(Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
Sinhala -  2
Tamil -  3
English -  4

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2542
Cadre appearing for the examination
                                (Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
General Cadre -  1
Special Cadre -  2
Both -  3
If cadre applied for is special cadre, indicate the code of the
subject area in the table given below (according to the Gazette
Notification)
Cadre Subject area Code
General
Special
Special
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials :
Mr./ Mrs./ Miss :––––––––––.
(Example :  Mr./ Mrs./ Miss  SILV A G .A.  (In English
block capitals)
1.2 Gender :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
1.3 Full name :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.4 Full name :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
1.5 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.2 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Ethnic Group :
1 – Sinhala 2 – Tamil
3 – Indian Tamil 4 – Muslim
5 – Other
(Enter the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Married / Single :
Single   - 1
Married   - 2
(Enter the relevant English letter in the cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :   Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 31.01.2011 :
Years :     Months : Days :
4.0 The medium of language in which the qualifying examination
for this post was passed :–––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications :
5.1 Date on which the degree or other qualification was
obtained :––––––––.
(Please read 8(b) of Gazette Notification carefully)
5.2 University/Institution :–––––––––.
5.3 Registration Number in university :–––––––––.
5.4 External/Internal :–––––––––.
5.5 Degree :–––––––––.
5.6 Subjects :–––––––––.
5.7 Class :–––––––––.
5.8 Upper/lower :–––––––––.
5.9 Examination Number :–––––––––.
5.10 Language medium of examination :–––––––––.
6.0 Whether you had appeared for the Open Competitive
Examination for recruitment to Class III in the Sri Lanka
Education Administrative Service held in the years 1991, 2002
and 2005.
7.0 Examination Fees :
Paste the receipt for fees paid here
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
8.0 I declare that the information given here is true to my knowledge
and belief and that the Receipt Number .............. dated ...........
is affixed to this document. I further agree to act according to
the rules and regulations governing examinations. I also agree to
a decision to cancel my candidature either before or during the
Examination if it is found that I am disqualified in terms of the
conditions applicable to it. I do hereby declare that I am abided
by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on conducting the examination. I am
aware that I am liable to be dismissed from the service if it is
found that I am disqualified, even after I am selected for this
post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Certification of the signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. residing at ......... who
has signed above is known to me personally and that he/she placed
the signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
12–1015/2

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2543
Art 24
Music (Eastern) 25
Music (Western) 26
Dancing 27
Physical education 28
Agriculture 29
Commerce 30
Handicraft 31
Home Science 32
Special Education 33
Planning 34
Arabic 35
Information Technology 36
Piriven 37
N.B.– If it is applied for the subject of Special Education in the
special cadre under the Limited Examination, the
candidate should have been successful in one of the
following Degrees or Post Graduate Diplomas.
The Degree in Bachelor of Education offered for the
education of children with deficiencies (Special
Education).
Post Graduate Diploma in Special Education.
Master of Education or Master of Arts Degree in Special
Education.
If applied for the subject of Planning in the Special
cadre, the candidate should have obtained one of the
following Degrees or Post – Graduate Diplomas :
Should have studied Statistics as a subject of the Degree
or as an auxiliary subject area of another subject of the
Degree.
Should have studied Mathematics as a subject of the
Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Management and Planning
Techniques as a subject of the Degree or as an auxiliary
subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied the subject areas of Education
Principles and Comparative Education as a subject of
the Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Sociology as a subject of the
Degree or as an auxiliary subject area of the Degree.
Should have studied Statistics or Research Work as a
part of an auxiliary subject of the Degree along with
subjects of Biology and Physics.
Should have studied Cost Analysis, Statistical Methods
or Economic Research Methods as a Part of an auxiliary
subject of the Degree along with subjects of Costing
and Economic Principles.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
Class III (General Cadre / Special Cadre) of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service – 2010
 IN this notice ‘Secretary’ refers to Secretary of the Ministry of
Education.  ‘Service’ refers to the Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service.  The 'Minute’ refers to the Minute of the Sri Lanka
Education Administrative Service.
A Limited Examination to fill vacancies in Class III of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service, coming under the Ministry
of Education will be held, on its behalf, by the Commissioner General
of Examinations in Colombo.  Applications will be called for this
purpose in terms of the notice that follows.  Based on the results of
the Limited Examination, the Secretary of the Ministry of Education
will fill vacancies not exceeding 45% in Class III of the service.
2. Date of Examination.– This examination will be held in April
2011.  The Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves the
rights to postpone this examination.
3. Cadre and Date of Appointment :
(i) The Class III of the Service consists of ‘General’ and
‘Special’ Cadres. The number and the effective date of
appointments will be determined by the Secretary to the
Ministry of Education.
The Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves his
rights to fill or refrain from filling certain number of
vacancies or all the vacancies.
(ii) In addition to the General cadre, the candidates can also
apply for the vacancies in the fields of the special cadre
referred to in paragraph iii (b) below. A candidate can
apply for the General cadre and for another two fields
under the special cadre. If applying under the special
cadre, it is compulsory that the subject applied for have
been offered as one of the main subjects and at least 1/3
out of the total course units/credits offered for the degree
shall be relevant to the subject applied. The qualifications
required for planning and special education subjects are
given separately.
(iii) The subjects and the codes assigned to the Special cadre
are given below. The subjects applied for and the relevant
codes shall be mentioned in the proper place in the
application form.
Code Number
(a) General Cadre 11
(b) Special Cadre
Subject area
English 21
Mathematics 22
Science 23
Code Number

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2544
(iv) In terms of the number of vacancies available, the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves the
rights to make or refrain from making appointments
for the General Cadre or aforesaid subject fields or of
certain subject fields.
4. Conditions of Service and Conditions of Employment :
(i) The selected candidates will be appointed to Class III of
the Service subject to the conditions of the Minute of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, published in
the Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 423/12 dated 15
th October
1986 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and the subsequent amendments made therein and to any
amendment that may be made in the future and also subject
to the general conditions governing appointments to the
Public Service.
(ii) Officers appointed to the service should serve, according
to the needs of the service, in posts of the Central
Government and in the Provincial Public Service.
(iii) During the time the officer is released to the Provincial
Public Service, he will come under the control and
disciplinary control of the Provincial Public Service
Commission. However, an officer has the right to appeal
to the Secretary to Ministry of Education against an order
of dismissal from the Service.
(iv) If a person who is appointed to the General Cadre has
not served as a Principal of a Government School for a
minimum period of 3 years prior to his appointment, he
should upon his appointment, serve a minimum period
of  3 years as a Principal of a Government School.  Where
the period served by a person is less than 3 years, the
period that he has to serve as a Principal shall be equal to
the difference between that period of service and 3 years.
(v) This post is permanent and pensionable. The officers
appointed should contribute for the W. & O. P. The
appointment is subject to a probationary period of one
year.
5. The Salary Scale : Rs. 22,935 – 10x645 – 8x790 – 17x1050 –
Rs. 53,555
1
st Efficiency Bar before Rs. 24,870
2nd Efficiency Bar before Rs. 26,805
6. Qualifications :
(a) Subject to the provisions of the notes at the end of this
section, a teacher in a Government School, in an assisted
school or a Pirivena who has the qualifications given
below is eligible to appear for this examination.
(b) As at the last date of the month  preceding  the month
in which the closing date of receiving applications falls,
the age of the applicant should not be less than 25
years or more than 45 years.
(c) (i) For Posts in the General Cadre
A Graduate teacher with at least 5 years of teaching
experience after obtaining the degree or a person
who has passed a professional or other examination
considered by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Education as equivalent to a degree/ a graduate with
the Trained Teachers Certificate or a person who
has passed a professional or other examination
considered by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Education as equivalent to a degree or     a trained
teacher with a minimum of 05 years of experience
as a teacher after the training or a trained teacher
with a service of 10 years as a teacher.
Note.–  (The period of service of graduate teachers
who were appointed to the teacher service on
the apprenticeship basis from the date of
appointment and the period of service of
teachers who have obtained the degree while in
service, from the date the degree was passed
will be taken into account for this 5 year service
period).
 (ii) For Posts in the Special Cadre .– A teacher with a
minimum of 3 years experience in teaching the
subject applied for and a degree with the specified
subject or a person who has passed a professional
or other examination considered by the Secretary
to the Ministry of Education as equivalent to a
degree.
Note : The following are also qualified to be
candidates for this examination :
Those with a service of not less than 05 years in
teaching subjects relevant to the fields of
Dancing and Eastern Music, Western Music,
Handicrafts, Physical Education, Art, Home
Science, Special Education, Pirivena and English
and a pass in the S.S.C or G .C.E. (O/L) in six
subjects including Mathematics or Arithmetic
and Sinhala/ Tamil in not more than two sittings.
7. Other Qualifications.– Secretary to the Ministry of Education
should be satisfied that the candidate is in a good state of health and
that he bears an excellent character.  The candidate should  be in
good health with a good eye sight.  He should also be physically fit
to serve in any part of the country.
N.B.  (i) The period of service of 03, 05 or 10 years as
referred to above should have been completed
by the closing date for receiving applications.
  (ii) No one will be permitted to sit the Limited
Competitive Examination on more than 07
occasions.  Further it will not be allowed to
take up both open and Limited Competitive
Examination on more than 07 occasions.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2545
 (iii) If an officer does not have a period of five years
of satisfactory service immediately preceding
the last date for receiving applications, he will
not be qualified to appear for the examination.
    (iv) A period of service will be considered
satisfactory if an officer has not received a
punishment other than a warning for any
offence.  (An officer is not disqualified if salary
increments could not be obtained only for not
being able to pass a service or departmental
examination).
  (v) An officer under interdiction as at the closing
date for receiving applications will not be
entitled to apply for this examination.
8. Examination Fees.–  The examination fee is Rs. 1,000.
Examination fees should be paid before the closing date for receiving
applications at any District or Divisional Secretariat to be credited
to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.  The receipt obtained for the payment from the
District / Divisional Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant
cage of the application form.  For no reason will these examination
fees be refunded.  Nor is it permissible to transfer the fee for
another examination.  It is advisable to retain a copy of the receipt
with you.
9. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared conforming to the
form set out at the end of this notice, using both sides of
8 ½" x 11" size paper.  Section 1-4 should be on the 1
st
page of the paper and rest should be on the other side of
the paper. The application should be clearly filled in
candidates hand writing and the applications which do
not comply with the specimen application and which
have not been duly perfected will be rejected without any
notification. It is advisable to retain a photocopy of the
application with you.
(b) The application form should be prepared in the language
in which the candidate is qualified to sit the examination.
Sub – Sections 1.1 , 1.2 , 2.1 , 2.2 , and 2.3 of the
application should be filled in English capital letters.
(c) The application form, completed according to the above
instructions should be forwarded by Registered Post
through the Zonal Director/ Provincial Director of
Education to reach the Commissioner General of
Examination,   (Organizations and Foreign Examinations),
Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla
before 31.01.2011.  An officer attached to the Provincial
Department of Education should forward the application
through the Provincial Director.  On the top left hand
corner of the envelop in which the application is enclosed
should be mentioned the words "Limited Competitive
Examination 2010 for Recruitment to Class III of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service".  No application
received after the closing date for the applications will be
accepted.
(d) Applications addressed to the personal names of officers
in the Ministry of Education or Department of
Examinations will be rejected.
(e) Applications not complete in all respects will be rejected.
No complaint on loss or delay of applications in the post
will be accepted.
(f) The receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
Immediately after the issuance of admissions to the
applicants, the Department of Examinations will notify
it through newspapers.  Any applicant who does not
receive the admission after two or three days of press
notification should intimate it to the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka. It is advisable to send your
request to the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka
while retaining a copy of the same with you, enclosing a
certified copy of the application form and the receipt of
the payment made, the receipt of registration of the letter
and a fax number to send the admission, if the candidate
resides out of Colombo
10. Appearing for the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admissions to all candidates who have sent applications.
The candidate should appear in the Examination Hall
stipulated to him / her.  The attested admission should be
submitted to the head of the examination hall.  No
candidate who does not submit the admission will be
permitted to sit the examination.  The rules and regulations
that candidates should follow are given in the Gazette
notification. The candidates are subject to adhere to the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations with regard to the conducting of
examination. If such rules and regulations are violated,
the candidates will have to be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination.
Note :  (a) The  fact that an admission card has been issued to
a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance
that the candidate has satisfied all the requirements
to appear for the examination.
(b) Identity of Candidates.–  In regard to all the subjects
for which a candidate appears, identity of the
candidate should be established in the examination
hall to the satisfaction of the head of the
examination hall.  For this purpose the following
will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card
(ii) A valid Passport
11. Punishments for providing incorrect information .– If it is
revealed that a candidate does not have the necessary qualifications,

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2546
the candidature can be cancelled when the examination is being
conducted, or after the examination or at any time.  If it is revealed
after appointment for the post that some information given is
incorrect or that any important fact has been deliberately withheld,
he/she would be dismissed from the service.
12. Medium of Language :
(a) The examination will be conducted in all three languages,
in Sinhala Tamil and English.
(b) A candidate should appear for the examination in the
medium of the examination through which he/ she entered
the public service/ the medium of the interview in which
he /she was successful or in the Official Language.
Note :  (i)  A candidate should answer all question papers in
the examination in one language.
(ii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the
medium of language mentioned in the application.
13. Method of Examination :
(a) A written examination consisting of question papers on
the following subjects and an interview for the purpose
of examining the qualifications.
(i) Comprehension - 100 marks - a question paper of
1 ½ hours   (Subject Code – 01)
(ii) Intelligence test - 100 marks - a question paper of
1 hour (Subject Code 02)
(iii) Case studies relating to Educational Administration
– 100 marks – a question paper of 2 hours – (Subject
Code -03)
14. Method of Selection :
(a) Selections for appointments will be made on the basis of
ranking of total marks scored (at least 40% per each
subject) at the written examination and after the
examination of qualifications for the post at an interview.
If more than one candidate has obtained the same marks,
the Secretary of the Ministry of Education will take a
decision.
(b) Should vacancies occur by reason of one or more
candidates summoned for the interview not having
fulfilled the specified requirements, they will be filled
through candidates next in the order of merit.
15. Syllabus  (Details) :
(i) Comprehension – Time 1 ½ hours
The candidate will be presented with a few short texts.
In respect of certain texts, the candidate will be given
several alternative statements.  One of these will accord
quite well with the facts in the text. The candidate will
be instructed to select the most suitable statement.
Questions will be set to assess the way in which the
candidate understands the ideas contained in the texts.
This question paper consists of compulsory questions.
(ii) Intelligence Text -  Time 1 hour
A question paper to assess the logical ability of the
candidate. This consists of 50 multiple choice questions
and questions which seek short answers.
(iii) Case studies on Education Administration – Time 2
hours.
The final decision on the matters not mentioned in
this notice is of the decision of the Secretary to the
Ministry of Education.
H. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Battaramulla,
17th December, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For office use only)
L
IMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III
(GENERAL CADRE/ SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE
SRI LANKA EDUCA TION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2010
(Forward two copies to the Zonal Director of Education)
Medium of language appearing for the examination
(Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
Sinhala -  2
Tamil -  3
English -  4
Cadre appearing for the examination
                                (Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
General Cadre -  1
Special Cadre -  2
Both -  3
If cadre applied for is special cadre, indicate the code of the
subject area in the table given below (according to the Gazette
Notification)
Cadre Subject area Code
General
Special
Special
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials :
Mr/ Mrs/ Miss :––––––––––.
(Example :  Mr./ Mrs./ Miss  SILV A G .A.  (In English
block capitals)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2547
1.2 Gender :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the appropriate number in the Cage)
1.3 Full name :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.4 Full name :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
1.5 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.1 Official Address :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Ethnic Group :
1 – Sinhala 2 – Tamil
3 – Indian Tamil 4 – Muslim
5 – Other
(Enter the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Married / Single :
Single   - 1
Married   - 2
(Enter the relevant English letter in the cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :   Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 31.01.2011 :
Years :     Months : Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
(a) (i) Year of passing the degree :––––––––––.
(ii) Subjects for the degree :––––––––––.
(iii) University/Institution :––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––.
(b) (i) Year of passing the post graduate degree :–––––––––.
(ii) Subjects for the degree :––––––––––.
(iii) University/Institution :––––––––––.
5.0 (i) Date of first appointment to the Public Service as a teacher
:––––––––––.
(ii) (Education Zone now serving) :––––––––––.
(iii) Period of service by 31.01.2011 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
6.0 The year in which training as a teacher was obtained :–––––.
Name of the Training College :––––––––––.
Date on which the training certificate becomes valid :––––––.
Special field of training :––––––––––.
Period of experience after training by 31.01.2011 :–––––––.
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
7.0 Are you confirmed in your present post ? :––––––––––.
8.0 The language in which the qualifying service for entry into the
public service was passed :––––––––––.
9.0 Examination Fees :
Paste the receipt for fees paid here
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
10.0 Number of times sit for this examination and the open
competitive examination earlier :––––––––––.
8.0 I declare that the information given here is true to my knowledge
and belief and that the Receipt Number .............. dated ...........
is affixed to this document. I further agree to act according to
the rules and regulations governing examinations. I also agree to
a decision to cancel my candidature either before or during the
Examination if it is found that I am disqualified in terms of the
conditions applicable to it. I do hereby declare that I am abided
by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on conducting the examination. I am
aware that I am liable to be dismissed from the service if it is
found that I am disqualified, even after I am selected for this
post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Certificate of the signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. residing at ......... who
has signed above is known to me personally and that he/she placed
the signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
12–1015/3

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2548
MINISTRY  OF  ENVIRONMENT
Forest Department
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF RANGE FOREST
OFFICER (TAMIL MEDIUM) IN TRAINING GRADE OF
THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2010
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
who have the required qualifications for the Post of Range Forest
Officer (Tamil medium) Training grade of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service in the Forest Department.
02. Salary Scale :
(i) Trainee Grade
MN : 1-2006 A - According to Public Administration
Circular 06/2006(IV) - Rs. 13,120 - 145 x 1 - Rs. 13,265.
(ii) Class II B
MN : 3-2006 A - According to Public Administration Circular
07/2008 - Rs. 15,005 - 180 x 4,240 x 6  Rs. 17,165.
03. Terms of employment and conditions of service :
(i) This appointment is permanent. Contributions should
be made to the Widow's and Orphan's Pension Fund.
(ii) This appointment will be on probation for a period of
three years.
(iii) Appointment will be made into the trainee grade.
(iv) Selected candidates should prepare to serve in any forest
area in any part of the island and should compulsorily
serve in Northern and Eastern Provinces at least for a
period of five years since recruitment.
(v) The conditions of the recruitment and promotion of
officers in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological
Services and the Conditions of the Recruitment and
Promotion Procedure (amended) of Range Forest
Officers are applicable.
(vi) General conditions relating to the Public Service
appointments indicated at the beginning of the Para
(IIA) of Part I of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka will apply.
(vii) The examination will be held only in Tamil Medium.
04. Age limit.– Not less than 18 Years and not more than 35 years
of age on the date of closing of applications. The upper age limit is
not applicable to those who are already in Public Service and
Provincial Government Service.
05. Education and other qualifications. – All applicants should
prove satisfactorily the following requirements :–
(i) Should have passed the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination in one sitting with three (03) subjects
including Biology or agriculture ; or
Should have passed the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination (Old Syllabus) in one sitting in three (03)
subjects including two of the following subjects :
Botany, Agriculture, Zoology ; and
(ii) Should have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in not more than two sittings in six (06)
subjects with four (04) credit passes including language
or Literature, Mathematics or Arithmetic's and Science.
(iii) Minimum height of 5 feet, 2 inches and 32 inches chest
for male applicants, 5 feet minimum height for female
applicants.
(iv) Should have a good moral character.
06. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Selection will be made after an interview which will be
held to those candidates who have scored highest marks
at the written examination and those who qualified the
items in Para 05 (No marks will be given at the
interview).
(ii) Applicants recruited as per para 06(i) will be placed in
the training grade. Upon the successful completion of
two years theory and practical training course at the
Sri Lanka Forestry Institute, they will be absorbed
into the class II-B of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(iii) Applicants those who have successfully completed
National Technical Certificate Coruse (three year part
time training course) upon the successful completion
of one year theory and practical training course at the
Sri Lanka Forestry Institute, they will be absorbed
into the Class II-B of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(iv) Applicants those who have successfully completed
two years Diploma in Agriculture in any accredited
government institution in Sri Lanka will be appointed
into the Class II-B of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(v) It is compulsory for all the applicants recruited under
Para 6. (I and IV) to complete a two year training
course successfully at the Sri Lanka Forestry Institute.
07. Written Examination.– Written examination will consist of
two question papers :
(i) Intelligence Test (Aptitude) one (01) hour - 100 marks.
The paper which is designed to assess the numerical
ability, logical ability, analytical competence and
decision making ability of the applicants will consist
of multiple choice questions and short anser questions.
(ii) Technical test - Two (02) hours - 100 marks. The paper
will consists of structured and semi-structured
questions to test the knowledge of the applicants in
the following subjects :–

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2549
Syllabus :
(a) Management and utilization of Forest Resources.
(b) Environment and geological importance of Sri Lanka.
(c) Agricultural economy of Sri Lanka.
(d) Important facts about Ministry of Environment and
Forest Department, their mission and objectives.
(e) Knowledge on forests resources and environment,
forests and flora.
(f) Close relationship between forest and community and
it's importance.
(g) Basic Botany and Geography.
(h) General knowledge.
08. Mode of applications and other Information :
(i) The specimen form given at the end of the notification
should be prepared by applicant using a paper of
21 x 29 cm. (A4 size) should be sent by registered post
addressed to the commissioner general of examinaiton,
Organizational and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examination, Pelawatte, Battaramulla
on or before 15.02.2011 (Applications should not be
sent to any individual address or any other address)
"recruitment to the post of Range Forest Officer - (Tamil
medium)  - 2010 should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope.
(ii) The incomplete or late applications will be rejected
without any notice.
(iii) Loss of applications during the post will not be
considered.
(iv) Signature of the applicants should be attested by one
of the following officials. Principal of a Government
school or justice of peace or commissioned officer in
the Army, Navy, Air Force or Police Service or
permanent staff officer of national or Provincial
Government service or the Grama Niladhari officer of
the Grama Niladhari Division where the applicant
resides.
(v) The application not in conformity to the conditions
mentioned in this notification will be rejected.
(vi) Applicants who are already in national or Provincial
Government Service should forward their applications
through the respective head of their institution and an
endorsement is necessary to indicate that the head of
the institution agrees to release the applicant if selected
for the post.
(vii) The receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
09. Examination Fees :
(i) Examination fee is Rs. 300. This amount should be
paid at the nearest Divisional Secretariat/District
Secretariat and shall be credited in favour of the "General
Deposit" of "Conservator General of Forests". The
receipt should be passted to the application where
indicated (it is advisable for the applicant to keep a
photocopy of the receipt).
(ii) Examination fee is not to refundable and would not be
transferable as a fee for any other examination.
10. Candidate should produce all or any one of the following
document any time when called :
(i) Birth certificate,
(ii) Educational certificates,
(iii) Grama Niladhari certificate obtaiend recently should
certified by Divisional Secretary.,
(iv) Two character certificates,
(v) Any other relevant certificates.
Please note.– Dcouments or copies of the documents should
not to attached to the application.
11. (i) The examination will be held only in following cities :–
1. Colombo 8. Ampara
2. Kandy 9. Batticaloa
3. Matara 10. Trincomalee
4. Kurunegala 11. V avuniya
5. Ratnapura 12. Jaffna
6. Anuradhapura 13. Kilinochchi
7. Badulla 14. Mulative
(i) If not adequate number of applications are received for
any of the above centers, the applicants will be referred
to the nearest city.
(ii) An admissions card indicating the date, time and venue
of the examination will be posted 07 days before the
examination. Traveling expenses or any other expenses
will not be paid for this purpose to the applicants. It
should be noted that, issuing of an admission card should
not be considered as a qualification for the recruitment
of the post.
12. Identity of the Candidate.– The applicant should prove his/
her identify to the satisfaction of the examiners. Anyone of the
following documents will be accepted for this purpose :–
(i) A National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
of the Department of Registration of persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
(iii) A 
valid driving license.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2550
13. Penalty for providing false information .– If the applicant
found to be not qualified, his/her application for the examination will
be cancelled any itme. Any information furnished by an applicant to
his/her knowledge is found to be incorrect or if he/she has purposely
changed an important fact he/she will be liable for dismissal from the
Government Service after his/her selection.
14. Particulars not mentioned in this notification will be attended
according to the decision of Conservator General of Forests.
Conservator General of Forests.
Forest Department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
15th December, 2010.
T
HE FOREST DEPARTMENT
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF TRAINEE RANGE FOREST OFFICER
(TAMIL -MEDIUM) - 2010
City No. :––––––––––.
City :––––––––––.
(please see para II of the notification)
01. (i) Name of the applicant with initials :––––––––––.
(in English)
(ii) Full name (in English) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent address (in English) :––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Please write the relevant Number in the Box)
04. Medium through which the applicant intended to be appeared
for the examination :
Tamil - T
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
05. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By decent - 1
By registration - 2
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
06. Date of birth :
Age on 31.12.2010 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :
08. Physical requirements :
Height ............. feet. ................. inches
* Chest ................. inches
* Not relevant for female applicants
09. Educational qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
1st attempt
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
2nd attempt
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
(ii) G. C. E. (Advance level) :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
10. Additional educational qualifications :––––––––––.
11. Professional/other qualifications :––––––––––.
12. (i) The Divisional Secretariat/District Secretariat to which
the examination fee was paid :––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :––––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt so as not to be detachable
13. (i) Have you ever been convicted for any offence by a Court
of Law ? Yes/No :––––––––––.
(ii) If yes, give details :––––––––––.
14. If you are already employed, give details :
Institute :––––––––––. Post :––––––––––.
Date of 1st appointment :––––––––––.
Salary :––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2551
15. Names and address of two non related refrees :
(with telephone No.)
(i) ––––––––––––––
(ii) ––––––––––––––
16. Declaration by the applicant :
I hereby declare that the information furnished in this application
are true and accurate. I am aware that if any information herein is
found to be false or inaccurate before my selection, I will be liable for
disqualification and dismissal with out compensation, if found to be
subsequent to the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
17. Attestment of the applicant's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Ms. ...................... is known to me
personally and he/she placed his/her signature in this application in
my presence on .............. 2011.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name of the Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
18. This part should be completed by the head of the Institution if
the applicant is an employee of the National or Provincial
Government Service.
I hereby certify that applicant. Mr./Ms. ....................... who hold
the post of ................. is a permanent/temporary employee of this
Ministry/Department and particulars furnished by him/her are true
and correct. If he/she is selected for this post, he/she could be released/
could not be released from the present post.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department or
Authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––. (frank should be placed)
Date :––––––––––.
(please delete the unnecessary words)
Please Note.– No other document other than receipt of the exam
fees should be attached to the application.
12–1014
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
GOVERNMENT  LIBRARIANS'  SERVICE – 2010(2011)
ACCORDING to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 1,620/22
dated 24.09.2009, applications are hereby called from the qualified
citizens of Sri Lanka for a Limited competitive examination held in
Colombo on April, 2011 for recrutiment to posts in Class III of
Sri Lanka Government Librarians' Service.
2.0 The candidates who have satisfied qualifications based on the
merit on the results of this examination will be selected for
appointment to the posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service. The number and the effective date of appointments
shall be determined by the appointing authority. The appointing
authority shall reserve the right not to fill all or certain number of
vacancies.
3.0 Salary.– According to the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, salary code applicable to class III
of Sri Lanka Government Librarians' Service is MN 3-2006A and the
monthly salary scale is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 -
20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
Note.– Incremental benefits shall be granted subject to the
rules and regulations applied for salary increments
implemented at the time of appointment.
4.0 Service conditions :
(i) An officer appointed to the class III of Sri Lanka Librarians'
Service on the results of the Limited Competitive
Examination shall be subjected to a period of acting of one
year. Such officer shall be confirmed in the post by the
Director General of Combined Services on the confirmation
made by the Head of Department to the effect that his/her
work, conduct and attendance are satisfactory.
(ii) An officer appointed on the results of this examination
shall be subjected to be appointed or transferred to any
area of Sri Lanka.
(iii) The officer is required to obtain the proficiency in Second
Language before the lapse of 05 years from the date of
appointment as per the Public Administration Circular
No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
5.0 Qualifications.– Candidates are requierd to possess following
qualifications for sitting this examination :–
(a) Shall have completed an active service of 10 years in a
post of Library Assistants/Library Attendant and being
confirmed in the same post. Also the officer shall have
completed a satisfactory service of five years immediately
preceding the closing date of applications. (Maximum age
limit will not be applicable in this respect) ; and

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2552
(b) (i) Shall have successfully passed the first year of the
three year diploma in library science from a recognized
university ; or
(ii) Shall have successfully completed the first year of the
three year diploma in library science from Sri Lanka
Library Association.
Note :
(i) It is compulsory to satisfy all these qualifications on
or before 31.01.2011.
(ii) Those who have satisfied requirements indicated in
(a), (b) below as per the para 5.0 (a) above shall be
treated as having become qualified to apply for the
examination.
(a) Shall have earned all the salary incremens falling
within the 05 years immediately preceding
31.01.2011.
(b) Shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment within 05 years immediately preceding
31.01.2011. (Except warning).
6.0 Scheme of Examination .– This examination will consist of
three question papers. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media and the candidates will not be allowed to change
the medium of examination selected by them.
Subjects Marks Duration
(i) Library Science 100 03 hours
(ii) Intelligence Test 100 01 hour
(iii) General Knowledge 100 01 hour
The syllabus prescribed for the aobve subjects.
6.1 Library science :
1.  Libraries and Librarianship :
(a) Libraries and history of libraries,
(b) Role of the members of libraries,
(c) Origin and evolution of the books, various documents
and non printed media,
(d) Associations of professionals in the field :
(i) Sri Lanka Library Association,
(ii) American and British Library Associations.
(e) Types of libraries :
(i) School and other educational institution libraries,
(ii) Libraries in the Ministries and Departments,
(iii) Public Libraries.
(f) Library committees,
(g) Conservation and preservation.
2. Organization of Information and knowledge :
(a) Objectives and benefits of book classification,
(b) Main features in book classification,
(c) Dewey decimal classification,
(d) Cataloguing and objectives of cataloguing,
(e) Anglo-American Cataloging Rules - 2 (AACR),
(f) Bibliographical description,
(g) Types of catalogues.
3. Library resources and information services :
(a) Various library resources,
(b) Selection of library recourses and the selection
process,
(c) Acquisition and its process,
(d) Processing,
(e) Stock vertification and disposal process.
4. Information Communication Technology :
(a) Effects of the computer technology on library services.
6.2 Intelligence Test.– This paper will be designed to assess
the candidate's capacity for comprehension, quantification
and perception of time-space relations by measuring
candidate's inference and responses to problems presented
in verbal, numerical and spatial context.
6.3 General Knowledge.– This paper will be designed to assess
the candidates' awareness and understanding of social,
cultural, educational, political, economical and any other
relating factors operating at national, regional and global
environment or organizations as well as our society and
also to assess general knowledge of candidates in Library
Science and library field.
(Question papers for intelligence test and general
knowledge shall be prepared in relation to field III under
recruitment examintion classification of the Department
of Examinations.)
Candidates should score a minimum of 40% marks for
each paper to become qualified for an appointment.
Appointments will be made strictly following the order
of merit so as to fill the number of vacancies reserved for
limited competitive examination.
7.0 Examination fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 400. This fee can
be paid to any divisional or District Secretariat under the head 2003-
02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application so
as not to be detached. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt for future reference). Under no circumstances the examination
fee will be refunded and money orders and stamps are accepted.
8.0 Applications .– Applications should be prepared in the
following manner using a paper of size A4 (21x29cm) (normal half
sheets) :
(a) Cages from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the
page.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2553
(b) Cages from 4 onwards should appear on the other pages
using both sides of a paper and the application should be
filled in the same language candidate expects to sit for the
exam.
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen
should be indicated in English language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
8.1 Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in
accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without
any notice. Applications of those who haven't paid
examination fee on or before due date will also be rejected.
Candidates should be responsible for any loss incurred
by them due to incomplete applications. It would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/
herself complies with the specimen given in the
examination notice as otherwise the application may be
rejected.
8.2 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees
and forwarded their applications on or before the
prescribed date will be allowed to sit the competitive
examination, by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, on the presumption that only those who
possess qualifications as indicated in the gazette
notification have forwarded their applications. Issue of
an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive
examination does not mean to have accepted that she/he
possesses all the qualifications for this post. If it was
found at the interview that the applicant does not possess
the required qualifications his or her candidature will be
cancelled.
8.3 The words "Limited Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service – 2010(2011)" should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed.
9.0 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address on or before 31.01.2011 and the
candidates are requested to submit their applications through Heads
of Department within a sufficient period :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
10. Sitting the examination.– A notification will be published in
news papers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the folowing in hand at
the time of calling the Department of Examinations. i. e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax Number to which the
Aadmission card should be sent.
11. If the candidate is selected for an appointment, the Head of
Department shall agree to release the officer. For that purpose the
Head of Department shall issue a certificate attached at the end of
the application. Further, Heads of Departments shall approve duty
leave to candidates who have been issued admission cards for the
examination. However travelling expenses shall not be paid.
12. Candidates should furnish one of the following documents to
the supervisor of the examination in support of their identity :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
13. Penalty for furnishing false information.– The candidate should
be very careful to include correct particulars in the application. If it
is found that any candidate is not eligible according to the rules and
regulations of this examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled
at any time before during or after the examination. Further, if it is
found that any information furnished by a candidate is false, he/she
is liable to dismissal at any time from the public service.
14. Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
15. This examination notification will be published in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages and in case of any inconsistency among
texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not referred to herein
will be decided by the Director General of Combined Services.
B. P . P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
14th of December, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF SRI LANKA
GOVERNMENT LIBRARIANS' SERVICE – 2010(2011)
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2554
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
Eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution (in
English block capitals) :–––––––––.
2.2 Name and address of office/department/institution (in
Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be send (in
English block capitals) :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 2
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Date :         Month :         Year :
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
4.0 Particulars of the service :
4.1 Name of the Department where the candidate serves at
present :–––––––––.
4.2 Designation of the present post :–––––––––.
4.3 Date of appointment to the present post :–––––––––.
4.4 Whether you have been confirmed in the present post :
–––––––––.
4.5 If confirmed the date of eligibility for confirmation :––––.
4.6 Reference No. and date of the letter of confirmation in the
present post :–––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications :–––––––––.
Particulars of three year Diploma course of which the first year
has been passed by the candidate to be eligible to sit this
examination as per Para 5.0(b) of the examination
notification.
(i) University/Institute :–––––––––.
(ii) Diploma :–––––––––.
(iii) Year in which the candidate passed the first year of the
course :–––––––––.
6.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment made :–––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––.
(iii) Amount :–––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7.0 Candidate's certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to suffer any loss that may be caused as
a result of any information not being completed and/or any
information erroneously being included here. I also state
that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found
to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment
and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected
after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose of
holding this examination.
(d) I do not change any information mentioned herein later.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
A
TTESTATION OF APPLICANT'S SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... who submits
this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on .................. and further the officer
has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the
application.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
C
ERTIFICATION BY THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
1. Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ the candidate, is presently
employed in this department.
2. He/She has been confirmed in the post of Library Assistant/
Library Attendant and has completed to 10 years of active
period of service on or before 31.01.2011.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'12'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.12.2010
2555
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
3. A letter has been issued confirming in the post of Library
Assistant/Library attendant.
4. He/She has completed at least a five years of satisfactory
period of continuous service on or before 31.01.2011.
5. He/She has not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment within the period of five years immediately
proceeding 31.01.2011 and his/her work and conduct are
satisfactory.
6. He/She has earned all the salary increments falling within
the five years immediately preceding 31.01.2011.
7. He/She can be released from the present post if selected for
a post on the result of the examination.
8. The particulars indicated in his/her application have been
compared with the documents of the department and found
to be correct and further he/she is eligible to sit the examination
according to the regulations of the examination notification.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department and official stamp.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
Note :
1. The signature should be certified only by the Head of the
Department or an authorized staff officer. the officer, who
certifies, should be satisfied each and every way with the
accuracy of information provided.
2. Those who do not meet the eligibility criteria should not
submit applications to the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
12–1117