

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
DEFENCE SERVICES COMMAND AND
STAFF COLLEGE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 13 OF 2012
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on  04th May, 2012]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 04, 2012

<!-- page 2 -->

1Defence Services Command and Staff
College (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2012
2—PL 006293—4,090  (10/2011)
[Certified on 04th May, 2012]
L.D.—O. 41/2010.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE DEFENCE SERVICES COMMAND AND
STAFF COLLEGE ACT, NO. 5 OF 2008
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Defence Services
Command and Staff College (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of
2012.
2. Section 17 of the Defence Services Command and
Staff College Act, No. 5 of 2008 (hereinafter referred to as
the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of subsections (3) and (4) of that
section;
(2) by the re-numbering of subsections (5) and (6) as
subsections (3) and (4); and
(3) by the substitution for the marginal note to that
section of the following:—
“Code of Discipline and its application.”.
3. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 17 of the principal enactment and shall have
effect as section 17
A of that enactment:—
17A. (1) The disciplinary control of the
permanent staff of the Staff College shall be
exercised by the Commandant of the Staff
College or any other officer of the Staff College
authorized in that behalf by the Commandant.
(2) The disciplinary control of the civilian
staff of the Staff College shall be exercised by
Short title.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
Act, No. 5 of
2008.
Insertion of new
section 17
A in
the principal
enactment.
“Disciplinary
control of the
permanent
staff and
civilian staff
of the Staff
College.

<!-- page 3 -->

Defence Services Command and Staff
College (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2012
2
the Commandant of the Staff College, in
accordance with the procedure to be specified
by rules made by the Board.
(3) There shall be a Civil Administrative
Officer who shall be appointed in accordance
with such procedures as shall be applicable to
appointments in the public service. The
appointment of such person shall be for a period
of five years. The Civil Administrative Officer
shall be responsible to the Commandant for
the due administration of the civilian staff.”.
4. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection:—
 “(2) The Board shall appoint a qualified auditor who
shall be a person belonging to the Accountants Service
of Sri Lanka and shall be responsible to the Commandant
for the audit of accounts of the Staff College. The
provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to
the audit of accounts of public corporations shall apply
to the audit of accounts of the Staff College.”.
5. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following subsection:—
 “(2) The Accountant of the Staff College shall be
appointed by the Board and such Accountant shall
belong to the Accountants Service of Sri Lanka. The
Accountant shall be responsible to the Commandant
for the preparation of estimates and of all financial
matters relating to the administration of the Staff
College.”.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Defence Services Command and Staff
College (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2012
6. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 25, of the principal enactment and shall have
effect as section 25A of that enactment:—
 25A. (1) At the request of the Board, any
officer in the public service may with the
consent of that officer and the Chairman of the
Public Service Commission, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Staff College for
such period as may be determined by the
Council, or with like consent, be permanently
appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in public service is
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Staff
College, the provisions of subsection (2) of
section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall mutatis
mutandis  apply to, and in relation to such
officer.
(3) Where any officer in public service is
permanently appointed to the staff of the Staff
College, the provisions of subsection (3) of
section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis
mutandis  apply to, and in relation to such
officer.
(4) Where Staff College employs an person
who has entered into a contract with the
Government by which he has agreed to serve
the Government for a specific period, any
period of service to the Staff College by that
person shall be regarded as service to the
Government for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of that person under such contract.
Insertion of
section 25 A in
the principal
enactment.
“Appointment
of Public
Officers to
the civilian
staff of the
Staff College.

<!-- page 5 -->

Defence Services Command and Staff
College (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2012
4
(5) At the request of the Board, a member of
the Local Government Service or any officer
of any Local Authority may with the consent
of that member, officer or employee be
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Staff
College for such period as may be determined
by the Staff College, or with like consent be
permanently appointed to such staff on such
terms and conditions including those relating
to pension or provident fund rights as may be
agreed upon by the Staff College and the Local
Government Service Advisory Board or the
Local Authority, as the case may be.
(6) Where a person is temporarily appointed
to the staff on the Staff College under subsection
(5) of this section, that person shall be subject
to the same disciplinary control as any other
member of the staff.”.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Defence Services Command and Staff
College (Amendment) Act, No. 13 of 2012
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .