

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  29.10.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2251$64 - 2021 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2021¡10¡29
No.  2251/64  -  FriDAy,    october  29,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G  35225— 370 (10/2021)
ORDER   BY   HIS   EXCELLENCY    THE   PRESIDENT      
Essential Public Services Act. No. 61 of 1979
 Seal Gotabaya Rajapaksa. 
i, Gotabaya rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, in accordance with the powers vested 
in me by Section 2 of the essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979, hereby declare the services provided by any Public 
corporation or Government Department or Local Authority or co-operative Society or any of their branches engaged in 
providing the services mentioned in the given Schedule as essential services for the operation of aforesaid section while 
considering that the services provided by any Public corporation, Government Department, Local Authority, co-operative 
Society or State bank or any of its branches with respect to services mentioned in the Schedule below are essential for the 
conduct of ordinary public life and considering the possibility of any hindrances or disruptions in the provision of such 
services and as well as taking into account the facts mentioned in the guidelines issued by the Director General of Health 
Services on coViD-19 prevention.
 Given at colombo on the 29 day of october, two thousand and twenty one.
        
                      by order of His excellency the President,
       
 P. B. Jayasundera,  
 Secretary to the President.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  29.10.2021
2A
ScHeDuLe
 1. All services, works or labour of any description carried out or required to be carried out by or in connection with 
the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by the Section 3 of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979.
 2. The supply and distribution of all fuels, including petroleum products and liquefied gas.
 3. All services, works, labour of any description whatsoever, necessary or required to be carried out in connection with 
the discharge, carriage, landing, storage, delivery and removal of oil or fuel from vessels within any port, as defined 
as such,for the purposes of the customs ordinance.
 4. Freight transport by Sri Lanka railway Department and all public transport services carried out by the Sri Lanka 
transport board for passenger transport.
 5. Maintenance, security and operational aspects that are essential to carry out such public services in line with service 
requirements.
 6. All type of services, works, or labour contributions which should be carried out or required to be carried out by 
District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Grama Seva Officers, Samurdhi Development Officers, Agricultural 
Research Assistants including all field level officers of all District and Divisional Secretariats.
 7. All state banking and insurance services including the central bank of Sri Lanka.
 8. Waste management services carried out by the Local Authorities.
 9. All services, works or labour of any description necessary or required to be carried out in connection with supply, 
storage and distribution activities of food, beverages including all other essential consumable items to public 
which performed by Lanka Sathosa Ltd, co-operative Wholesale establishment, Food commissioner Department, 
Department of cooperative Development, cooperative Societies & Paddy Marketing board, ceylon Sugar (Pvt.) 
Ltd.
 10. All services, work or labour of any description to be performed by or required by all government offices under the 
Provincial councils.
 11. All Services, works or labour of any description to be performed or required by in connection with health services.
 12. Acceptance and delivery of local and foreign letters, printed materials and parcels, provisions of postal related 
information, registered letters cash on delivery (coD), local and foreign express Mail Service (speed post/eMS), 
special services of delivery of pharmaceuticals and money transactions and all other activities relating to the postal 
services in operation under the Postal Department.    
11 - 263
PriNteD At tHe DePArtMeNt oF GoVerNMeNt PriNtiNG,  Sri LANKA.