

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2563
2563
wxl 1"791 - 2012 foieïn¾ 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'12'28
No. 1,791 – FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2565
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th January, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
January, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
14th December, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,790 of 21.12.2012 was not published.
The list of Jurors and Special Jurors in Galle and Balapitiya Judicial Zones - 2012 have been published in Part VI of this Gazette
in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2564
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Sta ndard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2565
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS II GRADE "b" OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Sri Lanka Technological Service
Competitive Examination to recruit for the post of Research Assistant
in Class II"b" of the Department of Animal Production and Health.
02. Examination.– The examination will be held in February 2013
in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and Health.
The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be with the
Director General.
03. Condition of the Service .– Recruitment, will be made for
Class II"b" of the Research Assistant's Service subject to the general
conditions of the Public Service and the following conditions governing
the appointments of the Public Service.
(i) The selected officers is subject to the conditions of serving
any part of the Island.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphan' Pension Fund.
(iii) The Officers, who are recruited under the Open
Competitive Examination will be on probation for a period
of 3 years. If a Public Officer already confirmed in a
permanent post in the Public Service is appointed, he will
be kept under the acting period for a period of one year.
The Officers who are appointed by the Open Competitive
Examination should pass the relevant 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination before confirm in the post.
(iv) All the Officers who have recruited for the public service
should obtain the proficiency in an official language in
addition to the official language medium in which they
gained qualifications to enter the Public Service within 05
years from the date of appointment.
(v) The selected Officer is subjected to the orders of the Public
Service Commission provisions of the Establishment Code,
financial regulations and conditions and regulations issued
by the Government from time to time and the regulations
of the Ministry and Department.
04. Salary Scale.–  MN-3-2006A Research Assistants' Service
Class II"b" - Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180- 6x240 -11x320 - 20x360 -
Rs. 27,885. (Monthly as per Public Administration Circular
07/2008) The salary scale for this Grade is Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 -
6x240 -Rs. 17,165. The Officers in this Grade II"b" should pass the
1st Efficiency Bar Examination before the 3rd increment.
5. Age limit :
(i) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years at the closing date of the application. This maximum
age limit does not apply for the Officers who are already
in the Public Serivce.
06. Educational and Professional Qualification :
06.1 Educational Qualification :
(i) G . C. E./(A.L.)
G . C. E. (A.L.) in three Science subjects including
two subjects from Chemistry, Agriculture and
Biology and pass the examination in one and the
same sitting ;
and
(ii) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Should have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
examination in not more than two sittings in 06
subjects with credit passes for language or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and one other subject ;
or
Pass in any other examination equivalent to it.
06.2 Professional qualification :
Should has obtained the Diploma in Animal Husbandry
from Sri Lanka College of Animal Husbandry (Should
have obtained the relevant certificate by the closing date
of the applications).
Should have obtained the other technical qualifications
recognized by the Sri Lanka Technological Service Beuro
which are similar to the above technical qualifications on
every hand subsequently obtaining the views and opinions
of the Ministry of Higher Education and the above
institutes which issued the above technical certificates.
06.3 Other qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be physically fit.
The required qualifications and the age limit should be
fulfilled in every aspect by the date indicated in the
gazette notice.
07. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications should sit for the open competitive

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2566
examination conducted by the Department of Animal Production
and Health.
The candidates who have scored 40% or more marks for each
paper prescribed for the open competitive examination will be called
for a viva voce on merit (of the aggregate) basis. No marks will be
given for the interview and recruitment will be made on the basis of
the order of the aggregate obtained at the examination by the
Candidates who have fulfilled the necessary qualifications.
08. Examination :
(i) Medium of examination will be in Sinhala/Tamil and
English.
(ii) Candidate can select the medium of the examination.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the medium applied
at the examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 400. The money order drawn
in favour of the Director General, Animal production
and Health encashable at the post office, Peradeniya
should be affixed to the relevant cage in the application.
(v) Subjects - The examination will be comprised with two
question papers.
(i) Intelligence Test.
(ii) Question paper in Technology.
(vi) Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Text - time 01 hour - 100 marks.
This question paper is designed to examine the logical
reasoning analytical thinking and the ability to take
decisions.
(b) Question paper in Technology - Time 01 hour - 100
marks.
This includes the subjects given below :
(i) Identification and maintenance of laboratory equipment.
(ii) The tests used for diagnosis.
Pathology
Parasitology
Microbiology
Serology
Nutrition
(iii) The tests used for Animal Husbandry
Physical tests
Chemical tests
Sensitive tests
(iv) Cleanliness of the laboratory, sterilization.
(v) Obtaining samples, storing and transport.
09. Method of Application :
(i) The application should be prepared in accordance with
the specimen application form attached to this
notification. Application should be prepared on paper
8 1/2 x 12 (A4) using both sides of it.
The application should be sent under registered cover to
reach the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health, P . O. Box 13, Getambe,
Peradeniya on or before 25.01.2013. The words
"Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Post of Research Assistant" should be written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope clearly. The
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Note.– The candidates who are in the Public Service
should forward their application through the Head
of the Department/Institute.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation
that an application has been delayed or lost in the post
will be considered.
(iii) Application will not be acknowledged. A notice
announcing the date of the examination will be pubilshed
in the newspapers. If admission are not received within
four days prior to the date of the examination, the
candidates are requested to inform the Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health
immediately with the following particulars.
(i) Full name of the applicant ;
(ii) Address ;
(iii) Date of posting, registered No and Post office.
10. The photostat copies of the following should be attached to
the application :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Educational Certificates ;
(iii) Diploma Certificate in Animal Husbandry.
Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate is required to prove his
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
The following documents are accepted for that purpose :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport (issued 3 years prior to the date of the
examination).
Submission of false information.– If it reveals that a candidate has
not gained the required qualifications to sit for the examination his/
her candidature can be cancelled before or during the examination or
after the examination or at any stage. If it appears that a candidate

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2567
has submitted false information knowingly he/she will be dismissed
from service.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions pertaining to the appointment to the Public Service
stipulated in the paragraph (3) of this Gazette notification and rules
and regulations for the candidates.
11. The Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health deserves himself the right to take a decision with regard to a
problem arisen about the number to be recruited and that will be the
final decision.
Dr. W. K. 
DE SILV A,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
28th November, 2012.
M
INISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS II"b" OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERIVCE - 2013
Medium selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage (For office use only)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01.  Name :
1.1 Name with initials (in block letters )
(Example : SILV A, B. A.)
1.2 Full name in Sinhala :
1.3 N. I. C. No.
02. Address :
Private address :–––––––––––.
Official address :–––––––––––.
The address to which the admission card to be sent :––––––––.
03. 3.1 Sex (Mark the relevant cage) :
Female
Male
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of application :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Civil status (Mark the relevant cage) :
Married
Single
04. Educational qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) : Year :––––––––––. Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) : Year :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.3 ( a) The Institute from where the Diploma was obtained :
––––––––––.
(b) The year in which the Diploma was obtained :–––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous posts held (if available) :
Post Institute From To
6. The name of the Post Office to which the Examination fees had
been paid :––––––––––.
No. of the Money Order :––––––––––.
The Examination fee is Rs. 400. It can be paid to any Post Office
in the island in favour of the Director General, Animal
Production and Health. Affix the receipt here.
07. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of the
information furnished by me is found to be false or incorrect,
I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed
without any compensation if such detection is made after
appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2568
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts
in the public service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... is
serving in this Department as a ................................ and foregoing
particulars were checked by me and found to be correct. He/she
could/could not be released from the present post held by him/her if
selected for the above post.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
Rubber stamp should be used.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
12–661
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SPORTS
National Institute of Sports Science
Diploma Course in Sports Science 2013/2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified candidates to
follow the Diploma Course in Sports Science conducted in Sinhala
medium by the National Institute of Sports Science of the Ministry
of Sports. The applicants should be between 18-35 years of age.
(The upper age limit for those who are in Government Service
should not exceed 45 years).
01. Educational and other qualifications :
1.1 Should have passed G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination
in Six (6) subjects with three (03) Credits in not more
than two sittings and two of the six subjects should be
Sinhala or Tamil Language and Arithmetic or Mathematics.
1.2 In addition to the above, the applicants should have
obtained –
(a) First, Second or Third place in National Sports
Festival or First or Second place in an individual event/
First place in a team event of a District Level
Competition of the same Sports Festival conducted
by the Ministry ; or
(b) First, Second or Third place in an individual event/
First or Second place in a team event conducted by a
National Sports Association ; or
(c) First place in an individual event or a championship in
a team event of over Sixteen years of age in a National
School Competition ; or
(d) Should have participated in South Asian games, Asian
games, Asian Championship competitions,
Commonwealth Games, World Championship games
or Olympic Games as a member of a National Sports
Team ; or
(e) Should have served as Sports Officer in the Ministry
of Sports or in an institution under the Ministry or
Sports Officer in any Provincial Council or as a teacher
in sports under the Ministry of Education (It is
mandatory to fulfill the requirements relating to note
01) ; or
(f) Should be a Teacher, Instructor/tress in sports or
Physical Education (even as a V olunteer) in an
institution recognized by the Government or a Sports
Officer attached to the National Youth Council with
five (05) years of service and should possess a graded
coaching phase license obtained from a National Sports
Association ; or
(g) Should have successfully completed a preliminary and
a higher level course in sports of not less than Six (06)
months duration as an instructor/tress in a training
institute or school of the Police, Armed Forces or
Civil Defence Service.
N. B.– Note :
01. Those who are serving under the Ministry of Sports
and Ministry of Education should have completed
one year and five years of service respectively.
(Physical education teachers who have received
training at College of Education should possess two
years experience).
02. Applications which do not conform to the specimen
form will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
2.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications
mentioned above should submit their applications in a
paper of 8" x 13 1/2" in size as per specimen application
form appearing at the end of this notice. Applications
should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting and
sent by Registered Post to reach the Director, National
Institute of Sports Science, No. 100/7, Independence
Avenue, Colombo 07 on or before 30.01.2013.
2.2 “Application for the Course of Diploma in Sports 2013/
2014” should be written at the top left corner of the
envelope containing the application.
2.3 Applicants from the Government Service Provincial
Government Service, corporations should channel their
applications through the heads of their respective
Departments/Institutions. The applications which do not
conform to this requirement will be rejected.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2569
2.4 A money order obtained to the value of Rs. 500 being
examination fees drawn in favour of the Secretary,
Ministry of Sports, exchangeable at the Cinnamon
Gardens Post Office should be sent along with the
application.
03. Selection of Candidates. – Out of the applications received
all candidates who have fulfilled rquired qualification will be called
for a written examination. The candidates who are successful at the
examination will be called for an interview and a physical fitness
practical examination. Those who are successful will be selected to
follow the course.
04. Details of the course :
4.1 Syllabus contains five sections as follows :
(a) General Theory of Training (Study of Physical
Qualities, Skill Development Techniques and
Strategies, Training Methods, Aspects of Planning,
Principles of Training Load and Tests) and a viva
voce examination.
(b) Theory and practice of at least ten major sports.
(c) Specialization in Track and Field Athletics.
(d) Within the duration of the Diploma course,
specialization is required in football, volleyball,
netball for male and female candidates depending
on the situation in addition to Track and Field
athletics.
(e) Study of general subjects such as Sports
Physiology Sociology, Sports Administration,
Sports Statistics, Organizing Methods of Sports
Festivals, Sports Medicine, Sports Biochemistry,
Sports Nutrition and Sports Psychology.
4.2 The duration of the course is 12 months.
4.3 Those who are selected to follow the course should
pay Rs. 30,000 and this is not refundable by any means.
It should be stated "Secretary, Ministry of Sports" in
the event of course fee being paid by a cheque.
4.4 The selected candidates are bound by the rules and
regulations of the National Institute of Sports Science.
4.5 Certificate in “Diploma in Sports Science” will be
awarded to those who complete the course successfully.
05. Other conditions :
5.1 The Ministry does not hold responsibility to provide
employment to those who complete the course.
5.2 However if the Ministry requires, those who are
following this Course should enter into an agreement
with the Director of the National Institute of Sports
Science, they should do so accordingly.
5.3 Highest qualification or required qualifications should
be stated in the application and any data sent later will
not be accepted.
5.4 Any matter not specified in this notice will be decided
at the discretion of the Director of the National Institute
of Sports Science.
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science.
No. 100/7, Independence Avenue,
Colombo 07.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
N
ATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPORTS SCIENCE
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS SCIENCE – 2013/2014
1. (i) Full name : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Full name (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
(iv) National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
2. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––––.
Telephone : Official :–––––––––––, Private :––––––––––.
3. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––– Month :–––––––––– Date :––––––––––.
Age on 31.12.2012 :
Years :–––––––––– Months :–––––––––– Days :––––––––––.
4. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––––.
(by descent or by registration) :–––––––––––––.
5. (i) Sex :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Marital status :–––––––––––––.
6. Whether you are employed or not :–––––––––––––.
(i) Service station :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Present post :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Duration of the service :–––––––––––––.
7. Educational qualifications :
Year Name of Examination Subjects Grade

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.12.2012
2570
8. Achievements in sports (Certificates obtained and special
achievements) :–––––––––––––.
9. (i) According to the Gazette notification, under which
qualification category (1.2: a, b, c, d, e, f, g) that you are
eligible to apply for the course :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category
stated above :–––––––––––––.
10. Any other special remarks :–––––––––––––.
11. No. of the money order obtained after paying Rs. 500 being
examination fees to the Cinnamon Gardens Post Office :
–––––––––––––.
(Money order should be drawn in favour of the Secretary,
Ministry of Sports and the receipt should be affixed to the
application)
12. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs. 15,000 or
Rs. 30,000 if selected :–––––––––––––.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct.
I am aware that if the information given by me is found to be false
or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the
course.
–––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––––.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation Employees
only :
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science,
I recommend herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss.
....................... employee of ...................... working as ................. I
certify that this applicant if selected could be released for the period
of the course.
–––––––––––––,
Signature.
Name and Designation of the certifying officer.
Official rubber stamp :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
12–767
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.