

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1163
1163
¡â¤ 1 ,466 _ 2006  §¤àï”åà´Ú 05 Éæ¾ł ´ò˝ÌàÀ”ł¾à…å _ 2006.10.05
No. 1,466 – THURSDAY ,  OCTOBER 05,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1166
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1167
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th October, 2006 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 29th September, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Part IV A of the Gazette No. 1465 of 29.09.2006 was not Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1164
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1165
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1166
Posts – Vacant
DISTRICT SECRETARIAT – KALUTARA
Recruitment for the Post of Technician- Grade III
Applications are invited from candidates residing in the kalutara
district possessing following qualifications to fill the vacancy in the
Post of Technician - Grade III of the District Secretariat kalutara,
Duly completed applications prepared as per specimen application,
appearing at the end of this notice should be sent on or before
20.10.2006.
01. Job description - Maintenance of Electricity and water supply
(pipelines) of the District Secretariat, Kalutara.
02. Age limit - Should be not less than 18 years and not more than
45 years (The maximum age limit will not be applicable to those who
are already in the public and Provincial Public Service).
03. Educaitonal qualifications - Candidate should have passed
the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination  in 06 subjects including two credit
passes.
04. Professional Qualifications - Should have obtained certificate
(not less than 3 months duration) including Electrical and plumbing
from a Technical College or a Recognized Government Institution.
05. Salary Scale and Segment - Rs. 97,680  - 10 x 960 - 8 x 1,320
- 117,840 (as per P A Circular No. 09/2004).
06. This post is permanent and is entitled for a Contributory
Pension under the Contributory Pension Fund. If any officer holding
pensionable post is appointed to this post, he/she shall continue to
enjoy pension rights under the Pension Minute's and should contribute
to the Widow/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund.
07. Method of Recruitment - Suitable candidate will be selected
by an  interview.
08. Method of Application - Applications should be perpared in
accordance with the specimen form of application attached and duly
perfected application should be sent to the "District Secretary,
District Secretariat, Kalutara"  by registered post on or before
20.10.2006. The words "Post of Technician - Grade III" should be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application. Applications received after the closing date of application
or applicants who do not fulfill the necessary requirements or
incomplete applications will be rejected and such applicants will not
be notied. The decision of the District Secretary of Kalutara shall be
final and conclusive on rejecting of the applications.
S. H
APUARACHCHI ,
District Secretary/Government Agent-Kalutara,
Additional Secretary-Minstry of Home Affairs.
18th September, 2006,
District Secretariat,
Kalutara.
Specimen Application Form
Recruitment for the Post of Technician - Grade III to the District
Secretariat - Kalutara
01. 1. Name with initials:-------------------------,
2. Name in Full :--------------------,
02. National Identity Card No.:-------------------------,
03. 1. Date of Birth:--
Years:---------, Months:---------, Date:--------
2. Age as at :     20.10.2006.
Years:----------, Months:------------, Days :-----------.
04. If already employed in the Public/Provincial Service :---------
1. Department/Provincial:-------------------.
2. Designation:----------------------.
05. Address :-
1. Official :-----------------------,
2. Private :---------------------,
06. Educational Qualifications:------------------------.
07. Professional Qualifications:-----------------------.
08. Civil Status :-------------------.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in the
application are true and correct and declare that I have not been
dismissed or retired from service for inefficiency as a sympathetic
alternative for dismissal or have not been treated as having vacated
post. I am liable to disqualification before the selection and dismissal
without any compensation to me if the inaccuracy is detected after
the appointment.
--------------------,
Applicant.
Date:---------------.
Certification of the Head of the Department if the Applicant is
Serving in Public Service.
Mr.------------------ is working in this Ministry/Department, as a
temporary/casual-------------- employee and the he can be released
from the present post if he is selected for the above post.
-----------------------------------,
Signature of the Head of the Department
and Official Stamp.
Date :-------------------.
10-64

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1167
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service - 2006
THE Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class II Grade II  of the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held by the Commis-
sioner General of Examinations in Colombo on December, 2006 and applications are invited from either sex, as per the following notification.
2. Required Qualifications.- Every candidate should possess the following  qualifications and produce satisfactory evidence in
support of them :
(a) That he/she is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) That he/she has obtained,
(i) a First Class or Second Class Honours Degree from a recognized University ; or
(ii) a Post-graduate Degree from a recognized University ; or
(iii) a Degree from a recognized University with a Post-graduate Diploma;
(c) That he/she is not less than 22 years of age and not more than 36 of age on the closing date of applications ;
(d) That he/she is of sound constitution, possessed of good sight otherwise physically qualified fit to serve in any part of the
Island.  Selected  candidates will be called upon to undergo a medical examination,
(e) The candidate should be prepared to produce the following documents when requested:-
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii)Degree or Post - graduate certificate or certificates (under which he/she is qualified);
(iii) Two character certificates (obtained recently.) ;
(iv) Certificates of highest examinations passed in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
N. B. — Any of these documents or copies should not be annexed to the application except the receipt for the payment of the
examination fees.
3. Terms of engagement and conditions of service :
(i) The post is permanent. You are eligible for a  contributory pension under the Contributory Pension Fund. If you have been
holding a pensionable post, before 1st January 2003, you are eligible for a pension under the Pensions Minute and
contributions should be made for the W & OP Fund.
(ii) You will be ordered to pay 8% of your monthly earnings for the Contributory Pensions Fund with effective from the date
of appointment.
(iii) If the selected candidates are already not in the Public Service, they will be subjected to a three years probationary period.
(iv) If the selected candidates are already in the Public Service, holding Permanent and Pensionable posts, their appointments
will be  subjected  to three years acting/test period.
(v) Prior to confirmation in service all officers in Planning Service are required to pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination. The
Efficiency Bar Examination will include the following subjects :
(i) Planning Concepts and Methodology, Planning Institutions, Finance and Administration,
(ii)Economic Analysis and Statistics,
(iii)Project Plannings
(iv)English Language.
(Full particulars are given in the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Planning Service Published in Appendix ‘C’ of Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1134/5 of 30th May, 2000.
4. Structure and Monthly Salary Scale (According to the Public Administration Circular No.6/2006):
Monthly salary scale - Rs. 22,935-10x 645 - 8 x 790- 17 x 1050 -Rs. 53,555 (1st Efficiency Bar Examination before Rs. 24,225 and
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination before Rs.28,095)
Class I - Starting Monthly Salary Rs.36,755
Class II - Starting Monthly Salary (SLPS Class II Grade I) Rs.30,175
Class III - Starting Monthly Salary (SLPS Class II Grade II) Rs.22,935
5. Applications and Examination Fees.-
(a) Examination fee for this examination is Rs.300 and it must be paid to a District Secretariat or a Divisional Secretariat,
crediting to Revenue Head 4000 -20-03-20-13 before the last date of receiving the applications and the receipt obtained
must be affixed to the Top Cage on Page 2 of the application. (This examination fee will not be refunded.). Applications
which have paid examination fees after the due date, will be rejected without notification. It is adviced to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1168
(b) Applications will not be acknowledged. Admission Cards will be issued to the candidates by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. A paper notice, informing  the date of the examination, will be published by the Commissioner General
of Examination, immediately after the issuing  of Admission Cards. Candidates who do not receive the Admission card at
least 07 days before the date of the examination should communicate with the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Palawatta, Battaramulla giving the following information :
(i) Name of Examination;
(ii)Full name of candidate ;
(iii)Address;
(iv) Date of when the application is posted, Post Office and the Registration Number ;
(v) Date of when examination fees paid, place and the number of receipt.
6. Admission to the Examination :
(a) any candidate is permitted to sit this examination only thrice.
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the prescribed examination hall allocated to him on the date of the examination,
the admission card issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations should be produced to the Head of the
Examination hall with the signature certified. The examination will be held in Colombo and no candidate is entitled to any
travelling expenses or subsistence.
Note.—   Issue of an Admission Card to a candidate by the Commissioner General to sit the examination should not be treated as
his/her eligibility for examination.
7. Method of application.-
(a) Applications must be prepared in accordance with the specimen form given at the end of the notification using either side
of a paper size 21 x 29 cm(A4). Application must be prepared in such a way to include parts 01 to 08 on Page (1).
(b) Perfected applications must be sent under registered post addressed to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Palawatta, Battaramulla, to reach him on or before 20th October, 2006. The envelope enclosing the application should be
clearly written “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Planning Service” on the top left -hand corner.
(c) Application from candidates in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should be forwarded through the Heads of
their Departments and applications from officers in State Corporations, Local Authorities etc., should be forwarded
through the Head of their Institutions, before the prescribed date.
(d) Application should be prepared in the medium in which the candidate sits the examination.
(e) Applications not in conformity with the specimen referred to, incomplete applications and applications received late will
be rejected without any notice. Complaints regarding loss of applications in the post and applications received late will not
be entertained.
8. Identity of the Candidate :
A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity in the examination hall in a way that the supervisors are been satisfied for
each subject he/she offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for Registration of Persons,
A valid postal Identity issued by the postmaster General.
(ii) A valid passport (not issued prior to 3 years on the date of examination).
9. Furnishing Incorrect Information.– If it is revealed that any candidate is ineligible to sit the examination, his candidature may
be cancelled at any stage before the examination in the process of the examination or thereafter. If it is seen that any information submitted
by a candidate, has been done so knowingly that it is incorrect, he may be dismissed from service. Rules and instructions for candidates at
the beginning of this Gazette in Part I : Section (IIA) should also be adhered to.
10. Medium - The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English :
(i) A candidate could sit the examination in the medium in which he wishes ;
(ii) A candidate should answer all the question papers in one language ;
(iii)Change of medium is not permitted at the examination.
11. Scheme of Examination  - This is a written test comprising of 03 subjects :
Part (A):
(i) Comprehension - 100 marks two hour paper
(ii)Intelligence - 100 marks one hour paper
(iii)General Awareness - 100 marks two hour paper

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1169
Part (B) :
Viva-Voce Test (No marks will be given.)
Candidates who are qualified from the Part “A” of the examination will be informed the date for the Part “B”.
12. Syllabus :
Subject No. 1- Comprehension - This question paper will consists of two parts. Part I will be an essay and a precise. Part II will
comprise several passages to test candidate’s knowledge and understanding of the language. Candidate is required either to give the meaning
of underlined phrases in one single sentence or to write analytical notes or to explain in detail or to select the most suitable one out of the
alternative statements or to select the correct answer from several answers given. Equal marks will be given for each question.
Subject No. 2 - Intelligence - This is a Multiple Choice Question Paper to provide an assessment on the candidate’s power of
logical reasoning and analytical ability to draw sound inference.
Subject No.3 - General Awareness - This question paper is designed to test the candidate’s knowledge of environment including
geographical, political, economic, social and cultural environment of Sri Lanka, information of current National and International interest as
well as scientific and technological development.
13. Method of Selection.-
1. Candidates not obtaining a minimum of 40% from prescribed marks in each subject will not be qualified to be summoned for
the viva-voce test. Selections for appointments will be on the highest marks of the examination.
2. In the event of candidates having tied for a place, securing highest marks at the examination, final decision will be taken by
the Public Service Commission.
14. Public Service Commission will make decisions with the concurrence of the PSC regarding any matter, which are not provided
in this notice and the number of candidates to be recruited by this examination and that will be the final decision on this regard.
15. Candidates should have completed the required qualifications before the closing date of applications.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B. JAYASUNDERA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
22nd September, 2006.
Specimen Application Form
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service
For Office use only
Medium of the Examination
Sinhala-2, Tamil -3, English -4
(write the relevant Number in the cage)
01. (i) Last Name with Initials :———.
(In Block Capitals)
E.g. Mr./Mrs./Miss SILV A A.L.
(ii)Names for which Initails stand :———.
(In Block Capitals)
02. Address to which Admission card should be sent. :———.
(In Block Capitals)
03. Sex (write the relevant number in the cage)                                                  Famale- 1 Male -0 :———.
04. Date of Birth :———.
(i) Year :———, Month :———,        Date :———.
(ii) Age as at 20th October, 2006 :
  Years                    Months                       Days

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1170
05. Ethnic Group :
(1) Sinhala
(2) Sri Lankan Tamil
(3) Indian Tamil
(4) Sri Lankan Muslim (Write the Number indicating the Ethnic Group in the Cage)
(5) Any other
06. Highest Educational Qualifications :—
Degree/Diploma Exam. Year Subjects Class Name of the University
obtained or Institution
Highest Examination Passed :
(a) In Sinhala :———.
(b) In Tamil :———.
(c) In English :———.
07. Particulars of any previous Employment (If applicable) :–
Name of the Dept./Inst. Posts Period Annual Salary
held From                To
08. Particulars of Residence :–
(i) Divisional Secretary’s Division
(Residence) :———.
(ii)Grama Niladhari’s Division :———.
(iii)District and the date from which you have been resident there :———.
(iv) National Identity Card No. :
09. (a) Are you in debt? If so, to what extent? :———.
(b) Have you been convicted of a criminal offence by a Court of Law? :———.
If so, give particulars ? :———.
10. Receipt issued for payment of Examination Fees (Affixed) :–
No. :———.
Date  :———.
Office of issue :———.
To affix the receipt

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1171
11. I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. In
terms of the conditions relating to this examination, if I have given an incorrect information, I am aware that my candidature can
be cancelled before or after the examination, and if detected after the selection, I can be dismissed from service.
——————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :------.
12. Attestation of Applicant’s Signature :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/her
signature before me on ..................
——————,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :———.
Full Name of Attestor :———.
Address and Designations :———.
(Applicant’s signature should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or a Justice of the Peace or a Commissioner of
Oaths or an Attorney-at-Law or a Permanent Government Officer, drawing an annual consolidated salary of not less than Rs.230,700).
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution :–
The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institution. He/She is
holding a permanent and pensionable/temporary post. I hereby certify that during the past ......................... He/She has earned all increments,
that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (other than warning) and that if he/she is selected for the post he/she will
be/will not be released from his/her present post.
——————,
Signature  and Official Seal,
of the Head of Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :———.
Designation :———.
Date :———.
Department/Institution :———.
10-142
B3 -B 079391

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1172
B3-B 079358
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full
payments to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than
12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.10.2006
1173
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies
depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
The  Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2006
OCTOBER 05.10.2006 Thursday — 22.09.2006 Friday 12 noon
13.10.2006 Friday –– 29.09.2006 Friday 12 noon
20.10.2006 Friday –– 05.10.2006 Thursday 12 noon
27.10.2006 Friday –– 13.10.2006 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 03.11.2006 Friday — 20.10.2006 Friday 12 noon
10.11.2006 Friday –– 27.10.2006 Friday 12 noon
17.11.2006 Friday –– 03.11.2006 Friday 12 noon
24.11.2006 Friday –– 10.11.2006 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 01.12.2006 Friday — 17.11.2006 Friday 12 noon
08.12.2006 Friday –– 24.11.2006 Friday 12 noon
15.12.2006 Friday –– 01.12.2006 Friday 12 noon
22.12.2006 Friday –– 08.12.2006 Friday 12 noon
29.12.2006 Friday –– 15.12.2006 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.