

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2035$15 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 06 jeks nodod - 2017'09'06
No. 2035/15  - WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  06,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
 PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A—G  26200- 14  (09/2017)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: id'.s$j;=$03$2017
THE   INDUSTRIAL   DISPUTES   ACT,   CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers’
Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya
of the one part and The Ceylon Estate Staffs’ Union,
No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd
day of March 2017 regarding the Supervisory Staff is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner General of Labour,
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
25th August, 2017.
Collective Agreement No. 18 of 2017
Collective Agreement – Supervisory Staff
This Collective Agreement entered into between The
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs’
Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, Second Part, Made
and entered into on the Twenty third day of March Two
Thousand seventeen witnesseth as follows:-
1. Title
This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations
Supervisory Staff Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall bind the members of the
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, whose names are
contained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred
to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be
according to context, for and in respect of the
categories of employees hereinafter described in
Clause 3 hereof.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid
Trade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and
members of the said Union who are employed by the
members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I
on monthly contracts of Employment and in respect
of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II
hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements
The Provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and
replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation
to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being
any dispute with regard to the existence of any other
term or condition not contained herein, the same shall
be resolved by reference to the ‘disputes committee’
to be formed under the provisions of this agreement
and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in
terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is
not resolved before the ‘disputes committee’ but the
party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take
trade union action on the basis of the existence of any
such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration
Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this
Agreement shall be effective from 1st October 2016
and shall thereafter continue in force unless
terminated by either party giving notice of termination
in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the
condition that no party shall give notice to the other
before 30th September 2019.
6. General Terms and Conditions
i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this
Agreement shall only come into force on the
1st March 2017 and shall be deemed to be
included in all contracts of employment of those
covered by this Agreement with effect from the
said date. Accordingly no arrears shall be due in
respect of any payment whatsoever relating to
such revised terms for the period 1st October
2016 up to 28th February 2017.
ii. Grading of employees covered shall be at the
discretion of the Employer.
iii. Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory
service under the same employer, Junior
Assistant Field Officer shall be re-designated
as Assistant Field Officer.
7. Probation
On recruitment every employee shall serve a period
of probation of not more than six months, subject to
the right of the Employer to extend the probationary
period for a further period of three months at his
discretion for reasons of unsatisfactory performance,
misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation
shall be by letter. However, in the event of the
probationary period not being extended after the period
of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be
confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter of
confirmation. During the period of probation or
extended probation the Employer shall have the right
to terminate without notice or assigning reason
therefore.
8. First Appointment
No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this
Agreement unless he has successfully completed the
G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and
Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those
who have experience in the trade.
9. Attendance At Work
Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his
Employer, an employee shall present himself for work
on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the
usual starting time and at the usual working place and
shall thereafter remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
10. Promotions
i. Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being
comparable, seniority shall be given preference.
The Employers shall advertise internally
vacancies where employees covered by this
Agreement may have appropriate skills and
qualifications to make them eligible.
ii. Where an employee acts in a senior capacity
over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed
in the senior capacity, he will not be required to
serve a period of probation.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
iii. Where an employee is required to act in a senior
capacity for a period of more than one month, it
should be communicated to him in writing and
he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of
the difference between his salary and that which
was last paid to the holder of such senior
position, subject to a maximum of Rupees Two
Thousand (Rs.2000/-) per mensem.
iv. Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months
and during that period the employer shall pay
the employee 10% of the employees’ basic
salary as an overlooking allowance. This
functional allowance shall not attract any
consequential benefits such as EPF and ETF.
11. Salaries
1. The salaries payable to the employees covered
and bound by this agreement with effect from
1st March 2017 shall be as follows.
i. With effect from 1st March 2017, the
salaries of all employees in employment
as at the date of signing of this Agreement
shall be increased by 25% based on last
drawn salary.
ii. In terms of the above salary revision, the
salary ranges applicable will accordingly
be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
iii. In the case of Field Officers/Storekeepers
who are presently entitled to an allowance
on account of work as a Storekeeper, such
employee shall continue to receive his/
her allowances at the rate of 12.5% of the
salary drawn by him/her. The allowances
shall not be payable if the additional duties
are not performed or not deemed
necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF
shall be made in respect of this allowance.
iv. Subject to the provisions set out in clause
6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations
Companies covered and bound will to pay
the revised salaries in the month of March
2017.
2. a) With effect from the date hereof, employees
who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff
quarters being provided to them shall receive a
10% increment of the following allowances,
depending on the grade to which they belong,
and the revised allowance will be as follows:
Junior Asst. Field Officer – Rs. 1,122/- + 10%
= Rs. 1,234/-
Asst Field Officer – Rs. 1,188/- + 10% = Rs.
1,307/-
Field Officer – Rs. 1,386/- + 10% = Rs. 1,525/
-
Field Officer Special Grade – Rs. 1,518/- + 10%
= Rs. 1,670/-
b) In the event of any person not occupying
quarters provided by the Employer, such
person shall be liable to disciplinary
action.
12. Hours of Work and Overtime
i. The working week shall be six days of forty eight
hours. One day each week shall be allowed as an
off day. Work on the weekly off day or in excess
of forty eight hours per week or ten hours per
day shall be deemed to be overtime.
ii. If required by his employer, an employee shall
work reasonable overtime which has been
authorized by the employer. Each hour of
overtime work shall be calculated by dividing
the monthly rate by two hundred and forty (240)
multiplied by one and a half (1 1/2).
13. Leave
1) Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of
14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave
entitlement shall be on a proportionate basis.
All employees with more than 20 years service
and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to
three weeks paid annual leave as a special
benefit. This right shall not extent to any
employee recruited after 1st September 1993.
2) (i) Sick Leave – Leave on full pay shall be granted
up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year.
Sick leave will be granted up to two days at a
time without the submission of a Medical
Certificate. For leave of three days and over, a
medical certificate from an approved Medical
Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be
considered necessary, subject to the right of the
Employer to call for a medical certificate as
aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing
himself of his full quota of sick leave, he
may carry forward his leave, which he
could use in the event of hospitalization
or a prolonged illness in a succeeding
year, subject to the condition however that
he cannot avail himself of more than 90
days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms
presently permit him a higher quantum of
sick leave he shall be permitted to
continue to enjoy such concession as
personal to him.
3) Casual Leave – All employees shall be entitled in
each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual
Leave with full pay, not more than three (3) days
being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in
any one year will not be carried over to the next
year.
4) Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowed
each year to each employee on account of
religious festivals in accordance with the
religious persuasions of such employee. Such
leave may not, however, be taken in continuation
with Casual leave.
14. Holidays
Employees will be entitled to paid holidays on –
February 4th – Independence Day
April 13th or 14th – Sinhala/Tamil New Year
May 1st – May Day
15. Gratuity
Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the
Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
16. Age of Retirement
i. Unless the letter of appointment specifies a
higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be
60 years and will be applicable to those who are
in employment as at the date of signing this
agreement.
ii. However, an employer may retire an employee
at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory
work performance, conduct or state of health
of the employee. For this purpose
“unsatisfactory work performance’’ shall include
any act of misconduct in respect of which
disciplinary action has been taken.
iii. An employer who decides to retire an employee
at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii)
above, shall give such employee one year’s
notice in writing or pay one year’s salary in lieu
of such notice. Where such notice is not given
and the employee concerned is found guilty of
misconduct during such one year period which
misconduct would have otherwise resulted in his
retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be
retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the
fact that notice has not been given or payment
made in lieu.
17. Suspension As A Measure of Punishment
1. Punishment for offences in the case of an
employee may include suspension, provided
however that such suspension shall not exceed
fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension
without pay shall only be after a domestic
inquiry. Such suspension shall be in writing.
18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries
1. An employee may be suspended from work
without pay for a period not exceeding one
month pending a disciplinary inquiry when there
is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the
Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct
against him.
2. Suspension of an employee on the ground
referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period
in excess of one month shall be on half pay.
3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and
(2) above shall not apply to the suspension of
an employee pending inquiries by the Police,
by other Public Authorities or Audit
Verifications.
19. Administrative Transfers
1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to
schooling of children or employment of a
spouse, will, subject to the exigencies of the
service and the requirements of the Employer,

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
be made at the discretion of the Management
with one month’s notice in writing.
2. Transfers from one estate to another or from
one division to another which are likely to cause
hardship on account of children’s schooling or
the spouse’s employment shall generally be
made at the end of the year with three months’
notice in writing.
3. Employees whose children are sitting for the
GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will
not be transferred in that particular year.
4. The transfers of Employees whose children are
to be admitted to Grade 01 in School also will
be considered on a case by case basis.
5. No employee covered by this Agreement shall
be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds,
in the last year prior to his retirement.
6. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3) and
(4) above shall not apply to transfers on
disciplinary grounds, but the Management shall
give reasonable notice, depending on the
circumstances of each case.
20. Annual Increments
1. Annual increments shall be granted
automatically on completion of an year’s
service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice prevailing on each
estate. Where increments are awarded on a
uniform date to all employees, in the event of
an employee being confirmed in service within
six months of the date on which increments are
awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment
and will become eligible only from the following
year.
2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or
deferred, by way of punishment or for general
inefficiency, after the employee has been
notified in writing of such fact. In the case of
deferment, the loss of increment shall be
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for
the period relevant to the stoppage.
3. Revised annual increments shall be paid to all
employees in employment from 1st March
2017.
21. Disciplinary Inquiries
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by
his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge
which warrants dismissal or where, in the
opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace,
damage to property or disturbance of business
needs to be avoided. Where an employee is
suspended without pay he shall be notified in a
general manner of the reasons for such
suspension within 3 days of the actual
suspension.
2. An employee may also be suspended with pay
pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry,
where the Management deems that such measure
is necessary.
3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a
‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges of
misconduct alleged against him and the
employee shall be granted not less than seven
(7) clear working days in which to give the
answer or explanation. Where necessary the
employee may request further time and the
Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of
time depending on the nature of the charges, but
not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other
than in exceptional circumstances.
4. lf the Employer is satisfied with the written
explanation, the employee shall be exonerated
of the charge or charges and where appropriate
he shall be summoned to report back for work.
Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the
Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within
a reasonable length of time and shall commence
such inquiry within 30 working days from the
date on which the explanation to the ‘show
cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances
prevent the employer from doing so.
5. An employee shall be permitted to have a Union
member to defend him at the lnquiry. Such
representative shall not be a professional. If the
employee wishes to have the benefit of such
representation he shall inform the
Superintendent of  the name of the person
defending him at least 48 hours  before the
Inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent
May object to the individual selected, in which
event the accused employee may nominate
another representative. The failure of an

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
employee to be defended by a representative
shall not vitiate the inquiry.
6. The Employer shall endeavour to give the
findings and convey the punishment, if any, within
a period of 30 working days from the date on
which the inquiry is conclude, unless there is
justification for the delay. In no case shall
findings be delayed beyond 90 working days
from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save
and except in the case of a pending criminal
investigation. If no findings are given within 90
working days and the above exception does not
apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated
of the charges.
7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an
Employer may, where the circumstances so
warrant, terminate an employee summarily. In
such event, the letter of termination shall set
out the reasons for termination, including the
justification for summary termination. In such
event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or
to the appropriate forum.
22. Variations of Terms and conditions of Employment
and Disputes
1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance
in force of this Agreement. they will not seek
to very, alter or add to any of the terms and
conditions of employment, except by mutual
consent.
2. Any employee enjoying a benefit which is over
and above the normal entitlement, shall continue
to enjoy the same as personal, but this benefit
shall not extent to any other employee. The above
provision shall not apply to the consumption of
electricity, where a limit is fixed for all
employees.
3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this
Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the
Commissioner General of Labour under the
Industrial disputes Act, and if no settlement
could be reached, by voluntary arbitration
thereafter.
4. It is agreed by and between parties that the
Unions, collectively or independently, or their
members, shall not resort to any from of trade
union action on any matter covered by this
Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. Disputes Resolution Committee
It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution
committee’ comprising of 4 members each
representing the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and
the Ceylon Estates Staff Union will be formed. Such
committee will meet once in three months to resolve
any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above
as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions
of this agreement, if required. However, in case of an
urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’
notice.
24. Duty Leave
1. Subject to the approval of their respective
Employers, the President and one other office
bearer of the Parent Union will be permitted
such duty leave as their Union duties require.
2. Where any dispute arises with regard to duty
leave of the President and the nominated office
bearer of the Parent Union, as specified in sub
clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to
effect an amicable settlement between parties.
3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the
Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed
twelve days duty leave in any one year.
4. By arrangement with their respective
Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union
shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which
may be shared, on condition that the total leave
availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall
not exceed twelve days in any one year.
5. By arrangement with their respective Employers,
Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve
days duty leave which may be shared with the
respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the
total leave availed jointly by these two Office bearers
shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound
by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I
to this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union
to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a
situation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/
divisions/factories prior to such situations.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
2. Electricity
Free electricity would be granted to members of staff
on the following basis, irrespective of what they had
been enjoying in the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior staff – 140 units
Junior staff – 100 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior staff – 170 units
Junior staff – 130 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in
6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that
costs each estate.
Kerosene – Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene
per mensem to those employees resident on estates/
divisions without electricity.
3. Tea Allowance
The employer shall provide free tea, on the following
basis, to members of estate staff (including future
recruits in those categories presently entitled)
irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior staff – 2 Kgs.
Junior staff – 1 1/2 Kgs.
The staff members could purchase in addition to the
above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75%
of the NSA or COP whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more
kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992
would be entitled to purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at a
concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever
is lower with effect from 1st June 2003.
4. Death Grant
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death
of a staff member, the dependents will be paid a
sum of Rs. 75,000/- as funeral expenses.
2. The dependents of the deceased staff member
will be paid a 50% of the sum equivalent to 3
months’ salary within one month upon the death
of the employee and the balance at the time the
dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff
member, the dependents will be paid the sum
equivalent to 3 months’ salary within one month
of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme
1. The Employee contribution to the medical aid
scheme will be 5% and the Employers’
contribution shall be 10%.
2. A staff member who is a member of the staff
medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance
lying to his/her credit in the fund inclusive of
the company’s contribution to such fund, at the
time of retirement/death or termination of his/
her employment from the estate.
Interpretation
Word Meaning
Union means the Union referred to as the Party of
the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the
Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer means a company who has subscribed to
this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule
I hereof.
Week means the period between midnight on any
Saturday and midnight on the succeeding
Sunday night.
Y ear means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall
include the feminine as well.
In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto
set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two
Thousand and Seventeen.
A. L. W. Goonewardena Dhammika Jayawardene
Chairman President
Plantation Services Ceylon Estate Staffs’ Union
Employers’ Group
W. M. K. L Weerasinghe
Director General
The Employers’
Federation of Ceylon

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.09.2017
Witnesses
1. 1.
Dilantha Seneviratne Mr. Nath Amarasinghe
Director/ CEO General Secretary
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Ceylon Estate Staffs’ Union
2. 2.
Mahen Madugalle Robert Francis
Director/ CEO Treasurer
Kotagala Plantation PLC Ceylon Estate Staffs’ Union
3. 3.
Prasad de Silva S. S. Jayakumar
Assistant Director General Deputy President
Head of Plantation Services Ceylon Estate Staffs’ Union
The Employers’ Federation
of Ceylon
S
CHEDULE I
Agalawatte Plantations PLC
Agarapatana Plantations Limited
Balangoda Plantations PLC
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
Elpitiya Plantations PLC
Elkaduwa Plantations Limited
Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
Horana Plantations PLC
Kahawatte Plantations PLC
Kegalle Plantations PLC
Kelani Valley Plantations PLC
Kotagala Plantations PLC
Madulsima Plantations PLC
Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC
Maskeliya Plantations PLC
Maturata Plantations Limited
Namunukula Plantations PLC
Pussellawa Plantations Limited
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
Udapussellawa Plantations PLC
Watawala Plantations PLC
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
SCHEDULE II
Supervisory Staff Salary Ranges
Junior Asst. Field Officer Rs. 23,650.00 – Rs. 41,650.00
Annual Increment 450
Asst. Field Officer Rs. 24,100.00 - Rs. 46,100.00
Annual Increment 550
Field Officer Rs. 24,950.00 - Rs. 54,950.00
Annual Increment 750
Sp. Grade Field Officer Rs. 28,900.00 - Rs. 82,900.00
Annual Increment 1350