

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2440$22 - 2025 cqks ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025.06.12
No. 2440/22  -  THURSDAY,  JUNE  12,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A- PG 7149 - 05  (06/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NOTICE  UNDER  SECTION  10 (3) OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  ELECTRICITY  
ACT,  No. 20  OF  2009  (AMENDED) 
Issuance of Certificate of Exemption
THE Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka, exercising its powers under Section 10 (2) of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, 
No. 20 of 2009 as amended hereby issues a Certificate of Exemption to the following category of persons exempting them 
from the requirment of obtaining a license for the generation of electricity.
Certificate No. Exempted Party Effective Period
EL/EX/G/25-01
Category of Persons generating electricity 
using Rooftop Solar Photo V oltaic (RTSPV) 
system with one of the following technical 
configurations:
a. One Meter and One Account
b. Two Meters and One Account
c. Two Meters and Two Accounts
Until revoked and/or amended by the Public 
Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka.
 Chairman,
 Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka.
The aforesaid exemption shall be subject ot the following conditions:

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2025
2A
1.  Definitions and Interpretations
●    Definitions
 In these conditions, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires:
“Act” means the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009 (as amended)
“Commission” means the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka established under the PUCSL Act.
“Distribution 
Licensee”
means the holder of a license to distribute electricity granted under Section 13(1) (c) (i) (c) of 
the Act.
“Electrical Inspector”
means a person appointed by the Commission in terms of Section 6 of the Act to carry out the 
activities mentioned therein in accordance with the procedures set out under the Electricity 
(Electrical Inspectors’ Functions, Duties and Procedures) Regulations No. 01 of 2014.
Environmental Laws”
means those laws which are, from time to time, in force for the purpose of protecting the 
environment, including human health, flora, fauna and the eco-systems on which they depend and, 
for the avoidance of doubt, shall include, but shall not be limited to, the National Environment 
Act, No. 47 of 1980 and all relevant legislation relating to the assessment of environmental 
impacts and the protection of air, land and water.
“Exempted Person” means any person who is part of a category of persons exempted from the requirement of 
obtaining a licence for the generation of electricity as specified in Section 10(1) of the Act.
“Generating Facility”
means any plant, equipment, apparatus or appliance including interconnection, protective and 
control equipment used for, or in connection with, the generation of electricity for the purpose 
of delivery to the Licensee’s distribution network.
“Information”
means and includes any books, documents, records, accounts, estimates, returns, reports or other 
date (whether prepared specifically at the request of the Commission or otherwise) in any format 
or medium as may be specified by the Commission.
“Notice” means this Gazette Notice issued under Section 10 (2) of the Act.
 
“PUCSL Act”
means the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002.
“Site” means the premises at which the Generating Facility is operated and maintained by the Exempted 
Person.
“Standard Tariff 
Agreement”
The standard agreement for electricity supply to the Premises between the Tariff Customer and 
the Distribution Licensee entered into under and in terms of Section 25 (4) of the Act and the 
Supply Services Code.
“Tariff Customer” A person who requires a supply of electricity from a distribution licensee in pursuance of Section 
25 of the Act and is supplied by the Distribution Licensee
 ●  Interpretations
  For the purposes of this document, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned below:
 ●  Meter (in the One Meter and One Account  scenario):
  The electricity meter supplied and installed by the Distribution Licensee for the purpose of recording the net 
electrical energy imported to and/or exported from the Site.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2025
3A
 ●  Meters (in the Two Meters and One Account and Two Meters and Two Accounts scenarios):
  Refers to the following electricity meters supplied and installed by the Distribution Licensee:
 a)  A meter for recording the total electrical energy imported to the Site; and
 b)  A meter for recording the total electrical energy exported by the Generating Facility.
 ● Account (in the One Meter and One Account and Two Meters and One Account  scenarios):
  The electricity account created by the Distribution Licensee and assigned to the Tariff Customer in accordance 
with the terms of the Standard Tariff Agreement.
 ●  Accounts (in the Two Meters and Two Accounts scenario):
  Refers to the following:
 a)  The electricity account created by the Distribution Licensee and assigned to the Tariff Customer under the 
Standard Tariff Agreement; and
 b)  A designated account created by the Distribution Licensee specifically assigned to the Generating Facility, 
to record the electrical energy exported by the Generating Facilitiy.
 2.  Compliance with Regulatory Instruments
  The Exempted Person shall ensure all safety, technical and operational codes, rules, standards, guidelines and 
regulations issued by the Commission pursuant to the Act, including any revisions or amendments thereto from time 
to time are complied with in the installation, operation and maintenance of the Generating Facility.
 3.  Decisions, Orders, Directions and Determinations of the Commission
 (i)  The Exempted Person shall ensure all decisions, orders, directions and determinations made by the Commission 
are complied with in the installation, operation and maintenance of the Generating Facility.
 (ii)  The reasonable costs associated with such compliance shall be the responsibility of the Exempted Person.
 4.  Provision of Information to the Commission
  The Exempted Person shall ensure the Commission is furnished with Information in such manner and at such times 
as the Commission may require and in such format as the Commission may consider necessary or as it may require 
for the purpose of performing the functions assigned or transferred to it by or under the Act or the PUCSL Act.
 5.  Access
 (i)  The Exempted Person shall, subject to prior notification, permit any officer duly authorized by the Commission, 
including but not limited to Electrical Inspectors, to enter the Site. Such officer shall have the right to inspect 
the Exempted Person’s Generating Facility, as well as any equipment, infrastructure, software application or 
related records pertaining to the same, and to review all relevant documentation.
 (ii)  Where the Exempted Person is not the owner/occupant of the Site, the Exempted Person shall obtain permission 
from the owner/occupant of the Site for such person to enter the Site. Provided however, the requirement to 
provide notice shall be waived in case of an emergency.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2025
4A
 6.  Grid Connection & Operation
 (i)  The Exempted Person shall enter into an agreement with the Distribution Licensee for the purpose of connecting 
the Generating Facility to the distribution network of the Distribution Licensee.
 (ii) The Generating Facility shall include anti - islanding Protection and other safeguards to prevent safety risks to 
the grid, Distribution Licensee’s Personnel and the general public.
 
 7.  Environment
  The Exempted Person shall comply with all applicable Environmental Laws in Sri Lanka, subject to any exemptions 
or grace periods which may be granted to the Exempted Person under such Environmental Laws for compliance.
 8.  Safety
  The Exempted Person shall take all reasonable and necessary steps to protect persons, Generating Facilitiy, property 
and equipment from injury, damage and hazards. Additionally, all necessary safety precaustions must be taken during 
the decommissioning of the generating facilitiy.
 9.  Insurance
  The Exempted Person shall adopt and implement reasonable and prudent policies in relation to the management and 
insurance of risks associated with the Generating Facility.
 10.  Modification of the Certificate of Exemption
  The Commission reserves the right to amend or modify any conditions of this Notice.
 11.  Offence
  Any Exempted Person who fails to comply with or contravenes, any of the conditions set forth herein shall be 
deemed to have committed an offence under the Act.
 12.  Repeals and savings
  The Certificates of Exemptions published under Section 10 (3) of the Act in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2006/19 
dated February 14, 2017 and Gazette Extraordinary No. 1961/50 dated March 9, 2018, are hereby repealed and shall 
cease to apply to all schemes presently in operation. All such schemes presently in operation shall come within this 
Certificate of Exemption in a manner corresponding to the technical configurations provided herein.
EOG 06 - 0110
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.