

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
wxl 1869$4 - 2014 cqks ui 30 jeks i÷od - 2014'06'30
No. 1869/4  –  MONDAY ,  JUNE,  30, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV(A) : PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial Councils  Notifications
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
MINUTE   OF   THE   CENTRAL   PROVINCIAL   PUBLIC    MANAGEMENT    ASSISTANTS’   SERVICE
FOLLOWING Minute of the Public Management Assistants’ Service is hereby substituted without any prejudice to any
action taken or purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No: 1381/18 dated 25 February 2005 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
to be effective from 1st January 2004 and subsequent amendments made thereto from time to time.
                                                                                    By order of the Hon. Governor of Central Province,
R.M.N. R
ATNAYAKE,
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission of
Central Provincial Council
Central Provincial Public Service Commission,
P.O. Box 114, Katugastota Road,
Kandy,
25th April 2014.
1. Effective Date :
This service minute shall come in to effect from 02
nd April 2013
2. Appointing Authority
For Management Assistant Non- technical Multi duty-segment I service category- (Grade III, II, I):
Central Provincial Public Service Commission
Management Assistant - Supra Grade – service category (Supra Grade) :
Central Provincial Public Service Commission

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
3. Particulars of the Service Category
3.1.  Service Category :
Management Assistant Non- technical Multi duty segment I – service category
Management Assistant -Supra Grade – service category
3.2. Grades  : Management Assistant Non- technical Multi duty- Segment I
Grade III
Grade II
Grade I
Management Assistant - Supra Grade : Supra Grade
The Supra Grade shall consist of a scheduled cadre outside the cadre of Grade III, II and I. Appointments to
this grade shall be made through a selection process based on the vacancies existing in the cadre (Posts of
Supra Grade are indicated in Annex 01)
3.3. Entrusting Functions:
Functions shall not be entrusted on the grade basis and the Head of the Department/ Institution shall
entrust any function out of the functions entrusted to this service category to an officer in any grade on
exigency of service, based on the seniority and merit.
4. Role of the service:
Functions, which are non technical, but multi-functional in nature and for which specific skills other than the
technical skills are required, out of the tasks which are supportive or facilitating to the tasks of officers in executive,
management and administrative levels of the institutions, shall be entrusted to the officers belonging to this
service. Accordingly, the employees belonging to this service shall perform duties out of the tasks of this category,
which are determined precisely.
5. Salary
5.1. Salary code number:
Grade III, II and I : MN – 02-2006-A
Supra Grade : MN – 07-2006-A
5.2. Salary Scale :
Structured Grades of III, II and I
Rs.13,990 -10 x 145 – 11 x 170 – 6 x 240 – 14 x 320 – 23,230
Supra Grade
Rs. 20,030 – 11 x 365 – 18 x 500 – 33,045
5.3. Initial salary step applicable to grade system:
MN – 02 – 2006 – A
Grade Salary step  Salary Point  
III Step 01 Rs. 13,990
II Step 12 Rs. 15,610
I Step 23 Rs. 17,550

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
MN – 7-2006-A
Grade Salary step  Salary Point  
Supra Grade Step 02 Rs. 20,395
6. Post/ posts belonging to Service category:
6.1. Approved posts and number of approved posts (Shall be as per the approval given by the Director General
of Management Services)
Approved Designations Grade to which the post Salary Code Number of the
is approved Approved Posts
Central Provincial Public Central Provincial Public MN – 02-2006-A 2056
Management Management Assistants’
Assistants’ Service  Grade III/II/I
Administrative Officer/ Central Provincial Public MN –07-2006-A 98
Secretary Management Assistants’ Service
(Supra Grade)
6.2. Combined number of officers -
For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade, all the grades i.e III, II and I shall be treated as belonging
to the combined number of officers.
6.3. Nature of the post in service –
Permanent and Pensionable
7. Method of recruitment
7.1. Recruitment Ratio
Stream Percentage
Open 70%
Limited 30%
Note :- A number of vacancies of not more than 30% of total vacancies shall be filled by way of promotion
of employees in primary grade of the Central Provincial public service on the results of the Limited Competitive
Examination conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of Central Provincial Public
Service Commission and an interview for verification of qualification.
If the number of persons eligible for appointment on the results of that examination is less than 30% of the
vacancies, the difference between the 30% and the number of persons eligible for appointment will be met
from the persons eligible at the Open Competitive Examination.

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
7.2. Recruitment under Open Stream
7.2.1 Grade of Recruitment : Grade III
7.2.2 Q ualifications :
7.2.2.1. Educational Qualifications
(a) Shall have passed 06 subjects with credit passes for four subjects including Sinhala/Tamil /
English and Mathematics at the G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting.
and
(b) Shall have passed all the subjects in G.C.E. (Advanced Level) at one sitting (except the
General paper). Passing three (03) subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting would be
sufficient for this purpose.
7.2.2.2. Professional Qualifications : Not Applicable
7.2.2.3. Experience : Not Applicable
7.2.2.4. Physical Fitness :
All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island
and to perform the duties of the post.
7.2.2.5. Other
i. Candidates shall be of excellent character
ii. Shall have satisfied every way the qualifications, required for the recruitment to the post,
mentioned from 7.2.2. up to 7.2.3 on the prescribed date as per the notification/ Gazette.
7.2.2.5.1. Recruitment to the service shall strictly be on a representative basis. A fixed number of
vacancies shall be set for each administrative district of Central Province in proportion to
its population. Only the applicants from a particular district shall be entitled to compete for
the vacancies to be filled in that district.
i. At the instances where it is not possible to fill the number of vacancies allocated to a
particular district by the qualified candidates applied for the same district, that number of
vacancies shall be re-distributed among all the adjoining districts, in proportionate to the
population of such districts.
ii. If the total number of posts to be filled within Central Province is few and the district’s
population basis cannot be applied, selection shall be made in the order of the merit.
iii. Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less than the
number of vacancies available in a district, the district population basis shall not be
applied for selection.

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
7.2.2.5.2. Eligibility for inclusion in a district of Central Province
The candidate shall have a permanent resident of the district of Central Province at least
for three continuous years within the five (05) years immediately preceding the last date to
fulfill the eligibility qualifications for the examination
7.2.3 Age
7.2.3.1. Minimum age limit : 18 years
7.2.3.2. Maximum age limit : 30 years
7.2.4 Method of Recruitment : Open Competitive Examination
7.2.4.1. Written Examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Language Proficiency 100 40
Aptitude 100 40
(Annex 02)
7.2.4.1.1. Authority for conducting Examination:
The Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service
Commission
7.2.4.2. Professional Test : Not applicable
7.2.4.3. Structured Interview : Not applicable
7.2.4.4. General Interview : (No marks shall be allocated)
7.2.5 Method of calling for applications:
Applications shall be called through an advertisement published in the Gazette in all three languages or
Paper notifications.
7.3. Recruitment under limited stream:
7.3.1 Grade of Recruitment :       Grade III
7.3.2 Qualifications
7.3.2.1. Educational qualifications :
Shall have passed G.C.E (O/L) Examination in not less than 06 subjects including Language/ Literature
and Arithmetic/ Pure Mathematics/ Elementary Mathematics/ Commercial Arithmetic with credit passes
for two subjects at one sitting.
7.3.2.2. Professional Qualifications : Not applicable
7—PG 2091

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
7.3.2.3. Experience :
Shall have completed at least a continuous and satisfactory service of 05 years immediately preceding
the prescribed date, which fact shall be certified by the Head of the Department.
(A training period covered by a candidate prior to the appointment to a certain post on permanent
basis or a training period which shall have to be completed as a condition for appointment to a certain
post on permanent basis shall not be considered for the 05 years period for satisfying above
qualifications. Further the period of service under casual/temporary basis completed by a candidate
before his appointment to a certain post on permanent basis shall not be considered for the 05 years
period for satisfying above qualifications.)
7.3.2.4. Physical Fitness :
All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island and to
perform the duties of the post.
7.3.2.5. Other :
i. Shall be officers who are holding permanent posts in Central Provincial Public Service and confirmed
in the post and receiving the salary at primary level under salary codes of PL category and officers
receiving salary under salary code MN-01-2006 A as per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006
ii. Candidates shall be of excellent character
iii. Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required for recruitment to the post as at date prescribed in
the Gazette notification or recruitment advertisement
7.3.3 Method of Recruitment : Limited Competitive Examination
7.3.3.1. Written Examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Language ability and Eligibility 100 40
Test of Management Assistants’
Service
Aptitude 100 40
(Annex 03)
7.3.3.1.1. Authority for conducting Examination:
The Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service
Commission
7.3.3.2. Professional test : Not applicable
7.3.3.3. Structured interview : Not applicable
7.3.3.4. General interview : (No marks shall be allocated)

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
7.3.4 Method of calling for applications :
Application shall be called from the candidates of Central Provincial Public Service through internal circular
based on gazette notification published by the Director General of Combined Service.
8. Efficiency Bar
8.1.
Efficiency Bar Efficiency Bar point (number of years) Nature of the Efficiency Bar:
Written/Professional/Certificate
courses/ other
1st Efficiency Bar W ithin three years from the date W ritten (Annex 04)
of recruitment to Grade III
2nd Efficiency Bar W ithin three years from the date W ritten (Annex 05)
of promotion to Grade II
3rd Efficiency Bar W ithin five years from the date W ritten (Annex 06)
promotion to Grade I
8.2. The Efficiency bar Examination shall be conducted twice every year.
8.3. Authority for conducting Examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
9. Language Proficiency
Language Proficiency to be satisfied
Language Proficiency and Management Officers who have been appointed to service in a language other
than any official language shall acquire proficiency in one of the
official languages before confirmation in the service.
Other Official Language Proficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per Public
Administration Circular 07/2007 and other circulars issued
subsequently
10. Grade Promotions
10.1. Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 Employees who prove average performance
10.1.1.1. Qualifications to be satisfied
i. Shall have been confirmed in the post
ii. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least 10 years in Grade III
of the service category and earned 10 salary increments

<!-- page 8 -->

8 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
iii. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of 10 years
immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal
procedure.
iv. Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five years immediately preceding the date of
promotion.
v. Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
vi. Shall have obtained the proficiency in other language at the relevant level.
10.1.1.2. Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to Central Provincial
Public Service Commission for promotion to Grade II by using the form given in annex 07, the promotion
shall be made to be effective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications after verifying
these qualifications by the Secretary to the Central Provincial Public Service Commission
10.2. Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 Employees who prove average performance
10.2.1.1. Qualifications to be satisfied
i. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years
in Grade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.
ii. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten
(10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure.
iii. Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion.
iv. Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination on due date
10.2.1.2. Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to Central Provincial
Public Service Commission for promotion to Grade I by using the form given in annex 08, the
promotion shall be made to be effective from the date on which the employee satisfied
qualifications, after verifying these qualifications by the Secretary to the Central Provincial
Public Service Commission.
10.3. Promotion to Supra Grade
10.3.1 Promotion on the Limited Competitive Examination
10.3.1.1. Qualifications to be satisfied
(a) i. Shall be an officer of Grade I in Service
or

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
ii. Shall be an officer in Grade II who has completed at least an active and satisfactory service
period of not less than 08 years
or
iii.  Shall be an officer in Grade II of the service who has obtained a degree from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission
(b) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding the
date of promotion.
10.3.1.2. Method of Promotion
Appointments to a number of vacancies of not more than 35% of the total vacancies in Supra
Grade shall be made on the results of a limited competitive examination conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission.
The candidates who have satisfied the qualifications shall be appointed after verifying their
qualifications by an interview board appointed by the Central Provincial Public Service
Commission. The interview shall strictly be for examination of the certificates by which the
qualifications of the candidates are proved and no marks shall be allocated in this regard.
(Syllabus and the marking scheme is given in Annex 09)
10.3.2 Promotion on Merit
10.3.2.1.Qualifications to be satisfied
i. Shall be an officer who have completed an active and satisfactory service period of at least five
(05) years in Grade I as at prescribed date.
ii. Shall have completed satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding the
date of promotion.
10.3.2.2. Method of Promotion
Appointments equivalent to 65% of the total vacancies in Supra Grade shall be made on merit.
For this purpose, priority shall be determined on the order of the aggregate of marks of an
Aptitude Test conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Central
Provincial Public Service Commission and marks allocated on the basis of seniority and experience
by the board appointed by the Central Provincial Public Service Commission. Candidates shall
appear for an interview held by a board appointed by the Central Provincial Public Service
Commission for verification of qualifications. No marks shall be allocated at that interview.
(Annex 10)
Note : The date of promotion of the officers, who are unable to pass the efficiency bar on due date for
the purpose of promotion under average performance, shall be delayed by a period similar to the
period obtained by the officer for passing the same.
11. Appointment to posts : Not applicable
12. Conditions applicable to the service:
12.1. Conditions for confirmation in service

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
12.1.1. An officer appointed to Grade III of service by an open competitive examination shall be subjected to
a probation period of three years. If the Head of the Department is satisfied himself to the effect that
the officer has passed the first efficiency bar examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission and that the work, conduct
and attendance of the officer are satisfactory, it shall be informed to the Central Provincial Public
Service Commission by the end of the three years and thereafter the appointment of the officer shall be
confirmed if the Central Provincial Public Service Commission is satisfied in this regard.
12.1.2. An officer recruited to Grade III of the service by the limited competitive examination shall be subjected
to an acting period of one year from the date of appointment. The appointment of the officer shall be
confirmed if the appointing authority is satisfied that the officer’s work, conduct and attendance
during the period of acting are satisfactory. However, such officer shall complete first efficiency bar
within three years from the date of appointment.
12.1.3. Every appointment is given subject to the condition that the appointee should be ready to serve in
any part of the Central Province and further to prove by a medical test that the officer is physically fit
for the service.
13. Definitions and Interpretations
13.1. The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute on the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service.
13.2. The “Governor” shall mean the Governor of the Central Province.
13.3. The “Commission” shall mean the Central Provincial Public Service Commission.
13.4. The “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary of the Central Provincial Public Service Commission.
13.5. The “Service” shall mean the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service.
13.6. “Period of Satisfactory Service” shall mean a period of service during which the officer has earned all
increments required to be earned by the officer during that period by way of performing the duty of a Public
Officer efficiently and diligently and passing all efficiency bars prescribed and further satisfying all the
qualifications prescribed for the confirmation in service and no any punishable offence committed by the
officer
13.7. “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaged in the duties assigned
to him/her and drawing the salary attached to his/her post. However, not all the periods on No Pay other than
Maternity Leave approved by the government shall be counted for the period of active service.
13.8. The “Gazette” shall mean the Gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Absorption in to Grade System:
Methodology for absorption of officers serving at present to new grade system is given in Annex 11.
15. Interim Provisions
1. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade III
i. Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service
minute implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted
from one or several subjects of the examination i.e (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems and (3)

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Computer Test shall be exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination on the basis of
subject by subject, prescribed by this service minute for the officers in Grade III.
2. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II
i. Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade II in the service
minute implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted
from one or both subjects of the examination i.e (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems shall be
exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination on the basis of subject by subject
prescribed by this service minute for the officers in Grade II.
ii. Officers who have been promoted to Grade II before the effective date of this service minute shall pass
the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade II before the lapse of six years from the date of
promotion to Grade II.
3.  Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade I
i. Officers who have earned five (05) salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory
service of five (05) years after promotion to Grade I before the implementation of this service minute
shall be exempted from the requirement of passing the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade
I under this service minute.
ii. A period of concession of five years from the effective date of this service minute shall be given to the
officers, who have not earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory
period of five years from the date of promotion to Grade I, even though they have been promoted to
Grade I before the implementation of this service minute, to pass the relevant efficiency bar examination
prescribed for Grade I under this service minute.
16. Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be determined by the Hon. Governor of the Central Province.
Annex 01
 Serial Institution  Post  Approved
Number Cadre
1 Governor’s Secretariat - Central Province  Administrative Officer 1
2 Central Provincial Public Service Commission Administrative Officer 1
3 Chief Secretary’s Office - Central Province  Administrative Officer 1
4 Chief Ministry - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
5 Provincial Ministry of Health - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
6 Provincial Ministry of Industries - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
7 Provincial Ministry of Agriculture - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
8 Provincial Ministry of Road Development  - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
9 Department of Provincial Local Government - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
10 Department of Provincial Land Commissioner - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
11 Department of Provincial Engineering Services - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
12 Department of Provincial Co-operative Development - Administrative Officer 1
Central Province
13 Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission - Central Province Administrative Officer 1

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
14 Department of Provincial Educa tion - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
15 Department of Provincial Ayurveda - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
16 Department of Provincial Health - Administrative Officer 10
17 Department of Provincial Probation & Child Care and Social Administrative Officer 1
Services- Central Province
18 Department of Provincial Textile - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
19  Department of Industrial Development and Enterprise
Promotion - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
20 Department of Provincial Agriculture - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
21 Department of Provincial Animal Production and Health -
Central Province Administrative Officer 1
22 Department of Provincial Irrigation - Central Province Administrative Officer 1
23 Zonal Education Office - Kandy Administrative Officer 1
24 Zonal Education Office - Denuwara Administrative Officer 1
25 Zonal Education Office - Gampola Administrative Officer 1
26 Zonal Education Office - Katugastota Administrative Officer 1
27 Zonal Education Office - Wattegama Administrative Officer 1
28 Zonal Education Office - Teldeniya Administrative Officer 1
29 Zonal Education Office - Matale Administrative Officer 1
30 Zonal Education Office - Naula Administrative Officer 1
31 Zonal Education Office - Galewala Administrative Officer 1
32 Zonal Education Office - Wilgamuwa Administrative Officer 1
33 Zonal Education Office - Nuwara Eliya Administrative Officer 1
34 Zonal Education Office - Hatton Administrative Officer 1
35 Zonal Education Office - Kothmale Administrative Officer 1
36 Zonal Education Office - Walapane Administrative Officer 1
37 Zonal Education Office - Hanguranketha Administrative Officer 1
38  Kandy Municipal Council Administrative Officer 10
39  Matale Municipal Council Administrative Officer 1
40  Nuwara-Eliya Municipal Council Administrative Officer 1
41 Dambulla Municipal Council Administrative Officer 1
42 Gampola Urban Council Administrative Officer 1
43 Nawalapitiya Urban Council Administrative Officer 1
44 Hatton/ Dickoya Urban Council Administrative Officer 1
45 Kadugannawa Urban Council Administrative Officer 1
46 Wattegama Urban Council Administrative Officer 1
47 Talawakele Urban Council Administrative Officer 1
48 Akurana Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
49 Harispattuwa Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
50 Poojapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
Serial Institution  Post  Approved
Number Cadre

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
51 Tumpane Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
52 Kadawathsathara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
53 Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
54 Udadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
55 Pathahewaheta Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
56 Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
57 Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
58 Panvila Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
59 Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
60 Kundasale Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
61 Ganga-ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
62 Pasbagekorale Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
63 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
64 Medadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
65 Matale Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
66 Yatawatte Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
67 Ukuwela Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
68 Rattota Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
69 Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
70 Dambulla Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
71 Pallepola Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
72 Ambanganga Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
73 Galewala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
74  Laggala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
75 Wilgamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
76 Nuwara-Eliya Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
77 Walapane Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
78 Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
79 Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
80 Hanguranketha Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 1
Annex 02
01. Name of the Examination :
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service
Serial Institution  Post  Approved
Number Cadre
8—PG 2091

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
02. Particulars of the Examination
Question Paper Duration  Total Marks Cut Off Marks
1. Language Proficiency 2 ½ hours 100 40
2. Aptitude 1 hour 100 40
Marks will be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates are
required to obtain an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Appointments shall be strictly
made in the order of the marks secured depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled on the results
of the competitive examination.
03. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
04. Frequency of the Examination held : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus  
1. Language Proficiency The question paper shall consist of subject related questions designed
to test the candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings,
language and essay, drafting a given letter, making graph based on
the  given data, summarizing passages, expressing the idea of several
given  sentences in one sentence and use of simple grammar.
2. Aptitude This paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test
the candidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and general
intelligence
(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)
Annex 03
01. Name of the Examination :
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Central Provincial Public Management
Assistants’ Service
02. Particulars of the Examination :
Question Paper Duration  Total Marks Cut Off Marks
1. Language Proficiency and Eligibility Test 2 ½ hours 100 40
of Management Assistants’ Service
(2) Aptitude 1 hour 100 40

<!-- page 15 -->

15 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Marks shall be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates are
required to obtain an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Candidates shall sit this
examination only in one language they prefer. Appointments shall strictly be made in the order of the merit and the
number of vacancies.
03. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
04. Frequency of Examination held : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. Language Proficiency
and Eligibility test of
Management Assistants
Service
(2) Aptitude
 (These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)
Annex 04
01. Name of the Examination :
Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade III of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service
02. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within three years from the date of appointment)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
1. Office Systems 2 hours 100 40
2. Accounting Systems 2 hours 100 40
3. Computer Test 1 hour 100 40
The question paper shall consist of subject related questions  designed
to test the candidate’s ability of expression,   comprehension, spellings,
language and essay, drafting a given  letter, summarizing passages,
expressing the idea of several  given sentences in one sentence, making
graph based on the  given data, and use of simple grammar and
questions designed   to test the knowledge of the candidate on basic
rules and regulations applied in taking action regarding the documents
of an office and Management Assistant’s knowledge on duties  such
as action to be taken on a letter containing matters for  which such
officer shall be attended to and further questions to test candidate’s
knowledge on the items used in the office  such as call-up diary,
voucher, moving registers, attendance
registers, day stamp, official stamp and mail bag and their use
This paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test
the candidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and general
intelligence

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the
relevant service or in an official language.
Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall
score at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
Note :-
Officers who have obtained Computer Driving License awarded by National Apprentice and Technical Training
Authority/ a degree in Computer Science recognized by the University Grants Commission/ Proficiency Level at
NVQ 4 or above from an institution approved by the Tertiary Education and V ocational Education Commission
shall be exempted from the above computer test.
03. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
04. Frequency of the Examination held : Shall be held twice in every year
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Syllabus
Question Paper
1. Office Systems This paper shall be designed to test the candidate’s basic knowledge on
office systems adopted in government offices and practical use of that
knowledge, proper understanding of official documents and the ability of
presenting the ideas/ observations in clear and brief minutes and the ability
of drafting a letter according to an order given to the officer
2. Accounting Systems It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in government offices, functions of books and records of controlling
Accounts.
3. Computer Test i. Basic concepts of Information Technology
ii. Windows Operating System
iii. Folder Management
iv. Word Processing Basic skills on screen familiarization, editing texts,
Aligning text, fonts and attributes, indenting, paragraphs, sub
paragraphs, change of line spacing, Tab setting, finding and replacing
text, spelling and grammar, thesaurus, working with columns, page
setup, printing documents, creating tables. Sorting texts, file
management, mail merging, working with macros
v. SpreadsheetsBasic skills on formatting editing, columns and ranges,
insertion and deletion, sorting data, creating charts, printing, @
function, working with macros, file management
vi. Internet and Email
Introduction to internet, Basic Skills receiving mail
sending mail, responding to mails working with attachments creating
and using nicknames composing messages
For full particulars about the examination candidates shall refer to the Gazette notifications published by the
Director General of Combined Services from time to time.

<!-- page 17 -->

17 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Annex 05
01. Name of the Examination :
Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service
02. Particulars of the Examination : (shall pass within three years from the date of promotion to Grade II)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
1. Office Systems and Procedure 2 hours 100 40
2. Accounting systems adopted in the
government offices 2 hours 100 40
Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter
the relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive
Examination, both papers shall be answered in the language medium of their education or in an official language.
Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall
secure at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
03. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
04. Frequency of the Examination held : Shall be held twice in every year
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. Office Systems and Procedure It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems
practiced in government offices and his/ her ability of practical application
of the knowledge
2. Accounting Systems It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems
practiced in government practiced in government offices, books and records controlling Accounts
offices and orders and instructions of the Treasury issued in relation to that and
his / her ability of practical application of the knowledge.
For full particulars about the examination candidates shall refer to internal notification issued by the Central
Provincial Public Service Commission based the Gazette Notifications published by the Director General from time
to time.
Annex 06
01. Name of the Examination :
Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade I of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service
9—PG 2091

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
02. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within five years from the date of promotion to Grade I)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
1. Establishment Procedure  and 1 ½ hours 100 40
Procedural Rules
2. Public Finance Management 1 ½ hours 100 40
3. Current Trends 1 hour 100 40
Written test shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium. Candidates shall answer three question papers in
the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the relevant service or in an official language. In
case of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers shall be answered in
the language medium of their education or in an official language.
Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall
secure at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
03. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
06. Frequency of the Examination held : Shall be held twice in every year
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Syllabus
Paper
1. Establishment Procedure
and Procedural Rules
2. Public Finance
Management
3. Current trends
For full particular about the examination candidates shall refer to internal notification issued by the Central
Provincial Public Service Commission based the Gazette Notifications published by the Director General from time
to time.
This paper shall consist of a part containing questions to test the proficiency
of the experience gained on the knowledge of Fundamentals of office systems,
their importance, written communication, documentation and compiling formats
and office activities and another part containing of questions to test the
knowledge and practical knowledge on matters contained in V olume I and II of
the Establishments Code and V olume I of the procedural rules of Public Service
Commission.
It is expected to test the Candidates’ knowledge on subjects in government
departments, offices and ministries such as Financial Control, Custody of public
money, revenue and payment, budget estimates, supply and services (basic
knowledge on board of survey and store keeping, financial regulations and
auditing and basic banking practice)
This paper shall consist of a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge
on current, local and international events and a part designed to test the
candidates’ knowledge on new trends on office management, service delivery
of public sector and good governance.

<!-- page 19 -->

19 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Annex 07
Specimen Application for promotion of the officers in Grade III of the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service to Grade II on average performance
1. Name with initials : Mr ./Mrs./Miss
2. Names denoted by the initials :
3. Date of Birth :
4. National Identity Card No :
5. Date of entry to the service :
6. Appointment letter number to the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service : (If an appointee
from other Provincial Public Service, annexed the certified copy of the appointment letter)
7. Date on which the appointment was confirmed :
8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination and the index number :
9. Date on which the 10 years of service completed :
10. Current Service Station :
I hereby request to grant me the promotion to Grade II of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service from …………………………….
. .......................................
Applicant’s Signature
Date:-……………..
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission,
Central Provincial Council
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………………………………………………. is serving at this office and
1. Has completed an active period of 10 years to the date of ……………………………….
2. Has earned 10 salary increments
3. Has proved performance at the level of satisfactory or above during the service of 10 years as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure immediately preceding the date of promotion.
4. The number of half pay or no pay leave of the officer is ……/ he/she has not obtained half pay or no pay leave for
the period of 10 years.
5. Has not been subjected to any punishment (except warnings) during the period concerned.
6. No disciplinary action is proceeding against the officer and do not intend to take any disciplinary action in the
future.
7. Has confirmed in the post from ………………….
8. Has passed the Efficiency Bar Examination of Grade III.
I hereby recommend this officer to be promoted to Grade II with effect from ………………………… since he/she
has completed a satisfactory service of five years.
Signature of the Head of the Institution
Name:
Designation:
Date …………………… Official stamp:
Note : In case the officer has not satisfied the qualification from 1- 8, please mention them.

<!-- page 20 -->

20 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Annex 08
Specimen Application for Promotion of Officers in Grade II of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service
to Grade I on Average Performance
Part I – (Should be completed by the officer)
1. (a) Name with initials :
(b) Names denoted by the initials :
(c) Previous names: (in the event of a change of name only):
2.Date of birth :
3. National Identity Card No. :
4. Date of the first appointment to the service:
5. Appointment letter number to the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service :
(If an appointee from other Provincial Public Service, annexed the certified copy of the appointment letter)
6. Date of promotion to Grade II of the Service :
7. Current Service Station and its address :
8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination :
I,............................................................................. do hereby certify that all information furnished by me above, are true and
correct. I am fully aware that if the particulars furnished by me are found to be incorrect, my claim for promotion
Grade I in terms of this Minute is liable to be disregarded and disciplinary action is liable to be taken against me.
. .......................................
 Signature of the Officer.
Date:-……………..
Part II
Certificate of the Secretary to the Ministry/ Head of the Department/ Head of Institution
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………………………………………………. is serving at this office and
1. Has completed 10 years service in Grade II of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service to the date
of ……………………………….
2. Shall have earned all the salary increments during the 10 years
3. Shall have proved a performance at average level or above during the 10 years immediately preceding the date of
promotion according to the approved performance appraisal procedure.
4. (i) Date of passing the efficiency bar examination:
  Accounting systems  Office systems
Date of the examination .....................................  ..................................
Index number ...................................... ...................................
(ii) The officer has/ has not fulfilled the requirement of passing the second efficiency bar examination.
If the requirement has been fulfilled, mention the reference number and date of the letter.
5.  (i) If no pay / half pay leave has been taken, the period/ number of days: ………………………
(From the date of appointment/ promotion to Grade II of Central Provincial Public Management Service)
(ii) If any punishment/ punishments (other than warning) have been imposed, give a brief account:
(Indicate the reference number)

<!-- page 21 -->

21 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
6. If the officer has been released for service at a Corporation or other Statutory Board, period of such service:
I endorse that as at ................................the officer has completed a period of 5 years of active service in Grade II of
the service, that he has a period of satisfactory service, that all the foregoing particulars are correct according to
the personal file and that he has fulfilled all qualifications for promotion to Grade I of the service.
Signature of the Head of the Institution
Name:
Designation:
Date : ................................... (Official Stamp)
Annex 09
Regulations and recommendation paper for limited examination for promotion to Supra Grade of Central Provincial
Public Management Assistants’ Service
1. Particulars of the Examination
Question Paper Duration Total Marks
1. Office Management 2 hours 100
2. Office Systems 2 hours 100
3. Establishment procedure and procedural rules 2 hours 100
4. Public finance management 2 hours 100
5. General paper 1 ½ hours 100
2. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
3. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
4. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
1. Office Management
2. Office systems
Organization structure, Principles of organization, task analysis and task evaluation,
leadership, supervision and the ability to make decisions, communication, public
relations, coordination and problem solving
Principles on office systems, office procedures, documents and filing, planning and
handling of forms, office correspondents, control over the utilization of office
equipment, office layout and environment, job description, work and systems study,
measurement of work and office manual

<!-- page 22 -->

22 A IV ( w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
3. Establishment
procedure and
procedural rules
4. Public Finance
management
5. General paper
Annex 10
Competitive Examination for Promotion to Supra Grade of Central Provincial Management
Assistants’ Service on Merit
01. Particulars of the examination
Question Paper Duration Total Marks
1. Aptitude and case study 1 ½ hours 100
2. Seniority - 60
3. Experience - 40
02. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of Central Provincial Public Service Commission
03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
Procedures to be followed when making recruitments to public service,
establishment activities of public officers, Maintaining a personal file,
vesting of powers for the tasks such as appointments, transfers, promotions
and termination of service of public servants, welfare of public servants,
privileges entitled to public officers, general knowledge of the regulations
and circulars that have been already issued by the government
Responsibilities of an accounting officer and annual estimates, financial
control, delegation of responsibilities on financial matters, receipt of money,
accounting, acceptance of money, payments, custody of public money,
imprest and bank account, supplies and services, tender procedures, board
of surveys, audit queries, ledgers and summaries of income and expenditure
of government offices, bank reconciliations, books on financial management,
regulations and circulars issued on utilization of Public Finance so far by
the government
The nature of public administration, structure of public administration,
public policies and new public reforms, fundamental rights, Human rights,
Human Rights Commission, Ombudsman, Public Petition Committee of the
Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, making the office environment
properly, welfare activities of the staff, recognition of civil and official status
in the aspect of Social Science and the duties of public officers towards
recipients

<!-- page 23 -->

23 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2014
04. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. Aptitude and case study
2. Seniority
3. Experience
Annex 11
Absorption of those who are in service (shall be applicable for those who are in
service on due date)
All the officers who are serving in posts of Class III, II, I and Supra Class of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service on due date shall be absorbed under the new Service Minute in the following manner.
(a) Officers who are in Class III of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall
be absorbed into Grade III under the new Service Minute
(b) Officers who are in Class II of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall
be absorbed into Grade II under the new Service Minute
(c) Officers who are in Class I of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall
be absorbed into Grade I under the new Service Minute
(d) Officers who are in Supra Grade of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date
shall be absorbed into Supra Grade under the new Service Minute
(e) The present salary of the officers or the increment date shall not be changed due to this absorption.
07-402
This question paper shall consist of two parts
.
Part I
All the questions shall be related to office administration and
questions shall be given on general knowledge, ability of decision-
making, critical reasoning and problems related to office
administration.
Part II
Candidates shall have to answer questions on a case study regarding
office administration. The question paper shall be prepared with
one or several paragraphs.
When marks are allocated for seniority, six marks shall be allocated
for each active and satisfactory period of one year completed after
the completion of five years active and satisfactory service in Grade
I subjected to a maximum of 60 marks. For this purpose three marks
shall be allocated for a period of more than six months but less than
one year. However, marks shall not be allocated for a period less
than six months.
Maximum of 40 marks shall be given for a Supervising Officer in
Grade I of the service by allocating 02 marks per year.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.