

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FOUNDATION OF RURAL WORKERS AND
ALLIED RURAL RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 70 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 24th November, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 27, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
[Certified on 24th November, 2009]
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  FOUNDA TION  OF  RURAL  WORKERS  AND
A LLIED  RURAL  RESOURCES  DEVELOPMENT .
L.D.—O.(Inc.) 13/2008
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural Resources
Development” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for
the purpose of effectually carrying out it’s objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the  rules agreed to by its  members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the said application :
Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Foundation of Rural
Workers and Allied Rural Resources Development
(Incorporation) Act, No. 70 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural Resources
Development” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)
or shall hereafter be admitted members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of the “Foundation of Rural
Workers and Allied Rural Resources Development” and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Foundation
of Rural Workers
and Allied Rural
Resources
Development.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote activities in order to alleviate poverty
and overcome economical, social and cultural
deficiency among rural communities;
(b) to bring amity, peace and harmony among rural
and plantation communities irrespective of cast,
race, religious and ethnic variations;
(c) to develop socio-economic conditions of rural and
plantation communities through education, self-
employment, vocational training, small
entrepreneurship and all other viable means;
(d) to establish, maintain and promote projects for the
development of agricultural, horticultural,
livestock, other rural and cottage industries and
find marketing opportunities for such industries;
(e) to deveolp through unity and mutual understanding
the social status of rural workers and to minimize
the social setback of lower income group;
(f) to promote special programmes for women to
integrate themselves in to overall development and
gender equality;
(g) to grant financial assistance, arrange bank loans
and obtain government subsidies for rural and
plantation sectors;
(h) to organize seminars, workshops, study visits,
lectures and discussions, grant scholarships and
awards, organize sports and cultural activities in
order to develop skills in rural and plantation
sectors;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
(i) to establish pre-schools, parks, play grounds and
community centers to develop the mental and
physical growth of children in the rural and
plantation sectors;
(j) to provide medical facilities for the rural and
plantation sectors through the conduct of mobile
medical clinics and the provision of medical
equipment and medicinal drugs; and
(k) to print, publish and distribute leaflets, newspapers,
magazines and books for the promotion of objects
of the Corporation.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation is carriedout to the greatest extends possible
without-distinction based on race, caste, religion, language,
sex or political opinion.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 6, be
administered by a Board of Governors (hereinafter referred
to as the “Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairman
and other office bearers elected or appointed in accordance
with the rules of the Corporation made under section 6.
(2) The first Board shall consist of the members of the
Board of Governors of the Foundation holding office on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
Management of
affairs of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
encumber or dispose of any immovable property for
the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
(d) invest its funds, and to maintain currtent, deposit
and savings accounts in any bank;
(e) borrow or invest money for the purposes of the
Corporation in such manner and upon such security
as the Corporation may think fit; and
(f) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
and  voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law on all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of office-bearers, the resignation from
or vacation of, or removal from offcie of, office
bearers and their powers and duties;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
(c) the election of members of the Board and its powers
conduct and duties;
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed or the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the time,
places, notices and agenda of such meetings and
the quorum therefor and the conduct of business
thereat; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shall
be deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation in
one or more Banks as may be determined by the Board.
(2) All expenses incurred in the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out
of the fund.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
(3) The accounts of the corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Board.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
such  Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
such  Institute.
9.    The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
such person as the Board may from time to time determine
and shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever except
with the sanction of the Board and in the presence of atleast
two members of the Board who shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness. The
seal may be altered in such manner as may be determined by
the Board.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscription and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debets and liabilities of the Corporation
or for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members .
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
The Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
12. The moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to
the members of the Corporation.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation shall be able and capable in law to acquire and
hold any property, movable or immovable, which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of the
Corporation and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of, the same.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property, shall not be
distributed among members of the Corporation but shall be
given or transferred to some other association or associations
having objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation,
and which is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from the
distributing of any income or profit among its or their
members. Such association or associations shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at or
immediately before the time of dissolution of the
Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of any
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Application of
moneys and
property.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable .
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Foundation of Rural Workers and Allied Rural
Resources Development (Incorporation)
Act, No. 70 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWA THA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.