

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1787$14 - 2012 foieïn¾ 03 jeks i÷od - 2012'12'03
No. 1787/14  - MONDAY , DECEMBER  03,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Council  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
North Western Provincial Council Housing and Construction Statute No. 04. of  2012 of the North Western Province
The above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western  Province on 16th October, 2012 and
assented by the Governor of North Western Province on 24th October, 2012 is hereby published for the information of the
public.
P. B. M. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
North Western Provincial Council.
Council Office,
North Western Provincial Council,
Kurunegala,
26th November, 2012.
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  HOUSING  AND  CONSTRUCTION  STATUTE  NO.  04 OF  2012  OF  THE NORTH
WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
MINISTRY OF ROAD DEVELOPMENT, ELECTRICITY, HOUSING & CONSTRUCTION AND FISHERIES
A Statute to provide for the effective and efficient implementation of Housing and Construction Projects in the
North Western Province ; to provide for the discharge of Statutory Powers and Functions connected therewith ; To provide
for the Establishment of the North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Development Fund ; and to provide for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :-
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Housing and Construction Statute
No. 04 of 2012 of the North Western Provincial Council and shall come into operation on such date as may
be appointed by the Governor of the North Western Province.
2. Objects of this Statute are as follows :-
(i) to carry out housing and construction activities in the North Western Province in
compliance and in agreement with the National Housing Policy ;
(ii) to establish the Housing and Construction Development Fund ;
(iii) to establish the North Western Provincial Department of Housing and Construction.
Short title and
the date of
operation.
3 —  PG - 001465

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
2A
Department to
be a legal entity.
Head of the
Department.
Delegation of
powers.
Salaries and
wages of the
staff.
Functions of the
Department.
PA P R T I
CONSTITUTION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL DEP ARTMENT OF HOUSING
AND CONSTRUCTION
3. There shall be established a Department which shall be called the North Western Provincial
Department of Housing and Construction (hereinafter referred to as the “Department”) to accomplish the
objects of this Statute and to discharge powers and functions in relation thereto.
4. (i) The Department shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and
may sue and be sued and may show cause in all other legal actions by the name assigned to it and shall
have the powers to discharge all functions in the field of housing and construction.
(ii) Administrative functions of the Department shall be subject to the provisions of the
Establishement Code and Financial Regulations of the Central Government and of the Provincial Council.
5. There shall be a Provincial Commissioner of Housing to execute the powers and functions of
the North Western Provincial  Department of Housing and Construction who shall be a Class II Officer of
the Sri Lanka Administrative Service and shall be appointed to the post by the Governor of the Province
with the concurrence of the Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject. The Provincial Commissioner of
Housing shall be subject to the General Administration and supervision of the Secretary to the Provincial
Ministry.
6. Provincial Commissioner of Housing shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Department and
there shall be a staff to assist the Commissioner for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this
Statute. The Commissioner and the staff presently in service shall be deemed as the staff appointed for the
purpose of this Statute. The Commissioner may delegate to the staff any of his powers and functions
vested in him under the provisions of this Statute as may be necessary.
7. The salaries and wages of the staff of the North Western Provincial Department of Housing and
Construction shall be paid out of the Provincial Council Fund.
8. The functions of the Department are as follows:-
(i) to bring about a development in the field of  Housing and Construction in the North
Western Province in compliance with National Policy and to maintain the Housing and
Construction Fund ;
(ii) to implement, coordinate, supervise and to follow up provincial Housing Development
Programmes and Projects including flats, official quarters or aided self-help housing projects
and provision of housing loans and building materials ;
(iii) to give ef fect to the provisions of the Protection of Tenants Act and Rent Act within the
North Western Province ;
(iv) to carry out construction activities in respect of subjects indicated under 5.3 of the First
list of Ninth Schedule of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution ;
(v) to formulate planes for the setting up of  housing schemes;  acquire lands ; obtain Court
Orders and to act accordingly in order to mitigate the shortage of Housing ;
(vi) to implement Housing Projects and provide loan facilities and assistance in the form of
money and materials for the low income families in the Provicne ;
(vii) to acquire, develop and redevelop lands for the purpose of attaining any objects of the
Department ;
(viii) to alienate lands to persons for housing constructions ; to engage in all activities relating
to all aspects of housing development ; to promote such activities and to register and
coordinate institutions engaged in said activities and take follow up actions ;
Establishment of
the North
Western
Provincial
Department of
Housing and
Construction

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
Establishment of
the Fund.
Objects and
functions of the
fund.
The Fund to be a
legal entity.
Staff of the Fund
and services of
exports.
Board of
Management.
(ix) to initiate, supervise and follow up both small and medium scale housing schemes and to
maintain existing housing schemes ;
(x) to do all other things which are necessary or may be desirable for the achievement of all or
any of the objects of the Department.
PA P R T II
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  HOUSING  AND
CONSTRUCTION FUND
9. (1) There shall be established a fund which shall be called the North Western Provincial Housing
and Construction Fund (hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”) and the Fund shall be administered under
the Department.
(ii)There shall be paid into the Fund such monies as may be voted by the Provincial Council from
the Annual Budget for the purpose of the Fund.
10. The object and the function of the Fund shall be to facilitate the achievement of objects of the
Department through implementation, coordination, supervision and following up of Housing and
Construction Projects which the Department may envisage and refer to the Fund for implementation in
order to develop the field of housing and construction in the North Western Province.
11. The Fund shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue
and be sued and may show cause in all other legal actions by the name assigned to it and shall have the
powers to acquire, hold and engage properties, lands, vehicles, machinery and equipment for the purpose
of the Fund.
12. The staff of the Fund may be appointed from the staff of the Department. In the event where
the services of experts become necessary for the purpose of the Fund, such services may be obtained on
payment of fees as may be determined on the recommendation of the Board of Management with the
approval of the Chief Secretary of the North Western Province.
13. The Fund shall be administered by a Board of Management consisting of seven members as
follows who shall be appointed by the Minister and the Board of Management shall hereinafter be referred
to as the “Board”:-
(i) Secretary to the Ministry of the Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject of Housing
and Construction ;
(ii) Secretary to the Ministry of the Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject of Finance or
his representative nominated by him ;
(iii) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Provincial Council of the North Western
Province ;
(iv) North Western Provincial Commissioner of Co-operative Development ;
(v) Three experts in the fields of management, planning and law nominated by the Provincial
Minister in-charge of the subject of Housing and Construction.
14. The Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of the Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject of
Housing and Construction shall be the ex-officio Chairman of the Fund.
15. The North Western Provincial Commissioner of Housing and Construction shall be the
ex-officio Secretary of the Fund and the Secretary of the Fund shall be the Convener of the Meetings of the
Fund and he shall have no voting rights at such meetings.
Chairman of the
Fund.
Secretary of the
Fund.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
4A
Appointments
for the purpose
of the Board of
Management.
Powers of the
Fund.
Term of office
of the Board of
Management.
Resignation/
removal of
members of the
Board of
management.
Disqualification
from being a
member of the
Board of
Management.
Function of the
Secretary of the
Fund.
16. The Board of Management may appoint Committees and Consultative Committees and may
assign to them special subjects or responsibilities or functions.
17. The Board of Management of the Fund shall for the purpose of achieving objects of the Fund,
have the powers —
(i) to purchase or otherwise take into possession and hold any movable or immovable
property ;
(ii) to open, maintain and close Bank Accounts, to borrow with or without security, to receive
and collect constributions, gifts and local/international donations ;
(iii) to do all other things deemed necessary or desirable for the achievement of objects of the
Fund.
18. The term of office of appointed members of the Board of Managment shall be three (03) years.
Re-appointment of Members who vacate their office upon the completion of the term shall be at the
discretion of the Minister. The ex-officio members of the Fund shall hold office until they hold the respective
posts and when he/she ceases to hold such post his/her ex-officio membership of the Board of Management
shall cease and the successor to such post shall be appointed to the Board of Management in place of the
predecessor.
19.Any member other than ex-officio members of the Board of Management may resign from the
office by a letter addressed to the Minister. When the Minister opines that it is necessary to remove a
member of the Board of Management, the Minister shall have the power to remove any member other than
those ex-officio members and appoint another person to hold such office for the unexpired period of the
term of office of his predecessor.
20. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as an appointed member of
the Board of Management —
(i) if he is declared to be of unsound mind, insolvent or bankrupt or is convicted by any court
under the Penal Code or under the Bribery and Corruption Act ;
(ii) if he is or becomes a Member of Parliament or a Member of a Provincial Council or a Local
Government Institution.
21. The Secretary shall be responsible for the day today administration of the Fund. The Secretary,
subject to the provisions of this Statute or any other written Law governing the Fund shall —
(i) organize all services and handle legal maters necessary for the achievement of objects of
the Fund ;
(ii) perform and execute all such acts and things entrusted to him by the Board of Management.
22. The Chairman shall preside over every meeting of the Board of Management in the even of
absence of the Chairman, a member temporarily elected from and among the other members of the Board of
Management may preside over such meetings.
Chairman of the
meetings of the
Board of
Management.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
23. The allowances to the Board of Management shall be approved by the Governor of the North
Western Province on the recommendation of the relevant Provincial Minister.
24. (i) The Board of Management shall meet at least once in every month. The Chairman shall have
the powers to convene a special meeting of the Board of Management as and when it is deemed necessary
or expedient.
(ii) The Chairman may direct the Secretary to convene a special meeting within 7 days from the
receipt of a request to that effect from four or more of the membership of the Board of Management.
(iii) Making resolutions at the meetings of the Board of Management shall be by a simple majority
of the members present and voting. In the event of a tie, the Chairman or the person who chairs the meeting
at the time shall exercise a casting vote.
(iv) Subject to the provisions of this Statute, the Board may make rules regarding the procedure in
regard to its meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings. The Secretary shall keep the
minutes of each and every meeting of the Board in writing and all members present shall place their hand
thereto.
(v) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by reason only of any defect in the
appointment of the chairman or any member of the Board.
(vi) The quorum of the meetings of the Board shall be three members and the existence of a
vacancy in the Board shall not invalidate the holding of meetings and passing resolutions at such meetings
of the Board.
25. There shall be paid into the Fund —
(i) such sums of money as may be voted from the annual Budget and from time to time by the
North Western Provincial Council for the purpose of this Statute ;
(ii) all sums of money as may be allocated from time to time by the Treasury ;
(iii) all sums of money as may be provided by Members of Parliament under decentralized
budget and by Members of the Provincial Council under provincial investments ;
(iv) all sums of money received as proceeds of exhibitions, trade stalls and lotteries ;
(v) such sums of money received for the execution of the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 ;
(vi) all accrued interests or profits ;
(vii) all sums of money receibed by the Fund in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and fucntions ;
(viii) all sums of money received as gifts, donations and contributions and all movable or
immovable properties transferred to the Fund by any lawful local or foreign source ;
(ix) all sums of money, movable or immovable properties transferred to the Fund by any Line
Ministry and institutions coming thereunder, State departments or any other institution ;
(x) all sums of money provided to the Fund by Local Government Authorities;
(xi) all sums of money received from any source deemed fit by the Board of Management.
Allowances to
the Board of
Management.
Powers and
duties of the
Committee.
Constitution of
the Fund.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
6A
26. There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Board in the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, duties and funtions under
this Statute and the sums of money required to be paid out of the Fund by or under this Statute or any
regulation made thereunder.
27. (i) The Board shall open and maintain a Current Account in a State Bank for the purpose of the
Fund and all sums of money received to the Fund shall b e credited to the said account.
(ii) All moneys in the Fund which are not immediately required by the Board under this Statute
shall be invested in a State Bank as may be authorized by the Board of Management.
28. The moneys of the Fund may be utilized for the purpose of achieving the objects of the Fund
and for the exercise or discharge of powers and functions under this Statute as may be authorized by the
Board of Management.
29. The Board shall cause proper accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure and of all
transactions of the Fund for each financial year and shall prepare a Statement of Accounts with regard to
its project affaris.
30. The Financial Year of the Board shall be from January 01st to December 31st in each year.
31. The Board shall cause the annual statement of accounts to be prepared in respect of each
financial year and shall refer same to the Internal Audit Division of the Provincial Council of the North
Western Province for audit.
32. The Auditor General shall have the power to audit the accounts of the Fund every year.
33. A sum of money as determined by the Board may be paid out of the fund to defray the
expenditure incurred for the purpose of auditing the accounts of the Fund.
34. The Secretary of the Fund shall on the approval of the Board of Management submit to the
Minister the statement of accounts audited by the Auditor General together with a report on the activities
carried out by the Fund in the financial year under review and the Minister shall present same in the
Provincial Council for approval before the elapse of 06 months from the expiration of the financial year.
PART III
GENERAL
35. There shall be a common seal for the Fund and it shall be under the custody of the Secretary
of the Fund.
36. The seal shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chairman, Secretary and the Treasurer of the Board who shall sing on the instrument in proof of their
presence.
37. The Secretary of the Fund shall maintain a register of the instruments or documents on which
the seal of the Fund is affixed.
38. The Minister may give such general or specific directions from time to time as to the exercise,
discharge and performance of powers, duties and functions and the Board of Management and the
Department shall give effect to such directions..
Bank Account
and investments
of the Fund.
Authority to
incur expenses.
Accounts of the
Board.
Financial year
etc.
Audit of
accounts of the
fund.
Powers of the
Audior General
to audit accounts
of the fund.
Expenditure for
audit.
Annual reports
to be submitted
to the provincial
Council.
Seal of the Fund.
Use of the seal
of the Fund.
Instruments
affixed the seal
on.
Power of the
Minister in
relation to the
Board.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.12.2012
39. The Minister may make regulations in respect of the all matters which are stated or required by
this Statute to be prescribed or for which regulations are required by this Statute to be made.
40. (i) Every regulation made by he Minister shall be published in the Gazette.
(ii) Every regulation shall as soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before the Provincial Council for approval.
(iii) Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
such disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(iv)  Notification of the date on which a regulation made by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded
shall be published in the Gazette.
41. All members and employees of the Fund shall be deemed to be Public Servants within the
meaning and for the purpose of the Penal Code during their tenure of office.
42. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, the
Sinhala Text shall prevail.
43. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires —
“Provincial Council” means, the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Minister” means, the Minister in-charge of the subject of Housing and Construction of the
Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Department” means, the North Western Provincial Department of Housing and
Construction ;
“Commissioner” means, the Commissioner of the North Western Provincial Department of
Housing and  Construction ;
“Fund” means, the Housing and Construction Fund of the Provincial Council of the North
Western Province ;
“Board of Management” means, the Board of Management of the Housing and Construction
Fund of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Chairman” means, the Chairman of the Housing and Construction Fund of the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province ;
“Secretary” means, the Secretary of the Housing and Construction Fund of the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province ;
“State Bank” means, the State Mortgage and Investment Bank, Bank of Ceylon, People’s Bank
National Savings Bank and the Regional Development Bank.
12 - 449
Minister to make
regulations.
Regulations to be
published in the
Gazette .
Members and
employees of the
Fund to be
deemed as Public
Servants.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.