

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by  Hon. M. B. Farook, M.P.  for Vanni District
on 10th April, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 234]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on January 28, 2013)
DELTOTA  MAHFALUL  ULAMA ARABIC  COLLEGE
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
2—PL 007179—850 (04/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 006835—75  (12/2012)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DELTOTA MAHFALUL ULAMA ARABIC
COLLEGE
WHEREAS an Arabic College called and known as the
“Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College” has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected  with the said Arabic
College according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Arabic College has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be advantage  to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Deltota Mahfalul Ulama
Arabic College  (Incorporation)” Act, No.    of  2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the “Deltota
Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Arabic College”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
with perpetual succession under the name and style of  the
“Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College”  (hereinafter referred
to as the  “Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be sued,
with full power and authority to have and  use a common seal
and  alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to provide for training in and promotion of Islamic
culture ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of Deltota
Mahfalul
Ulama Arabic
College.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to conduct classes to train students in committing the
Holy Quran to memory ;
(c) to publish journals and books on Islam ;
(d) to create educationalist with full of knowledge and
personality by providing knowledge on Arabic
language, Islam and other fields ;
(e) to liaise among the higher educational institutes of
international level located in Sri Lanka and abroad
with the objective of developing the higher
education ;
(f) to authorize in conduction seminars, lectures, work
shops and othe activities by the central institute to
achieve the objectives of the school and to derive
benefits ;
(g) to provide a timely education on new technology
and other fields to face the new challenges ;
(h) to take action to extend the objectives of the school
at national level ;
(i) to foster and promote unity and brotherhood among
the Muslim community of Sri Lanka in particular,
and all other communities living in Sri Lanka ;
(j) to commence a ladies unit to memorize Holy Quran,
orphanage, Islamic guidance centers and Technical
Training Institutes affiliated to the College ; and
(k) to do all such other things as are incidental or
conducive to the attainment of the above objects.

<!-- page 4 -->

Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to provision of this Act and the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, vested in
a  Board of  Trustees (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting of the office bearers and such other persons as
may be provided for in such rules and elected in accordance
therewith.
(3) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of the Foundation holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts and matters  as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind whether from local or foreign
sources ;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security ;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in scuh manner as
the Board of Trustees may determine ;
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons for the implementation of these
objects ; and
(f) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by  the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of register of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from, office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers ;
(c) the appoinment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the
Corporation and any sub-committee thereof,
including the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat ;
(e) the qualifications disqualifications for member of
the Board  and  the Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
5
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be  amended,
altered, added to rescinded at a like  meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall  at all time be
subject to  rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the Foundation in force on the  day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
8. (1) The Moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of its objects as set forth herein, and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by
way of dividend, loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by
way of profit, to the members of the Corporation.
Provided however, that the provision of this section shall
not prohibit—
(a) the payment, in good faith of reasonable and proper
remuneration to any officer or servants of the
Corporation for any services rendered by him to
the Corporation ;
(b) to payment of reasonable and proper rent for
permises let to the Corporation or by any company
of which a member of the Corporation is a
shareholder ; and
(c) the reimbursement or repayment of reasonable and
proper expenses incurred, with the prior approval
of the Board of Management, by any member, officer
or servant of the Corporation in the discharge or
performance of his functions or duties or in
promoting the objects of the Corporation.
9. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
10. All debts and liabilities of the College existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the College on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
5
10
15
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
College.
Corporation
to be a non
profit making
organization.
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
7
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Board  as may be duly authorized
by the Board and another member of the Board who shall
sign their namens on the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
13. (1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a register
in which every person who on the date of commencement of
this Act, is a member of the Corporation, and every person
thereafter duly admitted as members of the Corporation shall
have inscribed in such register his name.
(2) The register shall contain the following particulars :—
(a) name, address and occupation of the each Member
of the Corporation ;
(b) The date on which the name of the member was
inscribed in the register ; and
(c) The date on which any person ceased to be a
member.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Register of
members.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is, or are, by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
16. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
perceding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15

<!-- page 10 -->

Deltota Mahfalul Ulama Arabic College
(Incorporation)
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .