

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
233
233
wxl 1"903 - 2015 fmnrjdß ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'02'20
No. 1,903 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 236
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 242
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 13th March, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th
February, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
234
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
235
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
236
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in terms of the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of Quazis for
the areas indicated in the following Schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized
by the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Departm ent of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years, should be physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of
support services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by Registered Post to reach me on or before 13th March 2015 with word
'Quazi' written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Originals of documents should not be forwarded with the applicatio n.
W. K. D. W
IJERATHNE,
Senior Assistant Secretary for Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. B. Box. 573,
Colombo 12,
22nd January, 2015.
THE  SCHEDULE
01. Galle - Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of Galle in the Galle
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
02. Colombo West  - Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Dehiwala, Mount -
Lavinia, Ratmalana, Nugegoda, Papiliyana, Maharagama, Pannipitiya, Homagama, Polgasovita, Ingiriya, Rajagiriya, Battaramulla
and Athurugiriya areas in the Colombo Judicial division under (Chapter 115) the Musilm Marriage and Divorce Act.
03. Matale - Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of Matale in Matale
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
04. Gampaha  - Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S.'s Division of Gampaha,
Attanagalla, Mirigama and Mahara in Gampaha District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marraige and Divorce Act.
05. Hatton -  - Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of Hatton in the
Nuwara-Eliya District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
237
APPLICATION FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF QUAZI UNDER THE MUSLIM MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE ACT (CHAPTER 115) AS AMENDED BY ACTS,
NO. 1 OF 1965 AND NO. 32 OF 1969, FOR THE ........................................... QUAZI DIVISION
1. Full Name  :
2. Name with Initial :
3. Permanent Residence :
4. Postal Address :
5. Date of Birth :
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Educational Qualifications :
12. Professional Qualifications :
13. Language which the applicant can read and write :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
238
14. Does the Applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :
15. Is he Married ? :
16. Is wife living ?
17. Past and Present Occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation
18. Value of Possessed by Applicant : Rs.
19. Monthly Income : Rs.
20. Amount of Debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? :
22. Are you an income tax payer ? :
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :
24. Particulars of Court convictions if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
(1) (2)
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this.
02–501

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
239
AUDITOR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Direct Recruitment to the Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka Audit Service - 2014(2015)
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons possessing the professional qualifications specified in paragraph 02 below for the recruitment
of Superintendents of Audit Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka Audit Service on direct basis.
01. Scheme of Recruitment.– The applicants possessing the qualifications specified in paragraph 02 below will be interviewed and
on the baiss of its results, 08 vacancies not less than 10 percent of the existing vacancies of the Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka Audit Service
will be filled by the Public Service Commission.
02. Qualifications.– A person who has passed the final examination and obtained at least the Associate Membership of any of the
following Institutions :
(i) The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or in England and Wales.
(ii) The Chartered Institute of Management Acountants, U. K.
(iii) Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, U. K. or similar professional body.
Note.– Applications should not be forwarded on pending results of any examination.
03. Salary Scale.– The monthly consolidated salary scale for this post is SL-1, Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555
and salaries will be paid in accordance with the Public Administration Circular 06/2006.
04. Age limit.– Should not be less than 22 years and not more than 40 years of age on 20th February, 2015.
05. Physical Eligibility and Other Service Conditions :
(a) All candidates should have an excellent moral character and must be of sound constitution.
(b) Selected officers may be called upon to serve in any par tof the Island.
(c) All officers recruited to this post should achieve the proficiency of the second language as applicable in terms of the Pubilc
Administration Circular 01/2004.
(d) This post is permanent and pensionable and the selected candidates will be appointed to this service on probation for a
period of three years. An officer, who is already confirmed in a permanent and pensionable post in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service, will be appointed to the new post at the first instance for an acting period of one year.
(e) Provided that an officer so appointed has fulfilled the relevant qualifications he/she will be confirmed in the service at the
end of the probationary/acting period.
06. Method of Recruitment.– The applicants will be interviewed by a Board approved by the Public Service Commission and
marks will be given in accordance with the marking scheme shown below. Based on the marks and the recommendations of the Interview
Board, the applicants who obtained the highest marks will be recruited to the post of Superintendent of Audit Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka
Audit Service.
(a) Professional Qualifications : Maximum Marks 25
(i) For other equivalent full professional qualifications acquired in addition to the basic 15 marks
qualifications (05 marks per each professional qualification)
(ii) For a professional quailfication acquired in another field in addition to the above 10 marks
mentioned fields
(b) Educational Qualifications : Maximum Marks 20
(i) Post Graduate qualification obtained from a university recognized by the University 20 marks
Grants Commission (in another field)
(ii) Post Graduate Diploma obtained from a university recognized by the University 15 marks
Grants Commission (Auditing/Accounting)
(iii) Post Graduate Diploma obtained from a university recognized by the University 10 marks
Grants Commission (in another field)
(iv) Special Degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission
(i) First Class 08 marks
(ii) Second Class Upper Division 07 marks
(iii) Second Class Lower Division 06 marks

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
240
(v) A degree with an ordinary pass obtained from a university recognized by the 05 marks
University Grants Commission
(c) Computer Literacy Maximum Marks 10
(i) A degree obtained from a recognized university 10 marks
(ii) A diploma obtained from a recognized university 08 marks
(iii) A certificate on computer technology awarded by a recognized Government or 06 marks
private institution
(A course not less than 06 months and not mroe than 01 year/not less than 1500 hours)
(iv) A certificate on computer technology awarded by a recognized Government or 04 marks
private institution
(A course not more than 06 months and not less than 03 months/not less than 720 hours)
(v) A certificate on computer technology awarded by a recognized Government or private 03 marks
institution
(A course not less than 02 weeks and not more than 03 months/not less than 360 hours)
Marks will be given only for the highest qualification acquired.
Note.– A Post Graduate degree or a Post Graduate Course or a degree acquired by the applicant will not be considered as
educational qualifications mentioned in (b) III, (b)IV and (b)V and qualifications on computer literacy mentioned in (c)
I and (c) II above.
(d) Experience Maximum Marks 20
(In addition to the basic qualifications acquired by the applicant, 05 marks per year
in the service relating to the field after the completion of 02 expected years)
(e) Special Skills : Maximum Marks 10
(i) Participation as resource persons 03 marks
(ii) Published project reports, Research Papers and professional or educational books 05 marks
(iii) Other skills recognized by the Interview Board 02 marks
(f) English Language Proficiency Maximum Marks 10
(i) Degree or Post Graduate qualification in English medium 10 marks
(ii) A diploma course not less than one year (not less than 1500 hours) conducted by a 08 marks
Government Institution or Institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission
(iii) A certificate course not more than one year and not less than 06 months (not less 06 marks
than 720 hours) conducted by a Government Institution or Institution recognized by
the University Grant Commission
(iv) A certificate course not more than 06 months and not less than 03 months (not 05 marks
less than 360 hours) conducted by a Government Institution or Institution
recognized by the University Grants Commission
(g) Display of Skills at the Interview : Maximum Marks 05
For displaying skills of communication and presentation at the interview
–––––––––––––––––
Total
Maximum Marks 100
07. Submission of Applications.– Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen form annexed herewith should be sent
by registered post to reach the Auditor General, Auditor General's Department, No. 306/72, Polduwa Road, Battaramulla on or before as
follows :
Local Applications : 18th March 2015
Foreign Applications : 25th March 2015
The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application should bear clearly the words "Direct Recruitment to the Class
II Grade II of Sri Lanka Audit Service - 2014(2015)".

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
241
Appilcants who are in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service
should send their applications through their Heads of Departments.
A Copy of the application should be sent to the Auditor General
directly, before the closing date.
Applications and any other communication relating thereto should
be adderssed to the Auditor General and not personally to any officer
in the Department.
Note : No allegation that an application has been lost or delayed
in the post will be considered. Applicants who delay their
applications until the last day will do so at their own risk.
08. Applications will be acknowledged within three weeks from
the closing date. If not, it should be immediately notified to the
Auditor General, Auditor General's Department, No. 306/72, Polduwa
Road, Battaramulla.
09. Applicants will be required to produce any or all of the
following documents when called upon to do so :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Certificates of professional and other qualifications,
(iii) Two recent character certificates,
(iv) Certificates of highest examinations passed in Sinhala/
Tamil or English.
(v) Information on whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent
or by registration.
10. This appointment will be subjected to the Procedural Rules
of the Public Service Commission, Circulars that may be issued by
the Government from time to time and the Service Minute of Sri
Lanka Audit Service and the subsequent amendments made thereto.
11. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the interview.
If any of the particulars furnsihed by the candidate is found to be
false within his knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed a
material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
12. The decision either for filling or not filling all or part of the
vacancies will be made by the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
W. P. C. W
ICKRAMARATNE,
Auditor General (Actg.).
Auditor General's Department,
No. 306/72,
Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
05th February, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
A
UDITOR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
POSTS OF SUPERINTENDENT OF AUDIT OF CLASS II GRADE II OF THE
SRI LANKA AUDIT SERVICE DIRECT RECRUITMENT - 2014(2015)
(For office use only)
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Ms. :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Contact No. :
03. NIC No. :
04. ( a) Sex :–––––––––––.
(b) Marital Status :–––––––––––.
05. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age on 20th February 2015 :
Years :–––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days :–––––––.
06. (i) Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent :–––––––––.
or by registration :–––––––––––.
(ii) Race :–––––––––––.
Sinhalese/Tamil/Indian Tamil/Muslim
07. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
Institution Qualifications Date of
Achieved Achievement
.............................. .......................... ......................
.............................. .......................... ......................
.............................. .......................... ......................
.............................. .......................... ......................
.............................. .......................... ......................
.............................. .......................... ......................
08. Details of the Present Post :
(a) Post :–––––––––––.
(b) Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(c) Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
(d) Whether permanent, pensionable, temporary or on contract
basis :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
242
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
(e) Whether confirmed in the Post :–––––––––––.
(f) Annual Salary Scale :–––––––––––.
(g) Present Annual Salary :–––––––––––.
09. Highest examination passed :–––––––––––.
Sinhala :–––––––––––.
Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.
10. Names and Addresses of two referees :
(i) .................................... (ii) ..................................
.................................... ..................................
.................................... ..................................
.................................... ..................................
11. Other particulars, if any :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application
by me are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before appointment,
I am liable to be disqualified and if found after appointment, I am
liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. Attestation of Signature of the Applicant :
I am hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms....................................... is
known to me personally, placed his/her signature in my presence on
....................... 2015.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Place :–––––––––––.
Full name of Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
13. Cerficiate of the Head of the Department, if the candidate is
employed in Government/Provincial Government Service :
I hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms.
.............................. who submits this application is serving in this
office from ....................... and that his/her work and conduct are
always satisfactory and that he/she has been confirmed in the service
and I personally checked all the information furnished in 08 above
with the records available in this office and found correct and he/she
signed in my presence on ..................... 2015.
–––––––––––––––––
The signature of the Head of the Government/
Provincial Government Institution or his
Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
02–648
MINISTRY  OF  WOMEN'S   AFFAIRS
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Women Development
Officers of Ministry of Women's Affairs - 2014(2015)
FIRST Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Ministry of
Women's Affairs will be held on Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in the month of June 2015.
The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 16th March
2015.
02. Scheme of Examination.– Efficiency Bar Examination will
consist of following subjects. Examination will be held stricty in
Sinhala, Tamil and English Media. It is not allowed to change the
medium of language applied by the candidate consequently.
Subject No. 1 : Financial Regulations/ Duration - 01 hour
Office systems and Marks - 100
Procedure
Subject No. 2 : Gender and Women's Marks - 100
Rights
Subject No. 3 : Social Science and Marks - 100
Psychological
Counseling
Note :
(a) Officer may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion.
(b) They should score at least 40% of the total marks
allocated for each subject for a pass.
(c) Every paper consists of compulsory questions.
03. Subjects :
01. Part A - Financial Regulations
Public Management Systems in Sri Lanka.
Financial Control and Annual Estimation

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
243
(Except X Chapter in Section 1 in Financial
Regulation of the Government of Sri Lanka).
Part B - Office systems and Procedure
Regulations in Establishment Code
Following Chapters in Establishment Code are
covered. (I, II, IV , V , VII, IX, XII, XV , XXIII,
XXVI, XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII)
03.02. Gender and Women's Rights :
- Discrimination against women
- Gender in Sri Lankan Society
- Women's Charter and women's rights.
03.03. Social Science and psychological counseling :
- Rural Social Science
- Urbanization of Sri Lanka
- Rural Development
- Fundamentals and ethics in psycho counseling and
Woman and Mental disorder
- Counseling in Sri Lanka and counseling opportunities.
04. A specimen application for this examination is pubilshed at
the end of this notification.
The application for this examination should be in the form of the
specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate him/herself. Application should be prepared using paper
of A4 size (21x29cm) (normal half sheet) in such away that, No. 01-
06 appear on the first page and other section on the second page.
Application form should be perfected by the hand written of
candidate.
It is essential to mention the name of examination in English
language as well, in application with a Sinhala title the title should be
indicated in English language and in the appilcation with a Tamil title
the title should be indicated in English language.
05. The duly filled applications should be sent by registered post
to reach the address of Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination
Branch, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo before 27.02.2015.
Through Heads of Department (Divisional Secretary in Divisional
Secretariats) The name of the examination should be clearly indicated
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the applications.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected. Officers
who are new entrants for the purpose of Official Language Policy
should prepare and fill their applications in the official language
itself.
06. (i) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged a
notice shall be published in the newspapers by
Department of Examinations as soon as Admission card
are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to inform the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. When informing your full name, address,
NIC and the name of the examination shall be indicated.
It would be advisable for candidates outside Colombo
to fax a letter of request along with fax number to the
candidate to the Department of Examination of Sri Lanka
through the fax number mentioned in the notification
for sending a copy of the admission.
(ii) Candidate should get their signature on the admission
card attested in advance surrender to the supervisor of
the examination hall.
(iii) Issuance of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
07. ldentity .– Candidates should prove their identity at the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each they
offer. For this proposes any of the following documents will be
accepted.
(i) National Identity Card,
(ii) V alid passport.
08. Examination fees.– The examination fees will be charged as
mentioned below.
Examination fees :
(a) Candidates appearing for examination for the first time
need not to pay the examination fees.
(b) For the whole examination Rs. 400
(c) Per subject Rs. 200
This examination fees should be paid in case at any District or
Divisional Secretariat, to be credited Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
Commissioner General of Examination. The receipt received in the
name of applicant should be affixed by one margin in the relevant
cage of the application. The fee is not to refundable and not be
transferable to any other Examination.
09. (i) All candidates are bound to comply with the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
examination with regard to the conducting of this
Examination. Candidates will be subjected to the
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination for violations of these rules and regulations.
(ii) Final report of results obtained at the examination will
be handed over by the will be handed over by the
Secretary, Ministry of Women's Affairs.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
244
10. Duty leave will be granted by the Heads of Departments to
all candidates who have been with admission card by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
11. Secretary, Ministry of Women's Affairs will take decisions on
any condition not mentioned in this notification.
Secretary,
Ministry of Women's Affairs.
Ministry of Women's Affairs,
5th Floor,
Sethsiripaya, 2nd Stage,
Battaramulla.
APPLICATION FORM
(For office use only)
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR WOMEN DEVELOPMENT
OFFICERS OF THE MINISTRY OF WOMEN'S AFFAIRS - 2014(2015)
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials indicating initials at the end (in block
capitals) :––––––––––––.
(Eg. : GUNEW ARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.)
1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala, Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals letters)
2.1 Official Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/in Tamil)
2.2 Address to which admission card to be posted :––––––––.
(English block capitals letters)
2.3 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
03. Gender :
3.1 Female - 1
Male - 0
3.2 Marital Status :
Married - 1
Single - 2
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 16.03.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Date of appointment for the post of Women Development Officer
in the Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs :
––––––––––––.
05. Are you an old entrant to Official Language policy objectives :
––––––––––––.
If not a new entrants :––––––––––––.
06. Name of the Department (if it is a Divisional Secretariat, name
of that Divisional Secretariat) :––––––––––––.
07. Subjects and numbers subjected to paragraph No. 02(f) in Gazette
Notification :
Subject Subject No.
01.
02.
03.
08. If this first attempt of this examination ? :––––––––––––.
09. Description of receipt paid for the examination :
(i) Name of the Divisional Secretariat which you have paid :
––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date when you have paid :
The receipt should be affixed here. It will be advisable to
keep a copy of the receipt with you.
10. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that I any particulars
given in the application are found to be incorrect prior to my
selection, I am liable to be disqualification and if it is found after
the selections, I am liable to be dismissed without any
compensations. Further I hereby declare that I will be subjected
to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination and issue of results.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note.– Applicant should be signed in the presence of the Head of
Department or the officer attesting.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.02.2015
245
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Attachment of the Applicant's Signature
I do hereby certify the applicant Mr./Miss/Mrs. .......................... is known to be personally and he/she placed his/her signature before
me on ....................... 2014.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the information furnished by applicants is accurate, he/she has affixed the receipt received upon the pay ment for
examination fee for the examination and he/she is sitting for this examination for the first time.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department and official stamp.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
02–525