

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2014
wxl 1851$31 - 2014 fmnrjdß ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'02'28
No. 1851/31  - FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY  28, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A
LDB : 123/48 (iii).
THE  MEDICAL  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER 105)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health with the consultation of the Sri Lanka Medical Council under Section 72 read
with section 19(c) of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105) and approved by the Parliament.
MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,
Minister of Health.
Colombo,
 26th February, 2014.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Sri Lanka Medical Council (Appointment of Registrar) Regulations,
No. 01 of  2014.
2. Upon the Office of the Registrar becomes vacant, the Sri Lanka Medical Council (hereinafter referred to as the
“Medical Council”) shall invite applications from the persons who have qualifications specified in regulation 3 of
these regulations by an advertisement published in a daily news paper in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
3. (1)  Every applicant who applies in accordance with the newspaper advertisement published under regulation
2 shall -
(a) be a holder of a degree of Bachelor of Medicine; Preference shall be given to any person who
holds postgraduate qualification on any related field of Medicine;
(b) have at least twenty years of experience as a Medical Officer in the public sector; out of twenty
years’ experience he shall have at least five years of experience in the administrative field; and
(c) be not less than forty five years of age on the date of appointment

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2014
(2) Every person appointed to the Office of the Registrar shall be a person with good moral character and
clean career track records.
(3) Any person appointed to the Office of the Registrar shall not have any conflict of interests with the
duties of the Office of the Registrar and activities of the Medical Council or has not been convicted for
any criminal offence by a Court of Law or penalized for any professional misconduct by the Medical
Council.
4. (1) The selection shall be made through a structured interview by an interview Board Comprising the President
of the Medical Council who shall be the Chairman of the Interview Board, the Director-General of Health
Services, two members of the Medical Council nominated by such Medical Council and a person nominated
by the Minister.
(2) The Interview Board shall recommend the most suitable applicant to the Medical Council to be appointed
as the Registrar.
5.   The duties and functions of the Registrar shall be –
(a) to act as the Secretary to the Medical Council ;
(b) to manage affairs of the Medical Council and issue notices and to carry out all correspondence
work on behalf of the Medical Council;
(c) to act as the Treasurer of the Medical Council until such time the Medical Council appoints a new
Treasurer;
(d) to keep the Registers of Medical Officers; Dentists, Midwives and Pharmacists in terms of the
Medical Ordinance;
(e) to convene meetings of the Medical Council and to record and maintain minutes of the proceedings
thereof;
(f) to execute all administrative decisions of the Medical Council including the decisions of  disciplinary
control over the staff of the Medical Council; and
(g) to do all such other duties as may assigned to him by the Medical Council
6. The Registrar appointed under these regulations shall hold officer for a period of three years unless he resigns
or vacates earlier and may be re-appointed for a second term. However no person shall hold office as a Registrar
for more than 6 (Six) years (two terms).
7.  Any payment of Salary or other emoluments shall be determined by the Medical Council subject to the
approval of the Minister in consultation of Minister incharge of the subject of Finance.
8.  The Registrar appointed under these regulations may be suspended or removed for grave dereliction of duty
or any serious misconduct or incapacity after giving an opportunity of being heard.
9. The Office of the Registrar shall become vacant –
(a) upon the attainment of age of sixty or upon completion of the period pertaining to the post;
(b) upon his death;
(c) on his resignation in writing addressed to the President of the Medical Council; or
(d) upon the removal by the Medical Council.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2014
10. For the purposes of these Regulations –
“Medical Council” means the Sri Lanka Medical Council established under section 12 of the Medical Ordinance
(Chapter 105);
    and
“Minister” means Minister assigned for the subject of Health
11. The Chapter 9 of the Standing Orders of the Sri Lanka Medical Council published in Ceylon Government
Gazette No. 7727 of August 9, 1929 is hereby rescinded.
03-338
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.