

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1836$6 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ ui 11 jeks i÷od - 2013'11'11
No. 1836/6  - MONDAY ,  NOVEMBER  11,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
MINUTE  OF  SRI  LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE
THE following Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service is hereby published to be effective from 01st January 2006 without
prejudice to any action taken in terms of the Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 296/2 dated 07th May 1984 and revisions made to the same from time to
time.
On the order for Public Service Commission.
T. M. L. C. S
ENARATHNA,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
1. Name : The Service Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service
Effective Date : 01.01.2006.
2. Particulars of the Appointing Authority
2.1 Appointing authority : Public Service Commission.
3. Particulars of the Officer category
3.1 Officer Category - Senior Executive
Executive
3.2 Grades - Executive - Grade III
Executive - Grade II
Executive - Grade I
Senior Executive - Special Grade
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
6 — G  18517

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
2A
3.3 General defination of the role entrusted to :
Implementation of the processes of investigation, planning, designing, construction,maintenance, operations,
research and other sequential tasks in accordance with the recognized principles of engineering with
professional responsibility which are relevant to the role of engineering entrusted to the  Head of the
Department and the management of guildelines and strategies relevant to them shall be performed by the
holders of posts in Engineering Service.
4. Nature of the Post : Permanent and Pensionable
5. Salaries :
5.1 Salary Code Number : Senior Executive - SL-3-2006
Executive - SL-1-2006
5.2 Salary Scale :
Senior Executive - SL - 3 - 2006 - Rs. 42,390 - 12 x 1310 Rs. 58,110/-
Executive - SL-1-2006-Rs. 22935-10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1050 - Rs. 53,555/-
5.3 Initial salary step applicable to grading system :
Grade Initial salary step Salary point (Rs.)
Grade III 1 (SL - 1 - 2006) Rs. 22,935/-
Grade II 12 (SL - 1 -2006) Rs. 30,175/-
Grade I 20 (SL - 1- 2006) Rs. 36,755/-
Special Grade 1 (SL - 3- 2006) Rs. 42,390/-
5.4 When an officer has possessed full professional qualifications (Status of Chartered Engineer) at the time of
recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineers' Service or when such officer possesses full professional
qualifications after the recruitment, he/she shall be placed on the sixth (06) salary step to Grade III.
6. Posts belonging to officer category :
6.1 Approved grades, posts and number of posts of the service and the tasks assigned to them :
Grade III 1121 Preparation of Engineering Guidelines and Strategies which are relevant
to achieve the objectives of the Institution in relation to the scope of
Engineering assigned to the institution, making, implementation,
direction, evaluation, supervision and management at middle level of
policies/strategies/plans/programmes/projects for the development of
for social and economic development.
Grade I 187 Preparation of Engineering Guidelines and Strategies which are relevant
to achieve the objectives of the Institution in relation to the scope of
Engineering assigned to the institution, making,
implementation,direction, evaluation supervision and management at
national level of  policies/strategies/plans/programmes/projects for social
and economic development.
Grade II
Special
Grade
23
Grade
Number of
Approved
Posts
Tasks

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
3A
6.2. Posts belonging to the service are mentioned in Appendix 1.
Combined number of officers in Grade I, II and III as per Appendix  1 = 1308
Specials Grade = 23
Note : This cadre may be varied from time to time according to the requirements of public service.
7. Method of recruitment Ratio of recruitment to Grade III
7.1. Ratio of recruitment to Grade III
Stream Percentage
1. Recruitment under open stream - (Only for Engineers who 75% of the existing vacancies
possess professional qualifications) in service
2. Recruitment under limited stream 25% of the existing vacancies
in service
7.1.1 Only Engineers who have possessed their education and professional qualifications in the relevant
stream are recruited under the open stream.
7.2. Recruitment under open stream :
7.2.1 Only engineers who posses professional qualification in the relevant stream are recruited under the
open stream ;
7.2.2 Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall be considered as "the Grade of recruitment" and all the
recruitments mentioned in Shchedule I under each "service category" shall be made only as per the
conditions, qualifications and procedure stipulated in this minute.
7.2.3 Qualifications :
7.2.3.1. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Shall have completed and possessed the fulltime BSc degree in Engineering (4 years)
under a stream determined for recruitment from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission and The Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
Or
(ii) Shall have completed all educational and other requirements recognized by the University
Grants Commission and The Instution of Engineers Sri Lanka as a qualification equivalent
to the degree mentioned in 7.2.3.1. (i) and obtained a valid certificate.
7.2.3.2. Professional Qualifications :
(i) Shall have obtained a valid certificate from The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka to the
effect that the officer has satisfied the qualifications for obtaining associate membership
possessing all educational requirements.
7.2.3.3. Other :
(i) The candidate shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Physical fitness : All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in
any part of the island and to perform the duties of the post ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
4A
(iii) Candidates shall be of excellent character ;
(iv) The subjects in the detalied academic transcripts used for issuance of the certificates
which are relevant to the qualificatios stipulated in above 7.2.3.1. shall be according to all
the aspects with the requirements of the service categories ;
(v) No person who is ordained in any religious order shall become qualified for making
applications
(vi) An officer who has completed qualifications mentioned from 7.2.3.3. (i) to 7.2.3.2. (v)
above and serves in Public/Provincial Public Service as a Technical Officer defined under
Sub-section 14 (xi) shall have been confirmed in the service and have completed a
satisfactory service of 5 years immediately preceding the closing date of applications ;
(vii) All the qualifications and conditions required for recruitment to the service shall have
been satisfied each and every way as at the date mentioned in the Gazette Notification
published for calling of applications.
7.2.4. Age :
7.2.4.1. Shall not be less than 21years and not more than 35 years of age.
7.2.4.2. The maximum age limit for the Technical Officers who are qualified under 7.2.3.3. (vii) above
shall be 45 years. (This qualification shall be applicable only for the officers who are in service
up to the date of publishing this service minute.).
7.2.5. Method of recruitment :
7.2.5.1. Recruitment shall be made on the results of a written test. (Shedule II)
7.2.5.1.1. Conducting Authority : Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.2.5.2. General  interview.- marks shall not be allocated. Vertification of qualifications mentioned in Sri
Lanka Engineering Service Minute and the Gazette Notification published in accordance with
the said minute and testing the physical fitness.
7.2.5.2.1. Applicants are called for the interview according to the order of the marks obtained
at the written test.
7.2.5.2.2. Appointing authority of the interview board.- Public Service Commission.
7.2.6. Method of calling applications :
By publishing a notice in the Government Gazette. In addition, it shall be published in the web site.
7.3. Limited recruitment :
7.3.1 When a Technical Officer defined under Sub-section 14(xi) of this minute is granted promotion to Grade
I or Special Grade of his service, he shall satisfy following conditions and qualifications each and every
way in order to posses qualifications for recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Enginering Service by a
letter of appointment. Such office shall never be exempted from the requirement of fulfilling one or
several of such requirements.
7.3.1.1. Terms and conditions :
(i) The officer shall be in public service/provincial public service at the time of making
application ;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
5A
(ii) Action shall not have been taken to send any appointee on retirement from Public Service/
Provincial Public Service as at the effective date of appointment determined by the Public
Service Commission ;
(iii) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period immediately preceding the 05 years as
at the date mentioned in the Gazette Notification by which the qualifications shall be
satisfied ;
(iv) It is compulsory to have served continuously as an Engineering Assistant at the Irrigation
Department when applying for the posts in Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service
which fall vacant in the said Department ;
(v) It is compulsory to have served continuously as an officer holding a post of Supervising
Manager at the Department of Railway when applying for the posts in Sri Lanka Engineering
Service which fall vacant in the said Department.
7.3.1.2. Qualifications :
One of the following qualifications shall have been satisfied as at the date mentioned in the
Gazette Notification by which the qualifications shall be satisfied :
(i) Shall have completed a service of not less than 15 years as an officer belonging to
Engineering Assistants' Service of the Department of Irrigation and at least 5 years from
the above shall be after promotion to Grade I and further shall have passed the Senior
Technical Examination conducted by the Commissioner General of     Examinations ;
(ii) An officer serving in a post of Supervising Manager of the Department of Railway shall
have completed a service of not less than 15 years in the Department. A period of at least
5 years of the above shall be after promotion to Grade I of the service ;
(iii) Shall have possessed a service of not less than 15 years as a Technical Officers in Sri
Lanka Technological Service and at least 5 years from the above shall be after promotion
to Grade I and futher shall have fully passed the 3rd examination (Service Minute 1979)
conducted for Government Technical Officers by the Commissioner General of
Examinations ;
(iv) Shall have possessed a service of not less than 21 years as a Technical Officers in Sri
Lanka Technological Service, been promoted to Special Grade of the service and served 5
years in Grade I of the service. Further, shall have fully passed the 2nd examination
(Service Minute 1979) conducted for Government Technical Officers by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
7.3.1.3. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Selection shall be made based on the order of marks allocated on seniority and merit by an
interview board in accordance with the marking scheme approved by the Public Service
Commission ;
(ii) At the occasions where officers are recruited to Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service
under limited recruitment through a letter of appointment, their service categories shall be
determined as mentioned in Schedule I.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
6A
8. Efficiency Bar
8.1. Efficiency Bar :
8.1.1. An Officer appointed to Grade III, shall pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination before lapse of 03
years ;
8.1.2. The Efficiency Bar Examination shall be held twice a year ;
8.1.3. Examinations related to Efficiency Bars are stated in schedule III ;
8.1.4. The efficiency bar examination shall be held either by Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
or an institution or authority authorized by Public Service Commission.
9. Official Language Proficiency :
Language P roficiency to be acquired
(i) Official Language Officers who were recruited in a language medium other than an
official language shall acquire proficiency in one official language
during the probation period
(ii) Other Official Language Shall acquire proficiency at required level as per the provisions in
Public Administration Circular 07/2007 and circulars consequential.
(iii). The language medium for entering Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall be the language medium in
which the four year fulltime Bachelor of Science Degree Course at a State University of Sri Lanka that
is recognized by the University Grants Commission and also recognized as the qualifacation for
registraion to obtain the associate membership of The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka, is conducted.
10. Grade Promotions
10.1. Promotion from Grade III to Grade II :
10.1.1. Under average performance :
10.1.1.1. Qualifications to be satisfied :
(i) Shall have been issued a letter of confirmation in the post, and confirmed in the
appointment in Grade III ;
(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10)
years in Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary   increments ;
(iii) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination as at the prescribed date ;
(iv) Shall have obtained the proficiency in other official language at the relevant level ;
(v) Shall have completed a satisfactory period of service of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion ;
(vi) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten
(10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure ;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
7A
(vii) Shall have obtained full membership of "The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka" or full
membership (Status of Chartered Engineer) of an institution of engineers recognized
by the "The Institution of Engineers of Sri Lanka". It is not sufficient to obtain the
status of Chartered Engineer, but it is required to maintain that status continuously.
10.1.1.2. Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to the appointing
authority as per the relevant form, the promotion to Grade II shall be made by the appointing
authority, to be effective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications after
verifying the qualifications.
10.2. Promotion from Grade II to Grade I :
10.2.1. Qualifications to be satisfied :
(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of seven (07) years in Grade II
of the service category and earned prescribed seven (07) salary increments ;
(ii) Shall have completed a satisfactory period of service within five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of satisfying qualification for the promotion ;
(iii) Shall have proved performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of seven (07)
years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per apporved performance appraisal ;
(iv) Shall have continually maintained  the full membership of "The Institution of Engineers Sri
Lanka" or full membership (Chartered Engineer) of any institution of engineers recognized by
the "The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka".
10.2.2. Method of Promotion :
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to appointing authority
as per the relevant form, the promotion to Grade I shall be made by the appointing authority, to be
effective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications after verifying the qualifications.
10.3. Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade :
10.3.1. Qualifications to be satisfied :
(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of five (05) years in Grade I of
Sri Lanka Engineering Service and have obtained five (05) salary increments after being promoted
to Grade I ;
(ii) Shall have completed active period of service not less than 18 years in Sri Lanka Engineering
Service as at the date of satisfying qualification for the promotion ;
(iii) Shall have proved annual performance at satisfactory or above level during the period of 05
years immediately preceding the date of qualifying for the promotion ;
(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory period of service within five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of satisfying qualification for the promotion and not being subjected to any Disciplinary
punishment ;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
8A
(v) ( a) Shall have obtained fellow membership of "The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka" or
obtained a similar fellow membership of an institution of engineers recognized by the "The
Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka". It is a compulsory requirement to obtain the fellow
membership in the field that the states of Chartered Engineer was obtained and continued
the fellow membership ;
or
(b) Shall have completed Post Graduate Diploma/Post Graduate Qualifications that contains
course duration of not less than 09 months, in the field of Engineering or obtain a Post
Graduate Degree Certificate in the field of Management and Business Administration and
continued of the status of Chartered Engineer.
10.3.2. Method of Promotion
Officers who have satisfied the required qualifications shall be interviewed by an interview board
approved by the Public Service Commission and promotion to Special Grade shall be made by the
Public Service Commission considering the seniority and merit and depending on the existing number
of vacancies.
11. Appointment to post
11.1. When appointing officers to posts of the service, appointments are made in the following manner, so as not
to cause any prejudice to the officers.
11.2. Qualification :
Post Qualification
Approved posts in Grade III Should be an officer of Sri Lanka Engineering Service
Approved posts in Grade II Should be an officer of Grade II or higher grade of the Sri Lanka
Engineering Service
Approved posts in Grade I S hould be an officer of Grader I of Sri Lanka Engineering Service
Approved posts in Special Grade Should be an officer of Special Grade of Sri Lanka Engineering
Service
11.3 Method of Selection :
(a) Approved posts in Grade III.— Officers of Sri Lanka Engineerng Service shall be appointed ;
(b) Approved posts in Grade II.— Appointment to the approved post in Grade II shall be made based on the
seniority of officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service ;
(c) Approved posts in Grade I.— Appointment shall be made to the posts of the seniority of the relevant
field. Recommendations shall be obtained from an interview board approved by the administrative
authority of the service when appointments are made to the posts which are opened for several service
categoreis ;
(d) Approved posts in Special Grade .— Appointment shall be made by the Public Services Commission on
the recommendation of an approved interview board based on the seniority and the special knowledge
or expertise on engineering subject of the officers in special grade.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
9A
12. General conditions stipulated in procedural rules of the Public Services Commission published in the Gazette Extra
Ordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1589/30 date 20.02.2009 and other conditions of the
Establishments Code for each appointment. Conditions other than the conditions in the above are as follows :
12.1. All the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall be subjectd to serve also in the Provincial Public
Service. For this purpose they can be released temporarily to serve in the post of provincial public service.
The term of such release shall be determined with the concurrence between provincial authority and appointing
authority based on exigency of service, the requirement of engaging staff and other relevant matters :
(a) A letter of appointment subject to the conditions for release from service shall be issued to the relevant
officer by provincial authority. Such officer shall be subjectd to be transferred within the province by
provincial authority ;
(b) The officers released in the above manner shall be subjectd to the administration and disciplinary
control of the Public Service Commission even within the term of release ;
(c) Such officers shall be reverted to their substantial service at the expiry of the period of release for
provincial public service.
12.2. Skill development and training for status of Chartered Engineer :
(a) A short term in service training shall be provided to new appintees. This training shall be a course
consists of subjects such as Procurement guidelines, Management of constructions, Mangement of
Industries, Professional and  Industrial Security, Establishments Procedure, Establishment regulations
and Financial Regulation ;
(b) Obtaining full professional qualification (Status of Chartered Engineer) and maintaining that status
without interruption shall be a compulsory requirement for all grade promotions beyond Grade II of Sri
Lanka Engineering Service and therefore, it is the responsibility of an engineer processing professional
qualifications to obtain and maintain above qualifications. In otder to obtain full professional qualification
an engineer shall complete a training of 12 months in Engineering Desings (at two occasions of which
the minimum duration is six months in each) within four years from the date of appointment at an
approved institution under a Chartered Engineer. The Head of the Institution shall be responsible to
making opportunities for the officers for such training.
13. Effective Date.— This Sri Lanka Engineering Service minute shall come in to effect from 01.01.2006.
14. Definitions :
(i) The term "Gazette" shall mean the Gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) The term "Service Minute" shall mean the Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service ;
(iii) The term "Service" shall mean Sri Lanka Engineering Service ;
(iv) The term "Effective Date" shall mean the date on which this minute comes in to effect ;
(v) The term "Public Services Commission" shall mean the Public Services Commissioin appointed as per article
54 of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Public Services Commission shall be
the appointing authority ;
(vi) The term "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Ministry in charge of subject of Public Administration
and Home affairs ;
(vii) The term "Subject Stream of Engineering" shall mean the fields of Engineering such as Civil, Mechanical (or
Production), Electrical, Electronic and Chemical indicated under special academic streams within field of
engineering. Provisions shall be made by this minute to include other engineering streams on exigency of
service ;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
10A
(viii) The term "Service Categories" shall mean the different service categories prepared analyzing properly
within Sri Lanka Engineering Service so as to suit to Engineering Stream and as well as the requirement of
Public Service. The "name of category" of each service category, a different "category number of service"
and the "streams" corresponding to them are mentioned in schedule I ;
(ix) The term "The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka" or "IESL" shall mean the Institution of Engineers' Sri
Lanka which was established under Act No. 17 of 1968 ;
(x) The term "Satisfactory Period of Service" shall mean period of service during which all increments have been
earned on due date and not being subjected to any punishment under disciplinary inquiry for any offence,
(except warning) during such period, as per Procedural Rules 186 of Public Services Commission ;
(xi) The term "Technical Officer" shall mean an Engineering Assistant belonging to Engineering Assistants'
Service of the Department of Irrigation (earlier Technical Assistant) or an officer holding the post of
Supervising Manager of the Department of Railways or a  Technical Officer belonging to Sri Lanka
Technological Service and serving in Public/Provincial Public Service and possesing qualifications approved
by the appointing authority ;
(xii) The term "Professional Qualifications" shall mean possession of educational qualifications mentioned in
Sub-section 7:2:3:1 (ii) and 7:2:3:2 (i) by which The Institution of Engineers Sri Lanka confirms that all the
requirements for Associate Membership have been duly satisfied ;
(xiii) The "Full Professional Qualification" shall mean possession of corporate membership of Insitution of
Engineers Sri Lanka satisfying all requirements each and every way which have been prescribed by IESL or
any other Engineering institution recognized by IESL for obtaining the status of Chartered Engineer by an
engineer with professional qualifications and maintaining such status without interruption ;
(xiv) The term "Active Period of Servie" shall mean the period during which the officer actually engaged in duties
entrusted receiving the salary entitled to the post. All periods of No-Pay leave, except maternity leave
approved by the government are not calculated for active service period.
15. When recruitments are made to Grade III of the service, the number of vacancies which exist as at 30 June of
relevant year shall be the number of persons which should be recruited.
16. Recruitment to service, Grade Promotions and Change of Service Categories :
16.1. The conditions, terms or the recruitment procedures mentioned in this service minute can no way be made
relevant to any condition, term or  recruitment procedure of any other service minute ;
16.2. Seniority of the officers in Grade III shall no way be influenced by the provision of salary increments or
placing on salary step as per Sub-section 5.4. in this service minute ;
16.3. An officer in Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service can be temporarily transfered into another service
category from one service category within the engineering stream he/she belongs to. When a transfer is
done to a service category from another service category on permanent basis it can be done only on his/her
concurrence
16.4. The service category in which the officer Grade III was serving at the time of promotion to Grade II shall be
treated as the permanent service category of the officer even after the promotion ;
16.5 An engineer without professional qualifications who is recruited to Grade III under limited recruitments
should complete the qualifications mentioned in 7.2.3.1 and 7.2.3.2 and the requirements mentioned in 10.1.1,
to be promoted into Grade II.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
11A
17. Authority of Appointing to a Post
Recruitment to all the posts in the service except the posts in special grade and head of department should be done
by the administrative authority authorized by the Public Service Commission.
18. Option of retirement
An officer in the service who has not reached the optional age of retirement on the effective date shall be given the
opportunity of exercising the option of retirement under Section No. 7 of the Pensions Minute on a request made
by him/her. The officer can exercise the option within five years from the date of publicizing the service minute,
only if the Public Service Commission considers that the officer has been affected adversely by the provisions of
this minute to provide such a relief.
19. Absorption of officers who are in service to the new grading system of the restructured service.
19.1. Absorption of the officers in service as at the effective date to restructured Sri Lanka Engineering Service
shall be done as follows ;
19.1.1. Officers mentioned below who are in Grade II/II as at the effective date shall be abosrbed into Grade
III under the new minute :
(a) Officers in Grade II of Class II of the service as at the effective date but have not completed a
service period of ten (10) years ;
(b) Officers who have completed a service period of  ten (10) years in Grade II of Class II of the
service as at the effective date but have not fulfilled qualifications to be promoted into Grade I
of Class II as per the previous service minute.
19.1.2. Officers mentioned below who are in Grade II/I as at the effective date shall be absorbed into Grade
II under the new minute :
(a) Officers in Grade I of Class II in the service as at the effective date and have not completed a
service period of seven (07) years in Grade I of Class II ;
(b) Officers who are in Grade I of Class II as at effective date and have completed seven (07) years
of service period in Grade I of Class II, but have not fulfilled the quaifications required to be
promoted to Class I as per the previous service minute ;
(c) Officers who have completed all the qualifications required to be promoted to Grade I of Class II
as at the effective date of this service minute but have not been promoted to Grade II/I.
19.1.3. Officers mentioned below who are in Class I as at effective date shall be absorbed into Grade I under
this service minute :
(a) Officers who are in Class I of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service as at the effective date.
19.1.4. Absorption into Special Grade in the service
(a) Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service who have been promoted to Special Grade and completed
the requirements and qualifications mentioned in 10.3 of the service minute shall be absorbed
into special grade under this service minute.
19.2. The seniority of the officers shall not be affected adversely in any way due to the absorption.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
12A
19.3 Salary of the officers on the absorption into the service.
(a) No change shall be made either on salary or increment date of an officer in Class II Grade II, Class II Grade
I and Class I under the service minute existed as at the efffective date of the new service minute shall not
be changed due to their absorption to Grade III, II and I respectively.
20. Interim Period and Promotions
20.1. The interim period shall be effective from 01.01.2006 to 01.01.2016. During the priod the promotions of
officers who satisfy following qualifications and requirements shall be made as follows.
20.1.1. Promotion to Grade II of the Service
(i) An officer who joined the service before 01.01.2006 and has been absorbed into Grade III of the
service shall be promoted to Grade II during the interim period to be effective from the date he/
she completes all the qualifications and requirments which are to be fulfilled in order to get
promotions from Grade II of Class II to Grade I in Class II as mentioned in the Minute of Sri Lanka
Engineering Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 509/7 dated 07.06.1988 and
relevant revisions.
20.1.2. Promotion to Grade I of the Service
(i) Officers who joined the service before 01.01.2006 and have been absorbed into Grade II or have
been promoted to Grade II during the iterim period, shall be promoted into Grade I, if they
complete following qualifications and requirements in every aspect during the interim period to
be effective from the date of completion :
(a) Shall have earned all salary increments in the immediately preceding 05 years ;
(b) Shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment in immediately preceding 05
years ;
(c) Shall have maintained the status of chartered engineer from the date of promotion to
Grade II ;
20.1.3. Appointing to the Special Grade of the Service
(i) Appointing to the Special Grade during the interim period shall be done as mentioned in 10.3.1
of this service minute.
21. Matters not provided for
In addition to the requirements mentioned in this service minute, all the officers shall obtain prescribed skills and
proficiencies as decided by the Government from time to time. Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be
determined by the Public Services Commission.
In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
13A
Schedule I
Name of Number of Relevant Services
the Service the Service
Category Category
Civil 01 Infrastructure facilities related to buildings, Factory activities, Physical plans and
Urban Development
Civil 02 Highways and Road Devlopment
Civil 03 W ater resources, irrigation, drainage, lands, agriculture and agrarian services
Civil 04 Civil engineering activities related to Department of Railways
Civil 05 Marine, Fisheries and Coast Conservation
Civil 06 Civil Engineering activities of Local Government and Municipal Councils
Civil 07 All civil engineering activities of provincial councils
Mechanical 0 1 Mechanical engineering activities of the public intitutions excluding the public
institutions of Department of Raliway and Fisheries and Marine
Mechanical 02 Mechanical engineering activities related to department of railway
Mechanical 03 All mechanical engineering activities of local government and municipal councils
Mechanical 04 All mechanical engineering activities of provincial councils
Electrical 01 All heavy and light electrical engineering activities of the institutions of the central
government
Electrical 02 All heavy and light electrical engineering activities of all local government institutions
and municipal councils
Electrical 03 All heavy and light electrical engineering activities of all provincial councils
Chemical 01 Chemical engineering activities of all government departments and ministries
Schedule II
Objective and methodology of the written grading examination for direct recruitments
(a) This grading examination shall be conducted in order to determine the order of recuritment for Engineers
who have satisfied qualifications as per 7.2.3. above and apply for post of Engineer in Grade III of Sri Lanka
Engineering Service. Therefore, above examination shall be limited to a written aptitude test for which 100
marks is allocated. The question paper shall consist to question of multiple choice and the duration of the
paper shall be 1 1/2 hours. Order of recruitment shall be determined on the marks obtained by the candidates
at the examination ;
(b) This examination has been desinged with the objective of measuring the ability of candidate on critical
reasoning, the analytical power and the ability for decision making based on the knowledge obtained
through the study of Engineering Science mentioned in 7.2.3. above.
Schedule III
Syllabus for First Efficiency Bar of Officers appointed to Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service.
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall consist of following subjects.
1. A written test on administrtion
2. A written test on financial systems
3. A written test on department/establishment methodologies.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
14A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director I Civil 03 1
Deputy Director / Assistant Director II, III Mechanical 01 1
An officer can sit for all the subjects at one and the same sitting or at different sittings. The duration of each paper
shall be 3 hours.
Scheme of Examination :
Administration.— A question paper prepared in relation to functions of Engineers Service based on V olume 1 of the
Establihsments Code published in 1985 and all Chapters of V olume II of the Establishments Code published in 1999 and the
Procedural Rules of the Public Services Commission (subjected to timely revisions).
Financial Regulations.— A question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineers Service based on all
Chapters of Financial Regulations published in 1992 except Chapter IX and X and National Procurement Guidelines (subjected
to timely revisions).
Department/Establishments Methodologies .— A question paper prepared to test the knowledge of the officer on
the methodologies of the institution by the Head of the Department where the officer serves.
A written question paper of which duration is 3 hours shall be given for each test above and 100 marks shall be
allocated for each paper. Candidate shall secure minimum of 40 marks for a pass.
APPENDIX  I
1 Ministries
Ministry of Wildlife Conservation
Ministry of Construction, Engineering Services, Housing and Common Amenities
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Addl. Secretary (Technical) Special Grade Civil 01 1
Director (Construction & Technical) I Civil 01 1
Director (Engineering Services) I Civil 01 1
Director (USD) I Civil 01 1
Deputy Director / Asst. Director (Cons. & Tech) II, III Civil 01 1
Deputy Director / Asst. Director (Planning) II, III Civil 01 1
Civil 01 1
Deputy Director / Asst. Director (Engineering II, IIII
Services)
Deputy Director / Asst. Director (USD) II, III Civil 01 1

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
15A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Addl. Secretary (Technical) Special Grade All Category 1
Director (Technical) I All Category 1
Ministry of Defence and Urban Development
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director I All Civil Category 1
Deputy Director /  (Assistant Director) II, III All Civil Category 9
Ministry of Economic Development
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Chief Engineer (Construction) I Civil 01 1
Engineer  (Construction) II, III Civil 01 3
Ministry of Education
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineer - Buildings) I Civil 01 1
Engineer  (Mechanical) I, II, III Mechanical 01 3
Engineer (Electrical) II, III Eelct. 01 3
Engineer (Civil) I, II, III Civil 01 8
Ministry of Health
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Infrastructure) I Civil 01 1
Engineer  (Civil) II, III Civil 01 1
Ministry of Higher Education
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Additional Secretary (Development) Special Civil 03 1
Additional Secretary (Technical) Special Civil 03 1
Director I Civil 03 4
Engineer II, III Civil 03 2
Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources Management

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
16A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer I All Category 1
Engineer II, III Civil 01 3
Ministry of Justice
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
Ministry of Livestock & Rural Community Development
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director I All Civil Category 1
Deputy Director / Assistant Director II, III All Civil Category 2
Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Council
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Addl. Secretary Special Civil 02 1
Director I Civil 02 1
Engineer (Technical Audit) II, III Civil 02 1
Deputy Director / Assistant Director II, III Civil 02 3
Engineer (Maganeguma) II, III Civil 02 1
Ministry of Ports and Highways
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Technical) I All Category 1
Dy. Director / Asst. Director (Porcurement & II, III All Category 1
Engineering)
Ministry of Power and Energy
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Addl. Secretary Special Mechanical 02/ Civil 1
04/ Elect 01
Director I Mechanical 02/ Civil 1
04/ Elect 01
Ministry of Transport

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
17A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Additional Secretary Special All Civil Category 1
Director (Procurement) I All Civil Category 1
Dy. Director / Asst. Director (Development) II, III All Civil Category 1
Dy. Director / Asst. Director (Procurement) II, III All Civil Category 1
Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Infrastucture) I All Civil Category 1
Dy. Director / Asst. Director (Infrastucture) II, III All Civil Category 1
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineering Services) I All Category 1
Chief Engineer I Civil 01 1
Engineer II, III Civil 01 2
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III Civil 03 1
Ministry of Agriculture
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer III Civil 01 1
Ministry of Cultural and the Arts
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer (This post has been created as personal
to the officer subjected to create a post in
Technological Service after the period of
this officer.) II, III Civil 01 1
Ministry of Mass Media and Information
7 — G  18517

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
18A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Deputy Director / Assistant Director II, III Civil 01 1
Ministry of Telecommunication and Information Technology
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Chief Engineer (Civil) I Civil 01 1
Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 01 1
Ministry of Finance and Planning
2. Departments
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineering) I Civil 01 1
Engineer I, II, III Civil 03 12
Engineer (Mechanical) II, III M echanical - 01 1
Department of Agrarian Development
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Chief Engineer I Mechanical 01/Civil 1
03/Elect/01
Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 03 4
Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical  01 9
Enigneer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 01 1
Department of Agriculture
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
Department of Ayurveda
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director General Special Civil 01 1
Addl. Director General (Engineering services) Special Civil 01 1
Director (Technical and Development) I Civil 01 1
Department of Buildings

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
19A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineering Design) I Civil 01 1
Director (Construction) I Civil 01 2
Chief Engineer I Civil 01 13
Chief Engineer I Elect 01 1
Engineer II, III Civil 01 67
Engineer II, III Elect 01 2
Engineer II, III Mechanical 01 1
Department of Buildings (contd.)
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Chief Engineer I Civil 05 2
Mechanical Engineer II, III Mechanical 01 2
Civil Engineer II, III Civil 05 14
Department of Coast Conservation
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III All Civil Category 1
Department of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Factory Engineer I Mechanical 01 1
Deputy Factory Engineer I Mechanical 01 1
Manager (Works) I Mechanical 01 1
Manager (Logistic) I Mechanical 01 1
Manager (Marketing) I Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Elect/Mech) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Development/Projects) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Carpentry) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Craft and fabricating) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Foundry & Maintenance) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Vehicle) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Menager (Elect.) II, III Electrical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Supplies) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Training) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Deputy/Asst. Manager (Planning, Research and
Development II, III Mechanical 01 1
Assistant Work Manager (Projects) II, III Mechanical 01 1
Government Factory

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
20A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III All Civil Category 1
Department of Inland Revenue
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Additional Director General Special Civil 03 3
Director I Civil 03 36
Director (Mechanical) I Mechanical 01 3
Chief Engineer I Civil 03 40
Chief Engineer II Mechanical 01 3
Engineer (Mechanical) I, II, III Mechanical 01 25
Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 03 249
Department of Irrigation
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Commissioner of Labour (Industrial Safety) & I Civil 01/Mechanical 1
Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer 01/Chemical 01
Dy, Commissioner of Labour & Dy. Chief Factory II Civil 01/Mechanical 1
Inspecting Engineer 01/Chemical 01
Specialist Factory Inspecting Engineer II, III Civil 01/Mechanical 3
01/Chemical 01
District Factory Inspecting Engineer II, III Civil 01/Machanical 01 10
Factory Inspecting Engineer II, III Civil 01/Machanical 01 14
Engineer (Chemical) II, III Chemical 01 2
Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 01 1
Department of Labour
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer (Civil) I, II, III Civil 01 1
Engineer  (Electrical) II, III Electrical 01 2
Engineer (Electrical) I Electrical 01 1
Department of Meteorology
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III All Civil Category 1
Department of National Botanic Gardens

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
21A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineering) I Civil 01 1
Deputy Director/Asst. Director (Engineering) II, III Civil 01 3
Department of National Physical Planning
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Civil Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
Mechanical Engineer II, III Mechanical 01 1
Department of Postal
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineering) I Civil 01 1
Engineer  (Civil) II, III Civil 01 2
Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 01 2
Department of Prisons
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Director (Engineering Services) I All Category 1
Engineer II, III All Civil Category 1
Department of Sports Development
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III All Civil Category 1
Sri Lanka Police Department
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Addl. General Manager Railway Special Civil 04/Mechanical 02 2
Chief Engineer I Mechanical 02 2
Chief Engineer I Civil 04 1
Chief Engineer I Electrical 01 1
Deputy General Manager Railway (Training and I Mechanical/ 1
Human Resources Development Electrical
Deputy Chief Engineer I Electrical 01 1
Sri Lanka Railways

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
22A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Deputy Chief Engineer I Mechanical 02 4
Deputy Chief Engineer I Civil 04 5
Deputy Cheif Engineer (Trainng and Human I Mechanical/Electrical 1
Resources Development)
Superintendent of Engineer I, II Electrical 4
Superintendent of Engineer I, II Mechanical 4
Superintendent of Engineer I, II Civil 9
Engineer I, III Electrical 15
Engineer I, III Mechanical 3 0
Engineer I, III Civil 23
Engineer (Training and Human Resources I, III Mechanical/Electrical 3
Development)
Sri Lanka Railways (contd.)
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Chief Engineer I All Civil Category 1
Engineer  (Civil) II, III Civil 01 2
Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 01 2
Department of Technical Education and Training
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II, III All Civil Category 1
Department of Up-Country Peasantry Rehabilitation
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer I, II, III Civil 01 2
Department of Wildlife Conservation
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 01 1
Department of National Zoological Gardens

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
23A
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Premises Upkeep Manager II, III All Civil Category 1
Department of Sri Lanka Custom
Designation Grade Category Number of Posts
Engineer II Civil 01 1
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption
District Secretariats
District Secretariat Ampara Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Anuradhapura Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Badulla Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Batticaloa Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Colombo Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Gampaha Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Hambantota Engineer II, III Civil 01 02
District Secretariat Kegalle Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Kilinochchiya Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Kurunegala Engineer II, III Civil 01 02
District Secretariat Mannar Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Matale Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Monaragala Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Mullativu Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Polonnaruwa Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Puttalam Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Galle Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Jaffna Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Kalutara Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Kandy Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Matara Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Nuwara Eliya Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Ratnapura Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat Trincomalee Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
District Secretariat V avuniya Engineer II, III Civil 01 1
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Post

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
24A
3  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Eastern Provincial Council
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Spceial Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 2
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Department of Local Government - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Education Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Department of Education Department - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Ministry of Helath, Sports and Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Information Technology Education
Provincial Ministy of Health, Sports and Information Technology Education - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Helath Department - Eastern Province

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
25A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Road Development Department Provincial Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Road Development Department Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial Road Development Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 9
Provincial Road Development Department - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Irrigation Department Provincial Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Irrigation  Department Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial Irrigation  Department Irrigation Engineer II, III Civil 07 21
Provincial Irrigation Department - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Buildings Department Provincial Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Buildings  Department Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial Buildings  Department Engineer II, III Civil 07 8
Provincial Buildings Department - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Batticaloa Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Batticaloa Municipal Council - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Kalmunai Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Kalmunai Municipal Council - Eastern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Akkaraipattu Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Akkaraipattu Municipal Council - Eastern Province
8 — G  18517

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
26A
NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - North Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Special Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Structure and I Civil 07 1
Planning)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Buildings) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
(Buildings)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy  Director (Quality II Civil 07 1
Control)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
(Structure and Planning)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 13
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Department of Local Government - North Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Education Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial of Education Department - North Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Irrigation Department (North Central) Provincial Irrigation I Civil 07 1
Director
Provincial Irrigation Department (North Central) Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial Irrigation Department (North Central) Engineer (Irrigation) II, III Civil 07 4
Provincial Irrigation Department - North Central Province

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
27A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Helath Department - North Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Anuradhapura Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Anuradhapura Municipal Council - North Central Province
SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Southern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Spceial Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 18
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Electrical) II, III Elelctrical 03 2
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Helath Department - Southern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 4
Department Local Government Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechancial 03 1
Department of Local Government - Southern Province

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
28A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Irrigation Department Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Irrigation Department Chief Irrigation Engineer II Civil 07 1
Provincial Irrigation Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 6
Provincial Irrigation Department - Southern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Galle Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Galle Municipal Council Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Galle Municipal Council - Southern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Matara Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Matara Municipal Council - Southern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Hambantota Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Hambantota Municipal Council - Southern Province
WESTERN  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Spceial Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Buildings) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Irrigation) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Engineering) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 31

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
29A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 04
Department of Local Government - Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department - Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Commissioner of Municipal Deputy Municipal I Civil 06 1
Council Commissioner (Engieering)
Colombo Municipal Council
Department of Commission of Municipal Council - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Human Resources Deputy Director (Technical) II Civil 06 1
Development
Department of Commissioner of Municipal Council - Colombo Municipal Council
Department of Human Resources Development
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Engineer Department (Works Division) Director I Civil 06 1
Municipal Engineer Department (Works Division) Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 16
Municipal Engineer Department (Works Division)Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Municipal Engineer Department (Works Division) Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 02 1
Municipal Engineer Department - Colombo Municipal Council

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
30A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Engineer Department (Water Supply Director I Civil 06 1
and Drainage Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Water Supply Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 19
and Drainage Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Water Supply Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 2
and Drainage Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Water Supply Engineer (Elelctrical) II, III Electrical 02 2
and Drainage Division)
Municipal Engineer Department - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Engineer Department (Traffic Director I Civil 06 1
Planning and Highway Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Traffic Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 11
Planning and Highway Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Traffic Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 02 2
Planning and Highway Division)
Municipal Engineer Department - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Engineer Department (Industrial Director I Mechanical 03 1
Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Industrial Engieer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 10
Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Industrial Engieer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 02 4
Division)
Municipal Engineer Department - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Engineer Department (Project Director I Civil 06 1
Division)
Municipal Engineer Department (Project Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 12
Division)
Municipal Engineer Department - Colombo Municipal Council

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
31A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Social Services and Development Department Assistant / Deputy Director II, III Civil 06 1
(Development Division)
Social Services and Development Department - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Social Services and Development Department Director I Civil 06 1
(Solid Waste Management Division)
Social Services and Development Department Deputy Director II Civil 06 1
(Solid Waste Management Division)
Social Services and Development Department Assistant/Deputy II, III Civil 06 3
(Solid Waste Management Division) Director
Social Services and Development Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
(Solid Waste Management Division)
Social Services and Development Department - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Social Services and Development Department Engineer (Civil) I, II, III Civil 06 7
(Town Planning Division)
Social Services and Development Department - Colombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal Council Chief Engineer (Civil) I Civil 06 1
Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 5
Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal Council Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Dehiwala - Mount Lavinia Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Sri Jayawardanepura Kotte Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 2
Sri Jayawardanepura Kotte Municipal Council Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Sri Jayawardanepura Kotte Municipal Council

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
32A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Maharagama Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Maharagama Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Negombo Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 2
Negombo Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Moratuwa Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 2
Moratuwa Municipal Council Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Moratuwa Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Gampaha Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Gampaha Municipal Council
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Kaduwela Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Kaduwela Municipal Council
CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Special Civil 07 1
(Engineering)

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
33A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Department of Local Government - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Engineering Services Department Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Engineering Services Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 19
Provincial Engineering Services Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Engineering Services Department - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Education Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Education Department - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Irrigation Department Chief Engineer I Civil 07 1
Provincial IrrigationDepartment Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 4
Provincial Irrigation Department - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Kandy Municipal Council Chief Engineer I Civil 06 1
Kandy Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 6
Kandy Municipal Council - Central Province

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
34A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Matale Municipal Council Engineer  (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 03 1
Matale Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 2
Matale Municipal Council - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Nuwara Eliya Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Nuwara Eliya Municipal Council - Central Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Dambulla Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Dambulla Municipal Council - Central Province
NOTHERN  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Nothern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Special Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Road Development Department Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Road Development Department Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial Road Development Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 14
Provincial Road Development Department - Nothern Province

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
35A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Buildings Department Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Buildings Department Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial Buildings Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 18
Provincial Buildings Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Buildings Department - Nothern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Irrigation Department Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial IrrigationDepartment Deputy Director II Civil 07 1
Provincial IrrigationDepartment Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 22
Provincial Irrigation Department - Nothern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department - Nothern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Department of Local Government - Nothern Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Jaffna Municipal Council Chief Engineer I Civil 06 1
Jaffna Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 2
Jaffna  Municipal Council - Northern Province

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
36A
NORTH WESTERN  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - North Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Special Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government (Technical Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Division
Department of Local Government - North Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Education Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Education Department - North Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Engineer  Services Department Provincial Director I Civil 07 1
Municipal Engineer Services Department Additional Director I Civil 07 1
Municipal Engineer Services Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 20
Municipal Engineer Services Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial  Engineer Department - North Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Road Development Department Provincial Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Road Development Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 11
Provincial Road Development Department - North Western Province

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
37A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department - North Western Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Kurunegala Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 2
Kurunegala Municipal Council - North Western Province
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Sabaragamuwa Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Special Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Highways) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Buildings) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 31
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department - Sabaragamuwa Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Education Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Education Department - Sabaragamuwa Province

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
38A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Department of Local Government - Sabaragamuwa Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Ratnapura Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Ratnapura Municipal Council - Sabaragamuwa Province
UV A  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Deputy Chief Secretary Special Civil 07 1
(Engineering)
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Director (Buildings) I Civil 07 1
Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering) Office Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 14
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Municipal Mechanical Engineer Department Provincial Mechanical I Mechanical 04 1
Municipal Mechanical Engineer Department Mechanical Engineer II, III Mechanical 04 2
Provincial  Mechanical Engineer Department - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Education Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Education Department - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Department of Local Government Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Department of Local Government - Uva Province

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 11'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.11.2013
39A
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Irrigation Department Provincial Director Of I Civil 07 1
Irrigation
Provincial IrrigationDepartment Irrigation Engineer II, III Civil 07 04
Provincial Irrigation Department - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Electrical) II, III Electrical 03 1
Provincial Health Department Engineer (Mechanical) II, III Mechanical 04 1
Provincial Health Department - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Provincial Road Development Department Director I Civil 07 1
Provincial Road Development Department Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 07 10
Provincial Road Development Department - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Badulla Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Badulla Municipal Council - Uva Province
Institution Designation Grade Category Number of
Posts
Bandarawela Municipal Council Engineer (Civil) II, III Civil 06 1
Bandarawela Municipal Council - Uva Province
11 - 888
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.