

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of June 18, 2010
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21. 06. 2010)
 SRI LANKA ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Economic Association
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. J. R. P. Sooriyapperuma, M. P.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private Member’ s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SRI LANKA  ECONOMIC  ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Sri Lanka
Economic Association” has heretofore been formed as a
limited liability company under the Companies Act, No. 17
of 1982 for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Association according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Economic
Association (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Sri
Lanka Economic Association (hereinafter referred to as “the
Association”), or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be and become a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Sri Lanka Economic Association” and by that name may
sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority
to have and to use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to undertake, promote and facilitate studies in the
field of economics within and outside Sri Lanka;
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Sri
Lanka
Economic
Association.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to organize and promote research in this field and
undertake studies and research projects on contract
from government, private and international agencies
any institutions;
(c) to plan and organize teaching and training
programmes in the field of economics;
(d) to train students and others in research methodology
with the idea of promoting knowledge and
awareness in subjects relevant to economics; and
formulation of effective socio-economic policies;
(e) to prepare and submit reports on issues relating to
economic and social development to and non-
governmental organizations in Sri Lanka;
(f) to promote understanding cooperation and
friendship with similar associations within and
outside the country;
(g) to undertake, promote and conduct on its own
initiative or in collaboration with local or foreign
associations such surveys and studies on economic
and social development in Sri Lanka or any other
region of the world;
(h) to engage in any activity connected with or
incidental to, the above objectives.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations, in
cash or kind;
(b) acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, sell or otherwise dispose of,
any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(c) open, operate and close bank accounts and borrow
or raise money with or without security;
(d) invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation;
(e) enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons;
(f) determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation;
(h) perform and execute all other acts and things as are
necessary or expedient for the attainment of the
objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vest in a Council of Management (hereinafter referred to as
“the Council”) consisting of the office bearers and such other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall consist of
the members of the Council of the Association holding office
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. The Council shall maintain a register of members in
which every person who on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act is a member of the Association
and every person duly admitted a member of the Corporation
shall have his name inscribed.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Register of
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members;
(b) election of the Council, resignation or removal from,
or vacation of, office as office bearers and powers,
duties and conduct of the Council;
(c) powers, duties and functions of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation;
(d) procedure relating to the summoning and holding
of meetings of the Council and the Corporation
and any sub-committee thereof, including the
quorum therefor and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) qualification and disqualification for membership
in the Corporation and in the Council;
(f) administration and management of the property of
the Corporation; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the attainment of its objects.
(2) The Articles of the Association in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act
or any other written law, be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation and may be amended, altered, added to or
rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as a rule made
under subsection (1) of this section.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year.
9. (1) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act (in this section referred to as “the relevant date”),
the undertaking of the Association shall vest absolutely in
the Corporation. For the purposes of this section, “the
undertaking of the Association” means—
(a) all property, movable or immovable, of the
Association;
(b) all rights, powers, privileges and interests of the
Association and all the liabilities of the
Association;
(c) all books, accounts and documents of the
Association.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)—
(a) all property, movable or immovable, owned by the
Association shall vest, with effect from the relevant
date, in the Corporation;
(b) all debts due to and subscriptions and fees payable
to the Association on the day immediately
preceding the relevant date shall be paid to the
Corporation;
(c) all liabilities of the Association subsisting on the
day immediately preceding the relevant date shall,
with effect from the relevant date, be deemed to be
the liabilities of the Corporation;
Accounts and
Audit.
Vesting of
the
Association
in the
Corporation.30

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) all officers and servants of the Association on the
day immediately preceding the relevant date shall,
with effect from the relevant date, be deemed to be
officers and servants of the Corporation;
(e) all contracts and agreements entered into for the
purposes of the Association and subsisting on the
day immediately preceding the relevant date shall
be deemed, with effect from the relevant date, to be
contracts and agreements entered into by the
Corporation;
(f) all actions and legal proceedings instituted by or
against, the Association and pending on the day
immediately preceding the relevant date shall be
deemed, with effect from the relevant date, to be
sections and legal proceedings instituted by, or
against, the Corporation and may be continued and
enforced accordingly.
(3) Upon the vesting of the Association in the
Corporation as provided in the preceding subsections of
this section, the Association shall cease to exist and the
Registrar of Companies shall remove the Association from
the Register of Companies.
10. The Corporation shall have the power to appoint
any committee and to take such other steps as may be found
necessary, from time to time, for the maintenance of
professional standards and discipline among its members.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Council as may be duly
authorised by the Council and another member of the Council
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
Appointment
of
Committees.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
12. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other Institute or Institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
Institute or Institutions shall be determined by the members
of the Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution
of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka Economic Association (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.