

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of May 07, 2010
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 10. 05. 2010)
PILIYANDALA DHARMASHASTRODAYA PIRIVEN
VIHARASTHA SANWARDHANA SABHAWA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Karu Jayasuriya
M. P .  for Gampaha District
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title.
Preamble.
25
2—PL 004821 —80 (05/2010)
L.D.—O. (Inc.) 61/92.
A N  A CT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  PILIYAND ALA  DHARMASHASTR OD AYA
PIRIVEN V IHARASTHA  SANW ARDHAN A  SABHA W A
WHEREAS  a Sabhawa called and known as the “Piliyandala
Dhar mashastrodaya Piriven V iharastha Sanw ardhana
Sabhawa” has heretofore been formed at Piliyandala for the
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting
all matters connected with the Sabhawa, according to the
rules agreed to, by its members:
AND WHEREAS  the said Sabhawa has applied  to be
incorporated in order to enable it more effectively to carry
out and fulfil the several objects and purposes for which it
was formed and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
B E it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Piliyandala
Dhar mashastrodaya Piriven V iharastha Sanw ardhana
Sabhawa (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Piliyandala Dhar mashastroda ya Pririven V iharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (hereinafter referred to as the
“Sabhawa”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Piliyandala
Dhar mashastrodaya Piriven V iharastha Sanw ardhana
Sabhawa” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Piliyandala
Dharma-
shastrodaya
Pririven
V iharastha
Sanwardhana
Sabhawa.

<!-- page 3 -->

Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to maintain buildings owned by the V iharaya and
to construct and maintain new buildings as and
when necessary;
(b) to conduct activities for the promotion of religious
favour among Buddhists and the people of the area;
(c) to promte, encourage and assist in, activities for the
spiritual, cultural, social and physical welfare of its
members;
(d) to safeguard and propagate Buddhism;
(e) to establish monasteries and forest hermitages and
to provide environmental facilities appropriate for
the accomplishment of its objects ;
(f) to ordain youth with the requisite qualifications
and religious devotion and to provide them with
the four requisites;
(g) to preserve and disseminate the Theravadhi
Buddhist philosophy and way of life;
(h) to maintain friendly relations with other Buddhist
Organisations, in and outside Sri Lanka;
(i) to open a hospital for sick monks and to provide
medical facilities to all the monks leading a
monastic life;
(j) to teach the dhamma and the V inaya to monks, to
train them in yoga exercises and to make them
proficient in Pali, Sinhala and oriental and western
languages;
General
Objects of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(k) to establish dhamma schools, and to provide
knowledge of the dhamma to the younger
generation ;
(l) to communicate the message contained in the
teachings of the Buddha and to propagate Buddhist
culture with a view to promoting world peace;
(m ) to present the B uddhist point of view on any matter,
on behalf of the Buddhist community at
conferences and seminars on global problems
relating to education culture, communications,
survival, development and peace, convened by any
international, governmental or non-governmental
organizations, whether religious or secular;
(n) to initiate, co-ordinate and assist studies on
problems of survival, development, peace,
education and culture, from a Buddhist perspective
and to publish the results of such studies;
(o) to provide facilities for B uddhist leaders and
scholars of the world to meet and discuss;
(p) to function as a documentation Centre for peace
oriented Buddhist Study groups meditation groups,
mass-media groups and action groups and to provide
for the exchange of information and the sharing of
experiences;
(q) to establish a library containing books, research
reports, periodicals, other documents, audio-visual
aids, films and cassettes and to provide such other
services as may be deemed desirable for attaining
the objects of the Corporation;
(r) to hold seminars, workshops, conferences and
orientation courses for young persons and youth

<!-- page 5 -->

Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
leaders on  mental health, personality development,
national integration and world peace with a Buddhist
perspective based on wisdom and compassion;
(s) to work in collaboration with the W orld Fellowship
of Buddhists and other religious and secular
international organizations, whether governmental
or non-governmental, for the promotion of world
peace;
(t) to make comparative study of religious
philosophies and of the Buddhist philosophies of
education and other modern philosophies of
education, for the purpose of evolving a theory of
education relevant to contemporary society;
(u) to conduct courses of vocational education for the
youths in Sri Lanka;
(v) to train students in small industries and help them
financially or otherwise to establish themselves as
useful citizens;
(w ) to foster and promote education by establishing
and maintaining schools and educational
institutions and by awarding scholarships;
(x) to grant medical relief, clothing and shelter to the
needy, the orphaned and the sick;
(y) to establish and maintain orphanages and homes
for the aged and the destitute and to establish social
welfare centres;
(z) to provide welfare facilities for the disabled, the
deaf, the dumb and the blind;

<!-- page 6 -->

5Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(aa) to give aid by way of scholarships, or cash or
otherwise to monks, volunteers and other persons
engaged in the furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(bb) to promote arrange, organise and hold exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,
debates, conferences, tours, excursions or any other
activities, in furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(cc) to co-operate and associate with other associations,
societies or organizations having objects similar to
those of the Corporation;
(dd) to engage in any industry, trade or import and export
business, and to promote and carry on any business
and to promote and carry on any agricultural,
industrial or commercial enterprise, to provide aid
and assistance to any persons to carry on such
enterprises, to conduct training programmes and to
organize service and propaganda campaigns, with
a view to providing the public with technological
expertise; and
(ee) to do all other acts and things as are or may be
necessary or incidental to the attainment of all or
any of the aforesaid objects.
4.   Subject to the provisions of this Act, or other written
law , the Corporation shall have the pow er to do, perform and
execute all such acts, matters and things what so ever as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise money, with or without security, to receive or
collect grants and donations, to invest its funds, and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
25
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Committee of Management consisting of
the Director-General, the Honorary Secretary and the
Honorary Treasurer and not less than six other members as
may be provided for in those rules and elected in accordance
therewith.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sub-
section (1) of this section, the V enerable Pethigam uw e
Rahula, Chief Incumbent of Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya
Pririven V iharaya, shall unless he resigns earlier be the
Director-General of the Corporation and shall be the
Director-General for life and he shall nominate a successor
who shall unless he resigns earlier also hold office for life.
(3) The first Committee of Management of the corporation
shall consist of the members of the Committee of
Management of the Sabhawa holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whose
names are specified in the Schedule to this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the  Corporation from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law , for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office bearers, resignation or
vacation of, or removal from  office of office-
bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management its powers, conduct and duties ;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation,
Committee of Management or any sub-committee,
and of the time, places, notices and agenda, of such
meetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereof;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) An y rules made by  the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules of the Sabhawa in force on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act, shall, in so far as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law , be deemed to be rules made under this
section.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Sabhawa existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Sabhawa on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Sabhawa.

<!-- page 9 -->

Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
8
5
10
15
20
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, lease or testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation
for the time being in force with full powers to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a
member of the Committee of Management and the  Honorary
Secretary or such other person duly authorised by the
Committee of Management who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence, and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from, or under
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
SCHEDULE [Section 5(3)]
Director-General : V en. Pethigam uw e Rahula T hero
Secretary : Mr . H. A. Chandradasa Nadugala
Treasurer : Mr . Sunil Perera
V ice-President : Mr . Piyasiri Rajapakse
Asst. Secretary : Mr . P. P. Gama ge
Chief Lay Patron : Mr . Sirinal de Mel
: Mr . Densil A ponsu
: Mr . D. L. W . Kumar age
Auditor : Mr . Manjula Samarasekera
Committee Members : Mr . Jagath Ratnapala
: Mr . K. P. Gunasena
: Mrs. Manel Perera
: Mr s. Y asaw athie Nerangala
: Mr s. Y . Munasinghe
: Mr . Lalith Hettiarachchi
: Mr . M. A. Premadasa

<!-- page 11 -->

Piliyandala Dharmashastrodaya Piriven Viharastha
Sanwardhana Sabhawa (Incorporation)
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.