

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2555
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2546
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"135 – 2019 wf.daia;= ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'08'02
No. 2,135  –  fRiday ,  august 02, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd august, 2019 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th august, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2543 - B 81547- 5,403 (08/2019)
Note.–    (i) companies (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of July 19, 2019.
 (ii) Lions clubs international district 306a - National development foundation trust (incorporation) (amendment) Bill was 
published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2544
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2545
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner general Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner general of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner general of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
general of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner general of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner general of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2546
mINISTRy Of LANDS AND PARLIAmENTARy 
REfORmS
Inviting Applications for the Post of Stenographer, 
Segment II of the management Assistant 
Non-Technical Category of the Land Acquisition 
board of Review
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the below mentioned 
vacancies under the post of stenographer, segment ii of the 
Management assistant Non-technical category of the Land
acquisition Board of Review functions under the preview of 
Ministry of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms. 
 
Approved post Number of
Vacancies
stenographer (sinhala) 02
stenographer (English) 01
application forms prepared as per the specimen form 
appended at the end of this notice should be sent by 
registered post to reach the “secretary, Ministry of Lands 
and Parliamentary Reforms” on or before 23.08.2019. the 
words “Recruitment to the Post of stenographer ” should be 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application form.
Note.- No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. applicants 
who delay their applications until the last day will 
do so at their own risk.
01. Method of Recruitment .– selection will be made 
on the order of merit secured at the vocation test to be 
conducted by an institution to be appointed by the secretary 
to the Ministry of Land and Parliamentary Reforms and 
as well as the structured interview to be conducted by an 
interview board to be appointed by the secretary to the 
Ministry of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms. the number 
of recruitments and the date on which such recruitments will 
take effect will be decided by the appointing authority and the 
appointing authority shall have the authority to fill a few or 
all the vacancies or not to fill the vacancies.
2. Terms of engagement :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
 
Note: they are subjected to a policy decision taken by 
the government with regard to the pension scheme. 
they should contribute to the pension scheme/
widows’, widowers’ and orphans’ pensions scheme. 
The officers should pay their contributions as the 
government may order from time to time.
 (ii) An officer recruited to this post is subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years from the 
date on which his/her appointment takes effect. 
The officer is recruited to pass the First efficiency 
Bar Examination before the expiry of three (03) 
years from the date on which the recruited will 
be made to this post.
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in terms of 
the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 
and the circulars issued incidental thereto, 
acquire the prescribed language proficiency 
within five (05) years of appointing to this post. 
The officer who enters the public service in a 
medium of language other than in a medium 
of any of the official languages will require to 
reach a requisite standard of proficiency in one 
official language within the probationary period 
and within five (05) years in the other official 
language.
 (iv) this appointment will be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission, Establishment code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations, departmental orders and 
any other circulars issued from time to time by 
the government.
3. Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, grade iii, ii, and 
i of the post of stenographer is under MN-1-2016, which 
carries a salary scale of Rs.27,140-10x300-11x350-10x495-
10x660- Rs. 45,540 per month. Promotion to grade ii should 
be obtained to exceed the Rs. 30,490/- and promotion to 
grade i should be obtained to exceed the Rs. 34,485/-.
Payments will be made as per the schedule ii, from the 
effective date of appointment.
4. Qualification :
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
  should have passed six (06) subjects at the g.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination with credit passes for sinhala/
Posts – vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2547
tamil/English language and Mathematics and two (02) other subjects at one sitting and at least one (01) subject at 
the g.c.E. (a/L) Examination (except for general common test).
 ii. Professional Qualifications :
  should have completed NVQ Level 3 of stenography at an institution recognized by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission or have possessed a credit pass for type Writing and shorthand at the ordinary Level 
Examination.
5. Age Limit.– applicants should be not less than 18 years of age and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date 
of applications.
6. Other Qualifications :
 i. should be citizen of sri Lanka,
 ii. Should posses an excellent character and physically fit.
 iii. Should not be a person disqualified to be appointed to the Public Service as per chapter V of the Procedural 
Rules of the Public service commission.
 iv. should serve in any part of the island and to discharge the duties and functions of the post.
Note: Every applicant has to fulfill the necessary qualifications in every respect prior to or as at the closing date of 
applications.
7. The applicants who have fulfilled qualifications shall be appointed to Grade III of the Stenographer's service upon 
the order of marks scored by the candidate of the practical test and professional test conducted as per the provisions of the 
recruitment procedure approval by the secretary, Public services commission, on 30.11.2017.
8. Method under which marks are awarded at the structured interview and professional test.
the structured interview :
Serial
No.
Spheres in respect of which marks are
awarded
Maximum
Marks
Pass mark
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 10
Not
applicable
 
02. Additional Professional Qualifications 20
03. Language Proficiency Sinhala/Tamil/English 10
04. computer Literacy 15
05. Experience 40
06. skills shown at the interview 05
total 100
the professional test
Subject Duration Total
Marks
Pass
Mark
Syllabus
stenography
(English)
01 hour 100 40% A test to assess the proficiency by writing short hand a paragraph read 
continuously in a period of 05 minutes by 100 words per minute and that 
note should be written normally by a speed of 08 words per minute.
type writing
(English)
20 minutes 100 40% a paragraph of 600 words should typewrite within 20 minutes at a speed 
of 30 words per minute.
stenography
(sinhala)
45 minutes 100 40% A test to assess the proficiency by writing short hand a paragraph read 
continuously in a period of 05 minutes by 60 words per minute and that 
note should be written normally by a speed of 08 words per minute.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2548
Subject Duration Total
Marks
Pass
Mark
Syllabus
type writing
(sinhala)
20 minutes 100 40% a paragraph of 400 words should typewrite within 20 minutes at a speed 
of 30 words per minute.
9. the application shall be completed carefully and 
accurately. if the perticulers  providing the candidate is 
proved to be false in any event, he/she shall be dismissed 
from service.
10. all the applicants who have produced their 
applications before the closing date shall be called for the 
interview upon the presumption that those who have fulfilled 
the required qualifications in this notice have submitted 
applications. However calling for the interview should not 
be considered as the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications 
required for the post.
11. applications should be prepared on a a4 paper of 
22x29cm in size using both sides and items from 01 to 11 (i) 
to appear on the first page and from 11(ii) -16 to the second 
page and 16 onwards to the third page. It should be filled 
by the candidate’s own legible handwriting. applications 
which are not in conformity with the specimen appended 
at the end of this notice or received after the closing date 
of acceptance of applications are liable to be rejected 
without notice. incomplete applications and applications 
of applicants who do not possess the prescribed minimum 
requirements will also be rejected. Receipt of applications 
will not be acknowledge.
Note:  No documents or copies of documents should 
be attached to the application form. Certificates 
in confirmation of all qualifications mentioned 
in the application by the applicants should be 
proved at the interview.
12. the signature of the applicant should be attested by 
a principal or a justice of peace / commissioner for oaths / 
Notary public / a Commissioned Officer in three Forces or 
a police officer whose post is Gazetted in or a permanent 
officer in public service who draws an annual salary not less 
than Rs. 237,060.
13. candidate must provide one of the following 
documents to the interview Board to prove their identity.
 i. National identify card issued by the department 
of Registration of persons.
 ii. a  valid passport.
14. The right of filling or non filling these vacancies 
shall be reserved by the Public service commission. all 
applicants are unable to adhere to the rules and regulations 
in this notice’ in case of an inconsistency between sinhala, 
tamil and English, the sinhala text will prevail.
By order of the secretary, Public service commission,
 W. H. 
Karunarathne,
 secretary,
 Ministry of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms.
No. 1200/6, "Mihikatha Medura", 
Rajamalwatta avenue, 
Battaramulla.
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
Ministry of Lands and ParLiaMentary reforMs
aPPLication for the recruitMent to the Post of 
stenograPher (sinhaLa/engLish) segMent ii of the 
ManageMent assistant non-technicaL category of the 
Land acquisition board of review
For office use only
Medium of apply :
sinhala - 2/ tamil - 3/ English- 4
01. Name with initials (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Name with initials at the end (English Block capitals) 
:–––––––––––.
 (Eg:-siLVa a.B.c.)
04. National identity card No. : 
05. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
06. gender :  
female - 1        Male- 0
07. date of Birth :
 y ear :                        Month :                  date :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2549
08. age as at 23.08.2019 :–––––––––––.
09. civil status :–––––––––––. 
10. contact No. (if available) :
 Mobile:
 Residence :
11. Educational Qualifications :
   (i) g.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
    y ear :–––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
 (ii) g.c.E.(a/L) Examination
    y ear :–––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
12. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
13. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
14. Experience in the post :–––––––––––.
15.  Whether you have been convict of any criminal offence 
in a court of law? if' 'yes' indicate the perticulars :
 y es                               No  
16. declaration of the candidate :
 (a) i declare that the information furnished by me in 
this application is true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge. i admit that i have to bear the 
inconvenience caused by submitting incomplete 
applications and/ or providing inaccurate 
information in the application.
 (b) i am also aware that if any particulars contained 
herein are found to be false and inaccurate, i am 
liable for disqualification before appointment and 
dismissal from service without any compensation 
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
 (c) i shall not change any information given here 
later.
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss. ................................ 
who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
  –––––––––––––,
  signature. 
date :–––––––––––.
Perticulers of the attester :
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(place the official Stamp)
 (the signature of the applicant should be attested by 
a principal or a justice of peace / commissioner for 
Oaths / Notary public / a Commissioned Officer in three 
Forces or a police officer whose post is Gazetted in or 
a permanent officer in public service who draws an 
annual salary not less than Rs. 237,060)
17. should be completed by those who are already in Public/ 
Local government service
Recommendation of the Head of the Institution with regard 
to the applicants already in Public Service :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................
who is submitting this application is serving in ....................
Ministry/department/institute in the post of............................ 
effective from ........................................  he/she has/ has not 
been made confirmed in his/her post and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any type of disciplinary punishments 
for any offence, i further declare that the particulars in this 
application are true and correct as per his/her personal file, 
and necessary arrangements can be made to release him/her 
from the post held at present in this institution, if he/she is 
selected.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of head of the institution.
 (place the Official Stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
08–346

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2550
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment for the post of Legal Officer 
(Executive Officer Grade iii) Co-operative 
Employees Commission
aPPLicatioNs are called from the citizens of sri Lanka 
who have fulfilled qualifications set out in this notice 
to fill the 01 Vacancy for the post of Legal Officer of 
Executive Officer Grade in the Co-operative Employees 
commission under the Ministry of industry & commerce, 
Resettlement of Protracted displaced Persons and                                                                    
co-operative development and V ocational training & 
skills development.
1. Method of Recruitment. – the candidate who have 
fulfilled the qualifications set out in this notice and obtained 
the highest marks at the structured interview held by an 
interview board appointed by the Public service commission 
will be recruited to fill the vacancy. The structured interview 
will be conducted in accordance with the scoring procedure 
approved by the Public service commission (mentioned 
under 06).
the date of appointment will be decided by the Public 
service commission. 
2. Qualifications :
 (i) Educational/Professional qualifications.– should 
have taken oath as a lawyer in the supreme court.
 (ii) experience.– after having taken oath as an 
attorney-at-Law of the supreme court, active 
professional experience as a lawyer for not less 
than three (03) years. (the documents submitted 
to prove active professional experience should 
clearly state, specifying the time, date and the 
date of the experience and the official stamp) 
should have professional experience 
or
  after having been sworn in as an attorney-at-Law 
of the supreme court, should have experience of 
the following functions, not less than three (03) 
years in the legal field of a public institute.
(1) dealing with cases and co-ordinating with 
the attorney general's department ;
(2) Legal matters related to agreements ;
(3) Legal matters related to acts ;
(4)  formulation of legal documents such as 
Bills, circulars, Regulations ;
(5)  investigations related to legal matters 
conducted by various institutions ;
 (These facts should be confirmed by a 
certificate issued by the Secretary, Head of 
the department.)
 (Officers who have been confirmed in their 
service in the Public service / Provincial 
Public service with a salary scale of 
MN 01 or higher and have an active and 
satisfactory service period of 10 years can 
apply for this post.)
 (iii) Physical requirement.– Every candidate should 
be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part 
of sri Lanka and perform the duties of the post.
 (iv) Other Qualifications :
• Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
• Should have an excellent character ;
• Should have completed all the requirements 
for recruitment to the post by the closing date 
of applications ;
• Be fluent in English.
3. Terms and Conditions of employment and the Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. should 
be subjected to policy decisions taken in due 
course by the government on the pension 
scheme entitled by you. contribution should 
be made to the Widows’ and orphans’ Pension 
Fund. You should pay the contribution specified 
by the government from time to time. 
 (ii) this appointment is subject to 03 years 
probationary period. Within 03 years after 
appointment the first efficiency bar examination 
should be passed. 
 (iii) as     per     the     Public circular No. 01/2014 
dated 21.01.2014 all officers recruited should 
acquire the relevant proficiency in the other 
official language within a  period  of  05  years  
in  addition  to  the  official language through 
which they enter the service and the officers 
recruited in a language which is not an official 
language should acquire the proficiency of the 
relevant official language.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2551
 (iv) this appointment should be subjected to the procedural rules of the Public service commission, the Establishment 
code of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the government and to the 
other departmental regulations..
4. Age limit. – should not be less than 21 years of age and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications. (this maximum age limit does not apply for the internal applicants.)
5. Salary scale.– this post is entitled a monthly salary scale of Rs.47,615- 10 x 1,335 - 8 x 1630 - 17 x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 
(monthly) you are paid the salaries in conformity with provisions of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 as stated schedule ii therein - sL-1-2016) 
06. following marking scheme is based for the structured interview.
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Highest 
marks
01 Additional educational qualifications
Post Graduate Degree in the relevant field obtained from a university recognized by the 
university grant commission
Post Graduate Diploma or Post Diploma in Law (not less than one year) in the field provided 
by an institution recognized by the government
Having obtained a degree in Law from a university recognized by the university grant 
commission (ugc)
• For a first class Honors
• For a upper second class honors
• For a lower second class honors
For a first class pass in Law College final year
For a second class pass in Law College final year
Note: 5 marks should be awarded only for those who passed the final examination with 
honors.
(Maximum marks are given only for one qualification )
25
20
15
10
05
10
05
25
2 additional professional experience
i. Additional professional qualifications
For a diploma in the relevant field with a duration of more than one year obtained from an 
institute recognized by the government
(10 marks per each diploma)
For a diploma in the relevant field with a duration of more than 06 months and less than one 
year obtained from an institute recognized by the government 
(05 marks per each diploma)
For a certificate course in the relevant field with a duration of more than 03 months and less 
than 06 months obtained from an institute recognized by the government
(03 marks per each diploma)
(Other certificates than that were given marks under No.01)
10
35

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2552
Serial 
No.
Subject Marks Highest 
marks
2 ii.       additional experience
Experience as an attorney-at-Law in public or private sector 
- 05 per one year and maximum marks 25 
- More than 06 months and less than one year: 02 marks.
(Except the 03 year service functioned as an Attorney-at-Law to get the basic qualification.)
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate obtained from an Attorney-at-
Law who have completed not less than 20 years or President counsel or Judge)
(Heads of institutions should certify the additional experience for Public Officers or Private 
Sector Officers who have completed the above qualifications with a Certificate of Service / 
Certificate that the applicant is working in a legal position.)
25
03 Knowledge in information technology
for a degree where information technology has studied as a main subject and obtained from 
a university recognized by the ugc  
for  a diploma  in information technology with duration of not less than 01 year in an 
institute recognized by the government or 1500 hours.  
For a certificate course in Information Technology obtained from an institute recognized by 
the government 
• 06 months/ 720 hours
• 03 months/ 360 hours
(Marks are given only for the maximum qualification)
10
07
05
03
10
04 Language proficiency
Post graduate degree/degree/LLM/LLB  in English medium
(answers in all the relevant answer scripts should be in English medium.)
for a diploma in English Language at a university recognized by the university grants 
commission or a recognized government institution (01 year or 1500 hours)
For a Certificate course in English Language at a university recognized by the University 
grants commission or a recognized government institution 
 - 06 months / 720 hours
 - 03 months/ 360 hours
(Marks are given only for the maximum qualification )
15
10
07
05
15
05 skill at the interview
i. general knowledge and intelligence
ii. Knowledge in modern trends in the sphere of Law
iii. communication skills and good personality 
05
05
05
15
total 100

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2553
7. Identity of the candidates.– only the candidates who 
have submitted duly filled applications are called for the 
structured interview. The original certificates and duly 
certified copies should be submitted. 
the following are accepted to prove the identity of the 
candidate at the structured interview :
 (i)  Valid identity card issued by the commissioner of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (ii)   Valid passport .
8. Method of submitting applications :
 (i) applications should be sent by registered post 
to be received on or before 19.08.2019 delayed 
applications will be rejected. 
  secretary, 
  co-operative Employees commission, 
  No.100 1/1, 
  Lady Lochore Loan fund Building,
  sir chittampalam a. gardiner Mawatha, 
  colombo 02.
 (ii) a  specimen application to be forwarded is 
attached at the end of this notice. applicants 
should prepare their applications on a4 sheets to 
contain No. 01 – 08 on the first page and the rest 
from No: 09 – 12 on the second page and the rest 
on the third page and complete it in their own 
handwriting. 
 (iii) the top left hand corner of the envelop should 
mention the “application for the post of 
Legal Officer of the Co-operative Employees 
commission”
 (iv) signature of the applicant should be attested by 
a principal in a government school/ Justice of 
the Peace / commissioner for oaths/ attorney – 
at –Law / Public Notary/ Commissioned Officer 
in the Tri-Forces or an Officer who holds a 
permanent post in the government who earns a 
monthly salary of Rs. 47,615.00/- or more.
 (v) The officers of those who are presently employed 
in the Public service or Provincial Public service 
should submit their applications through their 
Head of departments. 
 (vi) applications which have not been submitted 
inconformity with the specimen application form 
attached herein will be rejected. complaints 
regarding lost or delayed applications will not 
been pertained. 
9. Furnishing false particulars.– if any of particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such 
falsehood or error is detected after recruitment, actions will 
be taken to dismiss from service subject to the relevant 
procedures.
10. the Public service commission reserves the right 
either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the Post.
11. if any non-conformity among the sinhala, tamil 
and English notices of this Gazette  Notification the Sinhala 
version should be enforced. 
12. if a problem arisen regarding any matter not covered 
by this Notice or within the procedure of recruitment 
the decision taken in that regard by the Public service 
Commission is the final. 
By order of the Public service commission,
 secretary,
 Ministry of industry & commerce, 
 Resettlement of Protracted displaced  
 Persons and  co-operative development and 
 V ocational training & skills development.
22nd July, 2019.
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
          (For office use)
PubLic service coMMission
aPPLication for recruitMent for the Post of LegaL 
officer (executive officer grade iii) co-oPerative 
eMPLoyees coMMission
sinhala
tamil
English
01.  Name of the applicant :
 (i) Name with initials putting at the end of the name 
:–––––––––––. (in block capitals) 
 (ii) full Name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 (iii) full Name (in sinhala / tamil) :–––––––––––.
Medium of language for the interview 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2554
02.  address and telephone Number:
 (i)  Official Address :––––––––––––––.
  t elephone numbers  :––––––––––––––.
 (ii) Private address  :––––––––––––––.
  t elephone Number:  Mobile  :––––––––––––––.         Home  :––––––––––––––.
03.  date of Birth:  year :––––––––––––––.      Month  :––––––––––––––.     date  :––––––––––––––.
04.  age at closing date of applications :
  y ears :––––––––––––––. Months :––––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––––.
05.  Nic Number :––––––––––––––. 
06. gender :––––––––––––––. 
07.  Whether Married/unmarried/Widowed :––––––––––––––. 
08.  Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Post graduate degree /degree in Law, university obtained, grade, valid date and medium :––––––––––––––. 
 (ii) date sworn in as an attorney-at-Law in supreme court :––––––––––––––. 
09.  Professional Qualifications :
examination/Diploma  Year Duration Subjects Grade  Name of the institute / university
10.  Details about job experience (Service certificate should be submitted)
Institution served Designation and salary code and salary scale Period of service
11.  skills obtained on computer Literacy : 
 (i)  degree :––––––––––––––. 
 (ii) diploma (Name and duration)  :––––––––––––––. 
 (iii) Certificate course (Name and duration)  :––––––––––––––. 
12. Proficiency in English Language :
 (i)  degree  :––––––––––––––. 
 (ii) diploma (Name and duration)  :––––––––––––––. 
 (iii) Certificate course (Name and duration)  :––––––––––––––. 
13. Have you ever been charged for any criminal offense by court of Law?  :––––––––––––––. 
 i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application by me are true and accurate. i am also aware that 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or erroneous before recruitment, I am liable to be disqualified and 
if such falsehood or error is found after recruitment, will be subjected to be dismissed from service without paying any 
compensation.
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date  :––––––––––––––. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2555
14.  attestation of the signature of the applicant:
 i hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms …………...… (Name in full) is personally known to me, and placed his/
her signature before me on………………….
  –––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the person attesting the signature of the applicant.
Name of the person attesting the signature of the  applicant :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
15. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution :
 (applicable only to those who are already in the public service)
i hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms. .………….........… is serving in the post of …………… at present and 
further certify that his/her works, attendant and conduct is satisfactory, no any disciplinary action against him/her and has 
not intended to do so. it can / cannot be released him/her from the service if selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and the official stamp of Head of the Department.
Name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
08–239
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
DISASTER  mANAGEmENT AND RuRAL 
ECONOmIC AffAIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in 
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Librarians’ 
Service - 2017/(II)2019
EfficiENcy Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade II 
of sri Lanka Librarians' service will be held in colombo in 
the month of November 2019 as provided for in appendix 
04 of the sri Lanka Librarians' service Minute published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2024/35 of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka dated 21.06.2017. only 
the officers in Combined Service in the Public Service can 
apply for the relevant Efficiency bar examination as per this 
notification.
Note: Provisions for Provincial Librarians’ service shall 
be issued by the relevant Provincial Public service 
commissions and provisions shall be issued by 
the relevant institutions for other institutions 
concurrently to this Gazette Notification.
In order to identify the applications of the officers in each 
provincial public service and other institutions conveniently, 
code number should be used when indicating the relevant 
service or institution in the application. Accordingly, for 
the officers in combined service code number is 10.  
this number should be entered in the upper right side of 
the application where you have to mention the service you 
belong to.
02. (i) this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-general of Examinations and the 
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examination on conducting the examination and 
issuance of results.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2556
 (ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed 
separately at the beginning of the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates will be liable to any 
punishment imposed by the commissioner  
general of Examinations for breach of these rules.
03. the specimen form of application for this examination 
is published at the end of this notice. candidates should 
prepare their own applications correctly and legibly in 
accordance with the specimen form of application and send 
through the respective Heads of departments by registered 
post to reach the “commissioner - general of Examinations. 
organization (institution and foreign Examination) 
Branch, department of Examinations sri Lanka, P.o. Box 
1503, colombo” on or before 2nd of september 2019. the 
name of the examination and the relevant grade should be 
indicated at the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which 
the application is enclosed. applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected.
04. Identity of the candidates.– candidates 
should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor of the examination hall for each subject they 
offer. any of the following documents will be accepted for 
this purpose.
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a valid Passport
 (iii) a valid driving License
the candidature of any candidate who is unable to 
submit any of the above mentioned documents is liable to 
be cancelled on the discretion of the commissioner general 
of Examinations.
05. Applications.– applications should be prepared using 
both sides of a paper of a4 size in such a way that Nos. 
1.0 to 5.0 appear on the lst page whilst the Nos. 6.0 to 9.0 
appear on the 2
nd Page. the application could be typewritten 
but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's 
own handwriting. applications that do not comply with 
the specimen and that have not been perfected properly 
will be rejected without notice. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form. 
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing  in the 
specimen in  English language as well, on both  sinhala and     tamil  
application forms. it is  the  responsibility of  the candidate to   
make  sure  that  the  application form  perfected by him/ herself 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice 
and the application has been perfected accurately including 
all the particulars and the prescribed examination fee has been 
paid and the relevant particulars are included in 
the application and the receipt is affixed. Indicate  
“Efficiency bar Examination for Officers in Grade II of Sri 
Lanka Librarians’ service”- 2017(11) 2019 in top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is forwarded.
ii. Penalty for furnishing false information.- 
application should be perfected very carefully with 
correct information. if a candidate is found to 
be ineligible in accordance with the rules and 
regulations of this examination, his/ her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
candidates who apply for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, candidates should pay Rs. 500 for the 
whole examination, and Rs.
%250 for one subject. the cash 
receipt obtained from any post/ sub post office island - 
wide  or  any Divisional/ District  Secretariat    Office    to be 
credited to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations, should be affixed in the due place   of the 
application. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash 
receipt with the candidate. it is kindly informed that no fee 
shall be charged in addition to the examination fee. the fee 
will not be refunded under any circumstance and will not be 
transferred in respect of any other examination.
06. on the assumption that only those who possess 
the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification 
have sent applications, the commissioner general of 
Examinations will issue admission cards along with copies 
of the time table to all candidates who have paid the relevant 
fees, whose applications have been filled properly and 
received along with the relevant receipt on or before the 
closing date. candidates appearing for the examination 
should get their signatures on the admission cards attested in 
advance and produce to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to 
sit for the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
candidates. if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
notification. Name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, address and national identity card number 
should be mentioned when making such inquiry. in case of 
applicants outside colombo, it would be advisable to send 
a letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent, to  the  fax number mentioned 
in the  notification and  further to keep the  following  in  hand  at   

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2557
the time of calling the department of Examinations: i.e. copy of 
the application form and the receipt kept at your possession 
if it is relevant to payment of examination fee, receipt of 
registration.
issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
07. the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him.
08. the admission card in which the signature has 
been attested should be produced to the supervisor 
of the examination center on the first day of the examination.
09. the Heads of departments should approve 
duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have 
been issued by the commissioner - general of Examinations 
to enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling 
expenses will be paid.
10. this examination will be held in sinhala, 
tamil and English media and candidates should answer 
both question papers in the language medium of the entry 
examination to the relevant service or in the official language. 
candidates who entered the service without a competitive 
Examination should answer both papers in the language 
medium of their education or in the official language.
it would not be allowed to change the language medium 
of examination indicated in the application subsequently.
11. The officers may appear separately for each 
subject and at different occasions. However, for a 
pass, officers should obtain  at least 40% of the total marks 
for each subject.
12. commissioner general of Examinations will 
release the results of the examination to the director  
general of combined services and the results will be 
published in the website of Ministry of Public administration, 
disaster Management and Rural Economic affairs.
13. Scheme of examination.– Examination consists of 2 
questions papers
01. subject No:01 - general administration and 
financial Procedure - (100 marks)
• Part i - general administration-duration -                     
1 1/2 Hours (50 marks).
(a) Basic knowledge on the constitution of sri Lanka.
(b) chapters Vi to Viii and Xii, XiV , XXiV , 
XXVii, XXViii of the Establishment code are 
included.
(c) state archives act, No. 48 of 1973 and National 
archives (amendment) act, No: 30 of 1981.
(d) Part iii of science and information technology 
act: 11 of 1994.
(e) National Library and documentation services 
Board act, No. 51 of 1998.
(f) intellectual Property act, No. 36 of 2003.
• Part ii - financial Procedure -duration - 1 1/2 
Hours (50 marks).
(h) financial Regulations - Part i
 accounting activities of libraries and related 
regulations.
2. subject No:02 - Library organization - duration 
03 hours - (100 marks)
(a) Library building and equipment.
(b) advantages of government publications and 
method of using them.
(c) Regional and international organizations in 
the field of Library.
(d)  strategies of Library management.
(e)  financial management.
(f)  time management.
(g)  Human resource Management.
(h) activities of information communication 
technology of sri Lanka.
(i)  computerizing systems and network of 
library activities.
N.B.– : candidates should obtain 40% of marks for each 
subject to pass this Examination.
14. the decision of the director general of 
Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter  
not provided for in this notification.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2558
15. in case of any inconsistency among sinhala, tamil and English texts of this notification, the  Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
 K.V .P.M.J. gaMage,
 director general of combined services, 
 Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
 Rural Economic affairs.
Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
Rural Economic affairs, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
19th of July, 2019.
(For Office use only) 
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
efficiency bar exaMination for officers in grade ii of the sri LanKa
governMent Librarians’ service - 2017(11)2019
Medium of Language in which you are appearing  the service to which you belong 
for the exam   (Please refer Note of para 1.0 of the Gazette
  Sinhala - 2 Notification carefully before filling this section)
  t amil  - 3  
  English - 4
  (indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
 
1.0 1.1  Name in full (in bock capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (E.g : HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Names with initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (E.g: guNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K)
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.0  Place of work and address:-
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institution (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institution (In Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 gender : - female  - 1 
      Male  - 0  
        (indicate the relevant Number in the cage)   
 3.2 N.i.c No. :
 3.3 contact Number : Mobile :                                      Office :

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2559
4.0 subject offering and respective subjects Numbers :
Subject Subject No.
5.0 date of Birth :       date :                                  Month :                   year :
6.0 Present Post :-
 6.1 Post :–––––––––––––. 
 6.2 Number of the appointment Letter :–––––––––––––.
7.0 7.1  Are you applying for the examination for the first time? :–––––––––––––.
 7.2 if not, examination fees paid :–––––––––––––.
 7.3 Post office/ Sub post office or any Divisional/ District Secretariat Office :–––––––––––––.
 7.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––––.
 7.5 date :–––––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here 
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0  Certificate of the Candidate :
i declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that i am eligible to appear for the examination in the medium 
indicated above, and that i have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. further, i agree to abide by the 
rules and regulations imposed by commissioner general of Examinations on conducting the examination and issuance of 
results.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
9.0  Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that,
 (i) This candidate is employed in this Department as an officer in Grade II of the Librarians' Service
 (ii) the particulars furnished above are correct.
 (iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form 
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the past 5 years period; and
 (iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
 (v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed. (Delete if inapplicable).
  –––––––––––––––––––
  Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
date :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
08–149

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2560
amendment
ThE GAzETTE NOTIfICATION ISSuED TO 
RECRuIT b.SC. (NuRSING) GRADuATES fOR 
ThE ORIENTATION AND CO-ORDINATION 
COuRSE IN NuRSING- 2018 -2019
tHE sections 03 (f), 03 (g), 04 (d), 06 of the Gazette 
Notification and 07 (b) of the specimen form of 
application published in the Gazette No. 2118 dated 
05.04.2019 for calling applications from sri Lankan  
citizens who have obtained a Bsc (Nursing) degree to 
recruit to the orientation and co-ordination course 
in Nursing of the Ministry of Health Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine, are amended as follows.other sections of the 
notification remain unchanged.
 wasantha Perera, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
 indigenous Medicine.
at the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
 indigenous Medicine, 
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
No. 385, 
colombo 10,
on 19th July, 2019.
ministry of health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
medicine
REcRuitMENt B. sc. (NuRsiNg) gRaduatEs foR 
tHE oRiENtatioN aNd co-oRdiNatioN couRsE 
iN NuRsiNg- 2018 -2019
03.(f)
should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 
years of age as at l6.08.2019.
3.(g) the effective date of the degree should be a date 
prior to 16.08.2019.
04.(d)
on the top left hand comer of the envelop in which 
the application is enclosed, it should be mentioned the 
words “Recruitment of B.sc. (Nursing) graduates for 
orientation and co-ordination course in Nursing -2018 
2019 - and the relevant degree and the academic year. the 
applications should be sent by registered post to reach the 
director (admin) 01, Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine,“suwasiripaya” 385, Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 10, before 
16.08.2019.
Note : Candidate should have satisfied qualifications given 
under above (2) and (3) and all other qualifications 
by 16.08.2019 in all respects.
06. applications which are not in compliance with the terms 
of the general circular, incomplete, not in compliance with 
the specimen form of application, not completed the basic 
qualifications and in which no bank receipt is affixed and not 
registered on or before 16.08.2019 will be rejected without 
any notice and receipt of applications is not acknowledged.
Specimen Form of Application 7.(b).
age as at 16.08.2019 : 
years :––––––––,  Months  :–––––––––,   days  :–––––––––,  
08–179
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
DISASTER mANAGEmENT AND RuRAL 
ECONOmIC AffAIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 
III of the Sri Lanka Librarians’ 
Service - 2017(II)/2019
EfficiENcy Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade III 
of the sri Lanka Librarians' service will be held in colombo 
in the month of November 2019 as provided for in appendix 
03 of the sri Lanka Librarians' service Minute published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2024/35 of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka dated 21.06.2017. only 
the officers in Combined Service in the Public Service can 
apply for the relevant Efficiency bar examination as per this 
notification.
Note: Provisions for Provincial Librarians’ service 
shall be issued by the relevant Provincial 
Public service commissions and provisions 
shall be issued by the relevant institutions for 
other institutions concurrently to this Gazette 
Notification. 
In order to identify the applications of the officers in each 
provincial public service and other institutions conveniently 
code number should be used when indicating the rele vant 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2561
service or institution in the application.  Accordingly, for 
the officers in combined service, code number is 10. 
this number should be entered in the upper right side of 
the application where you have to mention the service you 
belong to.
02 (i)  this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-general of Examinations and the 
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examination on conducting the examination and 
issuance of results.
 (ii)  Rules prescribed for candidates are printed 
separately at the beginning of the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates will be liable to any 
punishment imposed by the commissioner 
general of Examinations for breach of these 
rules.
03. the specimen form of application for this examination 
is published at the end of this notice. candidates should 
prepare their own applications correctly and legibly in 
accordance with the specimen form of application and send 
through the respective Heads of departments by registered 
post to reach the commissioner-general of Examinations, 
organization (institution and foreign Examination)  
Branch, department of  Examinations  s ri Lanka, P.o. Box 
1503, colombo on or before 2nd of september 2019. the 
name of the examination and the relevant grade should be 
indicated at the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which 
the application is enclosed. applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected.
4. Identity of the candidates.– candidates 
should prove  their identity to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor of the examination hall for each 
subject they offer. any of the following documents  
will be accepted for this purpose :
(a) the National identity card ;
(b) a valid Passport ;
(c) a valid driving license.
the candidature of any candidate who is unable 
to submit any of the above mentioned documents  
is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of the commissioner 
general of Examinations.
Applications.– applications should be prepared 
using both sides of a paper of a4 size in such a 
way that Nos. 1.0 to 6.0 appear on the lst page 
whilst the Nos. 7.0 to 10.0 appear on the 2nd Page 
the application could be typewritten but it should 
be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s 
own handwriting. applications that do not comply with 
the specimen and that have not been perfected properly 
will be rejected without notice. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form. 
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing in the 
specimen in English language as well, on both sinhala 
and tamil application forms. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/herself complies with the specimen given in 
the examination notice and the application is perfected 
accurately including all the particulars and the prescribed 
examination fee has been paid and the relevant particulars 
are included in the application and the receipt is affixed. 
Indicate “Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 
iii of sri Lanka Librarians’ service”- 2017(ii) 2019 in top 
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is 
forwarded.
Penalty for furnishing false information.– application 
should be perfected very carefully with correct information. 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/ her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
candidates who apply for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, candidates should pay Rs. 500/- for the 
whole examination, and Rs. 250/- for one subject. the cash 
receipt obtained from any post/ sub post office island - wide 
or any Divisional/ District Secretariat Office to be credited 
to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner general 
of Examinations, should be affixed in the due place of the 
application. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash 
receipt with the candidate. it is kindly informed that no fee 
shall be charged in addition to the examination fee. the fee 
will not be refunded under any circumstance and will not be 
transferred in respect of any other examination.
06. on the assumption that only those who possess the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have sent 
applications, the commissioner general of Examinations 
will issue admission cards along with copies of the time 
table to all candidates who have paid the relevant fees, 
whose applications have been filled properly and received 
along with the relevant receipt on or before the closing 
date. candidates appearing for the examination should get 
their signatures on the admission cards attested in advance 
and produce to the supervisor of the examination hall. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2562
candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to 
sit for the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers by the 
department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the notification. Name of the 
examination, full name of the applicant, address and 
national identity card number should be mentioned when 
making such inquiry. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
it would be advisable to send a letter of request furnishing a 
fax number to which the admission card should be sent, to 
the fax number mentioned in the notification further to keep 
the following in hand at the time of calling the department 
of Examinations: i.e. copy of the application form and the 
receipt kept at your possession if it is relevant to payment of 
examination fee, receipt of registration.
 
issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
07. the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him.
08. the admission card in which the signature has 
been attested should be produced to the supervisor of the 
examination center on the first day of the examination.
09. the Heads of departments should approve duty leave 
for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by 
the commissioner-general of Examinations to enable them 
to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will 
be paid.
10. this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and 
English media and candidates should answer both question 
papers in the language medium of the entry examination to 
the relevant service or in the official language. Candidates 
who entered the service without a competitive Examination 
should answer both papers in the language medium of their 
education or in the official language.
it would not be allowed to change the language medium 
of examination indicated in the application subsequently.
11. The officers may appear separately for each subject 
and at different occasions. However, for a pass, officers 
should obtain at least 40% of the total marks for each subject.
12. commissioner general of Examinations will release 
the results of the examination to the director general of 
combined services and the results will be published in 
the website of Ministry of Public administration, disaster 
Management and Rural Economic affairs.
13. Scheme of Examination.– Examination consists of 2 
questions papers
01. Subject No. (01) - General Administration and 
financial Procedure - (100 marks)
• Part I - General Administration -Duration - 
1 1/2 hours (50 marks).
(a) chapters Vi to Viii and Xii, XiV , XXiV , 
XXVii, XXViii of the Establishment 
code are included.
(b) Procedural Rules of Public service 
commission published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009.
(c) sri Lanka Library association 
(incorporation) act, No:20 of 1974 and 
amended act, No:7 of 2004.
• Part II - Financial Procedure -Duration -                
1 1/2 hours (50 marks).
(d) financial Regulations - (Except chapter X)
 accounting activities of libraries and 
related regulations.
02. subject No. (02) -Library organizations - duration 
03 hours - (100 marks)
(a)  Provincial Library charter.
(b)  Library committees
(c)  conversation of library materials.
(d)  user education and public relations.
(e)  types of Libraries and services.
(f) simple principles and methodologies of 
library management.
(g) Extension services that can be implemented 
in a library.
N.B.– candidates should obtain 40% of marks for 
each subject to pass this Examination.
14. the decision of the director general of combined 
Services will be final in respect of any matter not provided 
for in this notification.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2563
15. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
 K.V .P.M.J. gaMage,
 director general of combined services, 
 Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
 Rural Economic affairs.
Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
Rural Economic affairs, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
19 th of July 2019.
(For Office use only) 
sPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM
efficiency bar exaMination for officers in grade iii of the sri LanKa
governMent Librarians’ service - 2017(ii)2019
Medium of Language in which you are appearing  the service to which you belong 
for the exam   (Please refer Note of para 1.0 of the Gazette
  Sinhala - 2 Notification carefully before filling this section)
  t amil  - 3  
  English - 4
  (indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
 
1.0 1.1  Name in full (in Block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (E.g : HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Names with initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (E.g: guNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K)
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.0  Place of work and address:-
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institution (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institution (In Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 gender : - female  - 1 
      Male  - 0   
                  (indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
 3.2 N.i.c No. :
4.0 subject/ subjects offering :
Subject Subject No.
4

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2564
5.0 contact Number : Mobile :                                      Office :
6.0 date of Birth :       date :                                  Month :                   year :
7.0 Present Post :-
 7.1 Post :–––––––––––––. 
 7.2 Number of the appointment Letter :–––––––––––––.
8.0 8.1  Are you applying for the examination for the first time? :–––––––––––––.
 8.2 if not, examination fees paid :–––––––––––––.
 8.3 Post office/ Sub post office or any Divisional/ District Secretariat Office :–––––––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––––.
 8.5 date :–––––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here 
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9.0  Certificate of the Candidate :
i declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that i am eligible to appear for the examination in the medium 
indicated above, and that i have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. further, i agree to abide by the 
rules and regulations imposed by commissioner general of Examinations on conducting the examination and issuance of 
results.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
10.0  Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that,
 (i) This candidate is employed in this department as an officer in Grade III of the Librarians Service.
 (ii) the particulars furnished above are correct.
 (iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form 
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the past 5 year period; and
 (iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
 (v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed. (Delete if inapplicable).
  –––––––––––––––––––
  Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
date :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
08–148

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2565
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Open/Limited – Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Accountants’ Service –2017/2018
aPPLicatioNs are called from sri Lankans, who satisfy 
the following qualifications, for recruitment to Grade III of 
sri Lanka accountants’ service. 
in this notice “service” means the sri Lanka accountants’ 
service (s.L. ac. s.)
1. Date of examination.– Examination will be held 
in November, 2019 in colombo and in Jaffna by the 
commissioner general of Examinations. the Public 
service commission reserves the right to postpone/cancel 
the Examination.
2. Number of Vacancies to be filled through this 
examination is as follows :
         open      - 86
 Limited  - 60
3. Method of Recruitment.– candidates who have scored 
40% of marks or above in each subject at the written 
examination shall be called for the interview in order of merit 
of the aggregate marks and the selection for appointment will 
be made by the Board of interview appointed by the Public 
Service Commission on perusal of their qualifications.
   
3.1  Number of persons to be appointed to the said 
post and the effective date of appointment to be  
determined by the order of the Public service 
commission. the Public service commission 
has  authority to fill any number of vacancies or 
all the vacancies.
4. Qualifications:-
4.1 open competitive Examination :
     (a)  Educational Qualifications :
 (i) should possess a degree in commerce, 
Management, accountancy or Economics 
from a university recognized by the 
university grants commission ;
                                          or
 (ii) should be a holder of a Higher diploma 
in accountancy or commerce from the                                                                                                  
sri Lanka technical college or sri Lanka 
institute of advanced technological Education;
or
 (iii) should have passed the Licentiate ii or 
intermediate Examination or accounting 
and Business Certificate Examination II or 
Business Level Examination or any other 
higher examination of the  institute of 
chartered accountants of sri Lanka or an 
institute of chartered accountants in any 
other commonwealth country ; 
            or 
 (iv) should have passed the Parts i and ii of costs 
and management Examination or Higher 
Examination conducted by the chartered 
institute of Management accountants 
of the united Kingdom or in any other 
commonwealth country;
                                       or 
 (v) should have passed the first Professional 
Level or Higher Level Examination of the 
Institute of Certified Accountants of the 
united Kingdom or any other commonwealth 
country;
                                      or 
 (vi) should have passed parts i and ii Examination 
or higher Level Examination of association 
of charted certified Accountants of United 
Kingdom or in any other commonwealth 
country;
                                    or 
 (vii) Should have passed the final Examination 
of the institute of chartered secretaries and 
Managers of the united Kingdom.
(b) Physical Fitness.– all candidates should be 
physically fit in all aspects to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka.
(c) Other Qualifications :
 (i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka ;
 (ii) should be of excellent  moral character ;
 (iii) No candidate will be permitted to sit for the 
open competitive Examination (including 
the special open competitive Examination 
held for Northern and Eastern Provinces) held 
for the recruitment to sri Lanka accountants’ 
service, more than two occasions.
 (iv) a person holding priesthood in any of the 
religious sects will be ineligible to sit this 
examination.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2566
 (v) A person will be deemed as qualified to sit the 
competitive Examination for  appointment 
to the service, if  the candidate has fulfilled 
necessary qualification in Para 4.1 (a) in all 
respects as at 02
nd august 2019.
(d) Age.– candidate should not be less than 22 
years and not more than 30 years as at  02nd 
august 2019  (Maximum age will be considered 
as 30 years strictly for this occasion).
4.2  Limited Competitive examination :
     (a)  Qualifications for Experience :
 (i) Possession of any of the qualifications 
set out in Para 4.1 (a) above with not less 
than 5 years of satisfactory, uninterrupted 
permanent service in the Public service or 
in the Provincial Public service on 02nd 
august 2019  having earned a minimum of 
5 increments on the due date ;
                                            or
 (ii)  Possession of not less than 10 years 
satisfactory period of service in the Public 
service or in the Provincial Public service 
in a permanent and pensionable post which 
carries the salary scale of MN 1- 2006 (a) 
or above having earned a minimum of 10  
increment on the due date.
(b) Physical Fitness.– all candidates must be 
physically fit in all aspects to serve in any 
part of sri Lanka.
(c)  Other Qualifications :-
 (i) candidates must be of excellent moral 
character.
 (ii) should have earned all the increments on 
due dates during the five years immediately 
preceding the date of gaining eligibility.
(iii)  Possession of five years satisfactory 
service during the five years immediately 
preceding 02
nd august 2019.
(iv)  No candidate will be permitted to sit for 
the Limited competitive Examination 
(including the special Limited competitive 
Examination held for Northern and Eastern 
provinces) held for the recruitment to sri 
Lanka accountants’ service, more than 
two occasions. 
 (v) any person holding priesthood in any of 
the religious sects will be ineligible to sit 
this examination.
 (vi) A person will be deemed as qualified  
to sit the competitive examination for 
appointment to service, if the candidate has 
fulfilled necessary qualifications in Para 
4.2 (a) in all respects  as at 02
nd august 
2019.
5. Conditions of Service. – this appointment shall be 
subject to general conditions governing the appointments of 
the Public service, procedural rules of the Public service 
commission, Establishments code of the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations of 
the government and other departmental orders.  a selected 
candidate will be appointed to the grade iii of sri Lanka   
accountants’ service subject to conditions prescribed in 
the minute of the sri Lanka accountants’ service published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka No. 1670/33 dated 10
th of september 
2010 and the amendments made thereto or to be made 
hereafter.
(a) For the officers appointed under open stream, 
this post is permanent and pensionable. you are 
subjected to the policy decisions taken by the 
government on the pension scheme to which 
you are entitled, in future. you are required to 
make contributions to the Widows’/ Widowers’ 
and orphans’ Pension scheme. accordingly, you 
should make contributions as prescribed by the 
government from time to time. 
 For the officers appointed under limited stream, 
this post is permanent. you are subjected to the 
policy decisions taken by the government on 
the pension scheme to which you are entitled, in 
future.
(b) The officers who are appointed shall be subjected 
to a probation period of three years. they should 
pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination 
prescribed for the officers of the Sri Lanka 
accountant’s services within 03 years from the 
date of appointment.
(c) The officers shall prove that they have acquired 
the proficiency in official language within 5 
years in terms of the Public administration 
circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars 
incidental thereto.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2567
6.  Structure and Monthly Salary Scales :
sL 1-2016-Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335- 8x1,630 – 17x2,170 – 
Rs. 110,895.  
(salaries shall be paid as mentioned in schedule ii in line 
with the provisions in Public administration circular No. 
03/2016 dated 25.02.2016)
7.  Examination Fee.– the fee for the open competitive 
Examination is Rs. 1,000. the fee for the Limited 
competitive Examination is Rs. 1,000. if a candidate applies 
for both Examinations the total fee is Rs. 1500. this fee 
should be paid before closing date of applications at any of 
the Post/ Sub Post office in the island in order to credit to the 
Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner general 
of Examinations. The receipt issued from the Post Office 
should be pasted to the relevant cage in the application form. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the 
applicants. the fee is nonrefundable. further, no stamps or 
vouchers are accepted as the examination fees. 
8.  Method of Application :-
(a) the applications should be prepared strictly in 
accordance with the specimen form annexed to 
this notification; using both sides of a paper size 
A4 and should be filled by the candidate himself.
(b) item No.  01 to 03 of the application should be 
on the first page. The application should be in the 
Language in which the candidate is eligible to sit 
the examination. the name of the examination 
should be written in English in both sinhala 
and tamil applications. applications which 
are not complying to the prescribed specimen 
application form and incomplete shall be rejected 
without notice. the loss cause by not completing 
the application shall be borne by the applicants 
themselves. it is advisable to keep a copy of the 
application and the applicant should make sure to 
prepare the application in line with the specimen 
form in the notification of examination. Unless, 
the application may be rejected. 
(c) the applications for the open competitive 
Examination should be sent by Registered 
Post to reach the commissioner general of 
Examinations, organizations (institutional and 
foreign Examinations) Branch, department 
of Examinations of sri Lanka, P.o. Box 1503, 
colombo on or before 02
nd september 2019. 
“open competitive Examination/accountants- 
2017/2018” should be clearly written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application. No application received after that 
date will be accepted.
Note - applicants who are already in Public service/
Provincial Public service/state corporations 
should forward their applications through their 
Head of departments/institutions.
(d) the applications for the Limited competitive 
Examination must be forwarded through the 
Head of department to reach the commissioner 
general of Examinations, organizations 
(institutional and foreign Examinations) Branch, 
department of Examinations of sri Lanka, P.o. 
Box 1503, colombo on or before 02
nd september 
2019. “Limited competitive Examination/
accountants- 2017/2018” should be clearly 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. No application 
received after that date will be accepted.  
 if a candidate is sitting for both examinations, 
“open/Limited   competitive Examination /
accountants – 2017/2018” should be written on 
the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
(e) the post and the working place of the applicants 
at the time of applying for the examination 
are related to all matters pertaining to the 
examination and any change in that respect will 
not be considered thereafter.
(f) a  press notice to that effect will be published 
in the newspapers by the department of 
Examination, sri Lanka as soon as the admission 
cards are dispatched to the respective candidates. 
if admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement steps should be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
it would be advisable to keep the  following 
in hand at the time of calling  the department 
of Examinations ;i.e. a certified photocopy of 
the application form and the receipt at your 
possession, receipt of registration and in case 
of applicants outside colombo, letter of request 
furnishing a fax number  to which admission 
cards should be sent.        
9.  Admission to the examination :-
(a) the commissioner-general of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to every person who has 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2568
sent a perfected application on the assumption 
that applications have been sent by those who 
have completed the qualifications mentioned in 
the Gazette. a candidate presenting himself for 
the examination must produce his admission 
Card with signature certified, to the Supervisor of 
the Examination centre. a candidate, who fails to 
produce his admission card, will not be permitted 
to sit the Examination.
(b) the candidate must sit the Examination at 
the Examination Hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate should hand over their admission card 
of the relevant examination hall to the supervisor 
of the Examination Centre on the first day 
presenting himself for the examination at the hall. 
a set of rules to be observed by all candidates are 
published in the Gazette.
(c) the issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she has the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
(d) all candidates are bound to abide by the rules 
laid down by the commissioner-general of 
Examinations.  a candidate who violates any of 
those rules is liable to punishment at the discretion 
of the commissioner-general of Examinations.
10. Identity of the Candidate. – a candidate will be 
required to prove his/her identity   at the Examination Hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the Examination 
centre for each subject he/she offers. for this purpose, one   
of the following documents will be accepted.
 i.  National identity card;
 ii. Valid passport. 
 iii. Valid driving license
candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering their face and ears in order to prove their identity. 
further, any candidate who refuses to assist for proving his/
her identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. the candidates should remain in the examination hall 
from the time of entering up to leaving the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling the invigilators to 
identify the candidate. However, a candidate may be allowed 
to appear for the examination if any objection is made by 
such candidate regarding this condition. Results will not be 
issued to such candidate since it is not possible to prove the 
identity of the candidate.   
11.  Furnishing False Information.– if a candidate is found 
to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. if any 
of the particulars furnished by candidate is found incorrect 
and has been done so within the knowledge of him or if he 
has willfully suppressed a material fact, he will be liable to 
dismissal from the Public service.
12.  any matter not provided in these regulations will be 
dealt with as determined by the Public service commission.
13.  Scheme of examination :-
(i)  Language of Examination:
 (a) the Examination will be held in sinhala, tamil 
and English
 (b) a  candidate can sit for the examination in the 
language he/she passed the examination from 
which he/she became qualified or in official 
language
 (c) if any candidate has passed the subjects of 
the examination from which he/she became 
qualified, in two or more languages, he/she 
shall sit for the examination in the language he/
she passed most of the subjects.
 (d) if any candidate who holds a special degree in 
which he/she passed the main subject in one 
language and additional subject in another 
language, shall sit for the examination in the 
language he/she passed the main subject.
Note:- 
 I. “examination from which he/she became qualified” 
mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) means the examinations 
indicated in para 4.1 (a)
 ii. a  candidate must sit all the papers of examination 
in one and the same language.
 iii.  a candidate will not be permitted to change the 
medium of the examination given in his application.
14.  Method of Testing :-
(a) a  written examination consisting of the following 
subjects : all the question papers consist 
compulsory questions and the candidates should 
answer all the questions.
 (i) financial accounting Paper i - 3 hours – 100 
marks
 (ii) financial accounting Paper ii  - 3 hours – 
100 marks

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2569
 (iii) cost and Management accounting  - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (iv) auditing and investigations  - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (v) general intelligence and comprehension - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (vi) Public finance Management  - 3 hours – 100 marks
syllabus is given in at the end of this notice.
(b) Interview :-
only candidates who secured a minimum of 40% marks in each subject at the written examination will be summoned for 
the interview. the number of candidates to be called for the interview will be determined by the Public service commission 
in order of merit of the marks obtained by the candidates at the written examination and according to the number of existing 
vacancies as the case may be. Results of the written examination will be sent to all candidates by the commissioner general 
of department of Examination on instructions of the Public service commission.
 15.  in the event of any inconsistency between the notice published in sinhala, tamil and English languages, the notice 
published in sinhala medium shall prevail.
16.  Method of Selection for Appointment.– candidates who have scored higher marks in order of the merit at the open 
and Limited Examinations and duly filled basic qualifications at the interview will be selected.  Marks will not be given for 
interview.   In the event of candidate having tied for a place, the final decision on the selection for such a place will be made 
by the Public service commission.
By order of the Public service commission,
 J.J. rathnasiri,
 secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management
 and Rural Economic affairs.
Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management
 and Rural Economic affairs,
colombo 07,
July, 2019.
aPPLicatioN
oPen/LiMited coMPetitive exaMination for recruitMent to  grade iii of the sri LanKa 
accountants’ service – 2017/2018
index No : 
(for official use only)
town in which the applicant sits for the examination town No.
indicate the town Number in which the applicant sit for the examination and the number of the same. 
(colombo 1, Jaffna 2)
Medium of the Examination: 
sinhala 2 tamil 3, English 4, 
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
changing of given medium is not permitted
indicate whether the candidate applies for open/Limited Examination or Both
Limited – 1  open-2        Both -3
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
•	 it is not allowed to change the examination applied for, at a later occasion

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2570
1.0 Name: 
  1.1.  full Name (in English Block Letters) :–––––––––––––.
   (ex. HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa  guNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2 Name with initials at the end (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (Ex: guNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K.)
  1.3 full Name :–––––––––––––.   
   (in sinhala/tamil)  
2.0 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
 (in English capital letters) 
  2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil) 
  2.2 Official address :–––––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)  
  2.3 Official address :–––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil) 
  2.4 address to which the admission card should be sent: (in English capital Letters) :–––––––––––––.
   (Officer in Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Corporations should mention his official address and any 
subsequent change should be notified immediately.)
3.0  3.1  National identity card No. :
  3.2 sex :   female - 1,     Male - 0  (Please write relevant number)   
    
  3.3 Marital status :-  Married - 1           single - 2  (Please write relevant number)                  
  3.4 Mobile phone number : 
     
  3.5 date of Birth :  y ear :          Month :        date :  
 
  3.6 age as at 02nd august 2019:  years:       Months :                         days:  
4.0  (To be filled by candidates for the Open Competitive Examination) Please State : 
  4.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this Examination under Para 4.1 :–––––––––––––.
  4.1 The Institutions from which such qualification has been obtained :–––––––––––––.
5.0  (To be filled by candidates for the Limited Competitive Examination) Please State.
  5.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this Examination under Para 4.2 :–––––––––––––.
     5.2 The Institutions from which such qualification has been obtained : 
   (a)
Department Post From              To Period
 
   (b) (i) service/Post :–––––––––––––.
     (ii) class  : from                        to
     (iii) class  : from                        to
     (iv) total service period  under the government as at 02nd august 2019.  :
      y ears :–––––––––––––.  Months :–––––––––––––.
      (a) service in  ii above   :  y ears : ..........................   Months : ......................
                 (b) service in  iii above  :  y ears : ..........................   Months : ......................
           (v) annual salary as at 02nd august 2019 :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2571
6.0  6.1 the  years in which you have sat the Limited competitive Examination for recruitment to the sri Lanka accountants’ 
service (including the special Limited competitive Examination held for Northern and Eastern provinces).
          y ears : 
     1. .......................  
               2..........................
           3..........................
  6.2 the  years in which you have sat the open  competitive Examination for recruitment to the sri Lanka accountants’ 
service(including the special open competitive Examination held for Northern and Eastern provinces).
           y ears: 
     1. .......................
     2. .......................
     3. .......................
7.0 The cash receipt should be pasted to the application firmly:
To affix the receipt of the examination fees (Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
     (i) amount Paid : Rs.................................. (iii) Receipt No. : ................................
     (ii)  Place of amount paid: ................................. (iv)  date of payment ....................
8.0 Certificate by Candidate :
  8.1 i declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the information given in this form is true and that i have 
affixed receipt No….. dated …………….. being payment of the Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the 
rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to during or 
after the examination if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of the examination. further, i 
declare that i shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
with regard to issuance of the results. 
  8.2 I declare that during the five years preceding  02
nd august 2019  i have earned all the increment (excluding those 
conditional to passing service or departmental examination) and that i have not been subject to any form of 
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) for any offence committed during the immediate proceeding five  
years. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
9.0  9.1 Certificate of the Head of Department:  (To be filled by candidates for the Open Competitive Examination only 
where relevant and by all candidates for the Limited competitive Examination) the Head of institution in which 
the applicant personal file  is been maintained, should sign as the Head of the Institution.
     I   hereby certify that the candidate named …………. …………….has been serving in this office since 
…….. and  his/her  work and conduct has been satisfactory and i have checked all the particulars mentioned in Para 
6 above with the records available in the office and found that they are correct and He/ She has paid  the prescribed 
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein  and that she/he has signed  in  my  presence on …………. 
2019.  
                                             –––––––––––––––––,
   signature of the Head of the department.
date :–––––––––––––.  
attester’s full Name :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
address :  (should be supported by a Rubber stamp) :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2572
  9.2 Attestation  (To be filled by candidates for the Open Competitive Examination only where relevant.)
     i do  hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss   ….. ……………who forwards this application  is known to me 
personally and placed his/her signature in  my  presence on this …….. day of ……………2016 and that he/she has 
paid the relevant examination fee and affixed the receipt obtained thus. 
       
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester and seal.
attester’s full Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––. 
Note :   the signature of the applicant should be attested in the application and also in the admission card. an applicant 
who is forwarding the application through any institution should get his/her signature attested by the Head 
of the Institution or by any other officer authorized by him and other applicants should get their signature 
attested by a Head of a government school, grama Nladhari of the relevant division, a Justice of the Peace, 
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public or a permanent officer in the Staff Grade of the Public 
service or Provincial Public service. 
Appendix I
Particulars regarding open/Limited competitive Examinations conducted for appointment to the sri Lanka accountants 
service.
the examination will consist of the following examination papers.
No. Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks Time
1 financial accountancy -i 100 40 03 hours
2 financial accountancy -ii 100 40 03 hours
3 cost and Management accountancy 100 40 03 hours
4 auditing and investigation 100 40 03 hours
5 general intelligence and comprehension 100 40 03 hours
6 Public financial Management 100 40 03 hours
Syllabus:
Subject No. 01 and 02  - financial Accountancy I and II
Purpose of financial accountancy and users of accounts and information required by them.
Accounting Principles :
accounting Equation, double Entry Book keeping and accounting systems, Prime Entry Books and Ledgers. trial 
balance, accumulated pre-payments and adjustments, capital Expenditure and income, depreciations, suspense accounts, 
correction of Errors, control accounts, Reconciliation statements, incomplete records.
Final Accounts :
Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Profit and Loss Accounts, Balance Sheet, Fund Flow  Statement and Appropriation 
account.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2573
Accounting for Partnerships :
Partnership agreements, Book keeping for partnerships, 
fixed capital accounts, current accounts, accounting for 
debts, drawing accounts, Preparation of final accounts for 
Partnerships, changes in the composition of a Partnership, 
treatment of goodwill and action on other assets and 
liabilities in admission of partners and dissolution of 
partnerships, Joint ventures.
Accounting for Limited liability Companies :
Nature of Limited liability companies, Public listed 
companies and share market/share and loan capital, 
Distributable profits, Final Accounts for internal and external 
use, Defining Statements of Accounts, Interpretation of 
financial statements, Accounting ratios.
Accounting for Specialized Transactions :
societies and associations, consignments, Branches, 
hire purchase and credit sale, Leasing, investments, bill  of 
exchange, long-term contracts, royalties, container accounts, 
foreign currency transactions.
Application of Computers for accounting :
types of computer/Hardware and software, computer 
operating  software, Electronic spreadsheets, computer 
based accounting.
Subject No. 03 – Cost and management Accounting
cost accounting, financial accounting and Management 
accounting, Purpose of cost accounting. accounting as a 
management aid.
Material Cost :
Purchasing procedures, store Routines, Methods of 
valuing material issues, incentive allowances, and  bonuses.
Labour Cost :
time keeping, time allocations, methods of remuneration, 
payment of incentive allowances and bonuses, accounting 
for salaries and wages.
Overhead Costs :
allocation and apportionment of costs, absorption 
methods, overhead administration & distribution, selling  
and  distributions.
Integrated and non-integrated Accounts :
Cost control account, reconciliation of costs and financial 
accounts, integral accounts.
Methods of Costing :
contract costing, Job costing, departmental costing, 
Batch costing, Process costing, unit costing, services 
Costing, unrealized profits under different methods of 
costing.
Marginal Costing :
contributions/sales, break-even charts, application of 
marginal costing, accounting entries in marginal costing.
Standard Costing :
standard costs, actual costs, basic variances, accounting 
procedures.
Budgetary Control :
Functional budgets, master budgets, flexible budgetary 
control, continuous budgeting, operation of budgetary 
control.
Subject No. 4. Auditing and Investigation
the nature and objectives of auditing  -  the role of the 
auditor
internal audit, external audit, statutory – in relation to 
the government departments, Ministries and corporations 
under the constitution of sri Lanka and finance act, No. 
38 of 1971 relating to Non-statutory-under companies act, 
No. 17 of 1982 – auditing standards, auditing opinions, 
auditing concepts, independence and other  personal 
qualities of auditor, Evidence, truthfulness and fairness, 
Materialism, audit Risk, auditors Responsibilities, 
Responsibilities of person subjected to auditing.
Scope and Limitations :
determining  the scope, assumptions and limitations, 
Role of auditing standards and guidelines.
the role of engagement letters, Management letters 
and representation   letters, Basic auditing  methods and 
Evaluation of internal control procedures.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2574
Quantity charts, Questionnaires
audit Planning and control
Audit Planning, timing, interim and final audits, 
assignment of responsibilities for functions, audit control, 
Recording the work done including the use of internal 
control, prepared questionnaires and forms for evaluation of 
internal control.
Values, Concepts and Characteristics for financial 
auditing.
its relevance to the Public sector, analytical auditing.
auditing   of computerized accounting systems – 
auditing Limited companies
statutory books, powers and duties of directors, 
Divisional profits, Appointment of auditors, wages and 
removals. action to be taken before accepting new auditors,  
Powers  and duties of auditors.
Nature  and  extent of inspections.
compliance  inspections, independent inspections, 
Sample techniques, Balance sheet verifications, Verification 
of income and expenditure accounts.
Professional responsibilities of auditors and accountants
Professional conduct and ethics legal  rights  and 
responsibilities, Legal responsibility of accountant and 
auditor and Law relating to the subject of knowledge on 
incidents.
Investigations :
Planning the scope of investigations, techniques and 
procedures to be used, Examples of intention for conducting 
investigations, feasibility studies Evaluation of business 
institutions for the purchase, sale, credit rating etc., 
accountant’s and auditor’s reports for prospectus, Reporting 
activities, fraud investigations, Project evaluations.
Reporting functions
Reporting to the manage ment about the weaknesses in 
the internal control systems, special reporting functions 
relating to government and corporation audits, Reports for 
the prospectus, Reports on investigations.
Subject No. 5 – General Intelligence and 
Comprehension
Part  ‘a’
Questions will be asked from candidates based on a 
passage given  in the comprehension question paper. another 
passage is given and the candidates have to summarize it to 
one third of  the original number of words giving its prime 
meaning.
Part  ‘b’
intelligence 
subject No. 6 - Public financial Management
Legal framework of Public finance
the consolidated fund, special Law Expenditure, 
contingencies fund, Public debt. foreign  aid, fiscal 
Measures.
the Role of the Parliament, the Minister of finance, the 
treasury, the auditor general, Public accounts committee, 
committee on Public Enterprises, the chief accounting 
Officer, Department of national Planning Monetary Board.
the annual appropriation Bill.
Budgetary system and Procedures, annual estimates of 
Revenue and Expenditure.
Budget implementation
organizational structure for the implementation of the 
budget, Revenue collection procedures, imprest for making 
payments, Supervision of financial operations, Delegation 
of functions, Virement procedure, supplementary estimates, 
Budgetary control, Procurement Procedure.
government accounting systems and Procedures
custody, security and control of government properties, 
accounting for revenue and other receipts, accounting for 
foreign aid, accounting for losses, waivers and write-offs.
Review :
flash reports summary of monthly accounts, Review of 
financial and physical performance, the annual appropriation 
account, the auditor general’s  report on the island’s 
accounts, the report of the Public accounts committee, the 
report of the committee on Public Enterprises.
08–208

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2575
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Public Administration, Disaster management and Rural Economic Affairs
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN to fiLL tHE V acaNciEs iN gRadE iii of sRi LaNKa sciENtific 
sERVicE - 2018 (2019) 
aPPLicatioNs are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination to fill 
37 vacancies in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientific Service in following Departments and Ministries on the order of the 
Public service commission. the examination is due to be held in November 2019. applications prepared in line with the 
specimen application indicated at the end of this notification should be sent by registered post on or before the closing date 
of application to reach commissioner general of Examinations, organization (Establishment and foreign Examination) 
Branch, Department of Examination Sri Lanka, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo. "Open Competitive Examination to fill Vacancies 
in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientific Service- 2018 (2019)" should be clearly indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. 
further, the name of the examination should be indicated in English in sinhala and tamil applications along with sinhala 
or tamil languages.
Serial
No
Department to which the 
vacant post belongs Designation No of
Vacancies
Code 
No.
01 department of government
analyst
assistant analyst 27 01
assistant Examiner of Questioned documents 04 02
02 department of Wildlife
conservation
deputy director/
assistant director 03 03
03 department of irrigation geologist 02 04
04 department of Labour Research officer (occupational Health) 01 05
• Closing date of application is 30/08/2019
Note.– No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. the 
loss which may occur by delaying the applications should be borne by the candidates themselves.
When an applicant applies for more than one post, he/she should not submit separate applications but mention the 
preference in order, in one and the same application. the order of the preference cannot be changed at a later occasion.
01. Method of Recruitment to the Service.– Recruitment shall be made on the results of a written examination, on 
the order of the highest marks obtained and the preferences out of those who secure 40% of marks for each question paper. 
Number of persons to be called for interview shall be determined by the Public Service Commission and the qualifications 
of the applicants shall be verified by a board of interview appointed by the Public Services Commission. No marks shall be 
allocated for the interview.
Note.- When applying for the post of assistant Examiner of Questioned documents in the department of 
Government Analyst, two (02) posts out of four (04) vacancies shall be filled in line with the educational 
qualifications (a), (b), and (c) of (04) in the recruitment notification and the other two posts shall be filled 
under (d), (e) and (f).
02. Conditions of engaging in service :
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. you are bound to the policy decisions taken by the government 
with regard to the pension scheme you are entitled to. further you shall contribute to Widows and 
orphans/ Widowers' and orphans Pension scheme. you shall make the contributions as determined by 
the government from time to time.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2576
 ii. The officers appointed to the post are subjected to a probation period of 03 years and the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination should be passed within the period of said 03 years.
 iii.  as per the provision in the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and consequent 
circulars the proficiency level of the other official language should be obtained within 05 years. Officers 
who join the service in a non-official language, should obtain the proficiency in one of the official 
languages within a period of 03 years and the relevant proficiency level in other official language should 
be acquired within five (05) years.
 iV .  the appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public service commission, the provisions 
in the service minute of the Scientific Service published on the Gazette No. 1877/27 dated 28
th august 
2014 and accordingly the conditions of the approved recruitment procedures of each department.
03. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of Rs. 47,615 -10X1,335-8X1,630-17X2170 
- Rs. 110,895 (sL-1-2016) as per the Public administration circular 03/2016. (your salary is paid as per the provisions in 
schedule ii of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016)
04. Educational Qualifications:
Serial
No.
Department Post educational and other Qualifications
01 department of 
government analyst
1. assistant  
government  
analyst
Shall have obtained
(a) Bachelor of science special degree in chemistry 
with a first or second class
or
(b) Bachelor of science special degree in chemistry 
with a general pass and a Post graduate degree in 
chemistry
or
(c) Bachelor of science general degree with chemistry 
as a subject and a Post graduate degree in chemistry
from a university recognized by the university grants 
commission
2. assistant Examiner 
of Questioned 
documents
shall have obtained
(a) Bachelor of science special degree in Physics or 
chemistry with first or second class
or
(b) Bachelor of science special degree in chemistry or 
Physics with a general pass and a Post graduate degree 
in chemistry or physics
or
(c) Bachelor of science general degree with chemistry 
or Physics as a subject and a Post graduate degree in 
chemistry or Physics
from a university recognized by the university grants 
commission
shall have passed g.c.E. (a/L) in science stream and shall 
have obtained

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2577
Serial
No.
Department Post educational and other Qualifications
(d) a special degree in computer science or information 
technology with first or second class
or
(e) a special degree in computer science or information 
technology with a general pass and a Post graduate 
degree in computer science or information technology
or
(f) a general degree in computer science or information 
technology and a Post graduate degree in computer 
science or information technology from a university 
recognized by the university grants commission
02 department of Wild 
life cnservation
deputy director/
assistant director
shall have obtained
(a)     Bachelor of science special degree in Biology and 
Botany with first or second class 
or
(b) Bachelor of science special degree with first or 
second class in Zoology with Botany and Biology as 
subjects
or
(c) Bachelor of science special degree with first or 
second class in chemistry with Botany, Biology, 
forestry, Natural resource Management as a subject
or
(d) Bachelor of science special degree in Ecology or 
agriculture or Natural Resource Management with a 
first or second class
or
(e) Bachelor of science general degree with a first or 
second class with two subjects out of Zoology, Botany 
or Biology
or
(f) Bachelor of science special or general degree in any 
of the following, Ecology, Environmental conservation 
and Management, Plant Biotechnology,
        Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, animal science 
and fisheries with a first or second class
or
(g) Bachelor of science general degree and a Post 
graduate degree in Wildlife conservation or 
Wildlife Management or forestry or Environmental 
conservation.
from a university recognized by university grants 
commission or an institution recognized by university grants 
commission as an degree awarding institute

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2578
Serial
No.
Department Post educational and other Qualifications
03 department of 
irrigation
geologist shall have obtained
(a) Bachelor of science special degree in geology
or
(b) Bachelor of science general degree with a first or a 
second class with geology as a main subject
from a university recognized by university grants 
commission or an institution recognized by university 
grants commission as an degree awarding institute
04 department of 
Labour
Research Officer
(occupational
Health)
shall have obtained
(a) Bachelor of science special degree in chemistry with 
a frist or second class
or
(b) a Postgraduate degree in chemistry, industrial 
toxicology, industrial Hygiene or Environmental 
applied chemistry 
from a university recognized by university grants 
commission or an institution recognized by university 
grants commission as an degree awarding institute 
or
(c) Membership of institute of chemistry ceylon or Royal 
society of chemistry in ireland or great Britain
05. Age Limit.– Minimum age of 22 years and maximum age of 36 years as at the closing date of application. 
Accordingly, the age requirement is satisfied by the individuals whose date of birth is fallen on or before 30.08.1997 and on 
or later 30.08.1983.
06. Physical Qualifications.– All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the 
island and to perform the duties of the post.
07. Other Qualifications :
 i. applicants should be citizens of sri Lanka ;
 ii. applicants should be of good character ;
 iii. No applicant should be ordained in any religious sect ;
 iV . Should have not appeared for open competitive examination of Sri Lanka Scientific Service more than 
two times ;
 V.  The qualifications required for the recruitment to the post should have been fulfilled in each and every 
way as at the closing date of applications mentioned in the notification calling for application.
08.  8.1 Written examination :
  8.1.1 the examination shall be conducted by the commissioner general of Examinations. 
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
1. intelligence t est 01 hour 100 40
2. general Question Paper 03 hours 100 40

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2579
  8.1.2  Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
1. intelligence test
this paper which is designed to test the candidate's ability of critical 
reasoning, general intelligence and ability of decision making shall 
consist of 50 questions of multiple choice.
2. general Question paper this is a question paper which aims at testing general knowledge 
and it shall be designed to test the understanding of the candidate on 
political, social, cultural and economic environment of sri Lanka, 
matters which are currently important in national and international 
aspects and national and international scientific and technical 
development. this question paper shall consist of two parts. the 
first part shall consist of questions for short answers and 25 marks 
shall be allocated. the second part shall consist of questions 
in structured nature. there are 05 questions and all should be 
answered. 75 Marks
  8.1.3 Nature of the Question Paper :
 1. intelligence test: a Multiple choice Question Paper with 50 questions and 04 choices for 
each question. all the questions should be answered (Marks 2 X50 = 100)
 2. general Question Paper: this paper consists of 02 parts
  Part i: 25 Questions to which short answers are required (Marks 1X25= 25)
  Part ii: 05 semi structured Questions (Marks 15 X 5 = 75)
  all the questions should be answered.
 8.2  Results of the examination :
  The results sheet with the names of the qualified applicants from the written examination will be sent to 
the secretary, Public service commission. Results will be personally informed to those who appeared at 
the examination or published on the website www.results.exams.gov.lk
09.  Conditions of the examination :
 i. this Examinat ion will be held in November 2019 in colombo
 ii. this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English media. candidates can appear for the 
examination in any language he/she prefers. candidates should answer all the questions in one language. 
candidates are not allowed to change the language medium applied initially. Every candidate should 
appear for all the question papers.
 iii. The examination fee is Rs.600/= This fee can be paid to any Post Office/ Sub Post Office or District/ 
divisional secretariat under the head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner general of Examination. one 
edge of the receipt obtained thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application so as not to be 
detached. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
 iV . the application should be prepared on paper of size 22cm X 29cm (a-4) and titles 1.0 to 3.11 appear 
on the first side of the paper and titles from 3.12 on the other pages. Application should be filled by the 
candidate in his/her own handwriting. applications that do not comply with the specimen and that are 
not completed in every aspect shall be rejected without notice. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with candidate. it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/ her complies with the specimen given in the examination notice as otherwise 
the application may be rejected. Prepare the applications in line with the specimen application attached 
herewith.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2580
Note:- A duly perfected application can be downloaded from the official website of the Ministry of Public 
administration, Management and Law & order (www.pubad.gov.lk) for your convenience.
Penalty for furnishing false information.– the candidate should be very careful to include the correct particulars 
in the application. if it is found that any candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination 
his/her candidature can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination. further, if it is found that any 
information furnished by a candidate is false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public service.
 V. Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. the commissioner-general of Examinations shall 
issue admission cards to all the candidates on the assumption that only the individuals who have satisfied 
the qualifications in the Gazette notification have applied for the examination. A notice shall be published 
in the newspapers by the department of Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be taken 
to inquire from organization and foreign Examination Branch of the department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the notification. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time 
of calling the Department of Examinations: i.e. certified photocopies of the application form and the 
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside colombo, letter 
of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the receipt of registration of the application to prove any information requested by the department of 
Examinations.
Note:- No candidate is allowed to enter the examination hall without the admission card. the admission card 
in which the signature of the candidate is attested should be presented to the supervisor on the date of 
commencement of the examination.
  the issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required 
qualifications to sit the examination.
 Vi. the commissioner general of examination reserves the right to postpone or cancel the examination on 
the approval of the Public service commission.
 Vii. candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examination for the purpose of conducting examinations and release of results and they shall be liable to 
be subjected to any punishment imposed by commissioner general of Examination for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
 Viii. Identity of the Candidate.– a candidate shall be required to prove his identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents shall be accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons:
 (ii) a valid passport.
 (iii) a valid driving License
N.B.
 (a) No document or a copy should be attached to the application
 (b) applications of the candidates who fail to submit relevant documents at a time of informing to do so 
shall not be considered.
 iX. Examination fees are not refundable under any circumstance and it cannot be transferred to any other 
examination. stamps or Money orders are not accepted.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2581
10. Signature of the applicant should be attested both in the application and in the admission card. Officers who 
are serving in Public service/ Provincial Public service, government corporations should send their applications through 
their Heads of departments/ Heads of institutions. it is compulsory for the applicants to get their signatures attested before 
appearing at the examination. any applicant who is appearing for the examination through his/her institution should get his/
her signature attested by the head of the institution. signature of the other applicants should have been attested by a Principal 
of a government school, grama Niladhari, a Justice of the Peace, commissioner for oaths, Notary Public, commissioned 
Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding a staff grade post in the Public Service, Chief Incumbent of a temple or any 
religious leader in a reputed status.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission,
 J. J. 
rathnasiri, 
 secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
 Rural Economic affairs.
19th July, 2019.
Y%S ,xld úoHd;aul fiajfha iii fY%a‚fha ;k;=re mqrmamdvq msrùu i|yd jk újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2018^2019&
oPen coMPetitive exaMination for recruitMent to grade iii Posts of 
sri LanKa scientific service - 2018 (2019)
(For Office Use Only)
01. Medium:- Language medium of the examination
sinhala 2
tamil 3
English 4
   (application should be perfected in the language medium in which the candidate appears for the examination)
02. Post/Posts applied :
Designation Code Number
03. Personal information :
  3.1 Name in full (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (ex. : HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa  guNaWaRdHaNa)
  3.2. Name with initials at the end (in English Block capitals):- Mr./Mrs./Miss  :–––––––––––––.
   (ex:- guNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K.)
  3.3. Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil)  :–––––––––––––. 
  3.4. Permanent address in English Block capitals  :–––––––––––––.
   (admission cards are posted to this address)
  3.5. Permanent address (in sinhala/ tamil)  :–––––––––––––.
  3.6. Postal town/code  :–––––––––––––.
(Write relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2582
  3.7. National identity card No. :
  3.8. sex: Male - 0 female - 1     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  3.9. t elephone No : Mobile :
     Land :
  3.10  Birthday:- year :                         Month :           date :
  3.11.  age as at the closing date of the application  : years :                  Months :                       days :
 3.12. Race : sinhala -1,      tamil - 2,    i. tamil - 3,   Muslim - 4,       other - 5
 3.13. Marital status : Married - 1  unmarried - 2  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  3.14  Email address :–––––––––––––. 
4.0 Qualifications-:
  4.1 date of graduation :–––––––––––––. 
   ( Please read (4) of the notification to ensure you have this qualifications)
examination/ Degree Class Year Subjects University/ Institution
5.0 Affix the receipt so as not to be detached :
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
 Receipt No.  :–––––––––––––.
 Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which the fee was paid :–––––––––––––.
 date  :–––––––––––––.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of Law, if yes, give details :–––––––––––––.
7.0 Certification of the applicant :
i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. I am aware and declare that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment without any compensation 
and that i abide by all the rules and regulations.
  –––––––––––––––––,  
  signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2583
8.0  attestation of the signature of the applicant (according 
to 10 in Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...............................
................... whor submits this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ............................................. and further the 
officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted 
the receipt on the applications.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting 
 the signature.
date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
9.0 Report of the Head of the department/ institution :
  
(only for the applicants serving in Public/ Provincial 
Public/ government corporations)
Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................................................................
who submits this application is serving at this Ministry/ 
department as .................................. and i recommend his/
her application. Actions can be taken to release the officer 
upon selecting for this post.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
08–112
–––––––––––––––––
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST 
Of INSPECTOR Of ExCISE IN ExCISE 
DEPARTmENT Of SRI LANkA - 2018(2019)
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from sri Lankan 
candidates for thirty-Eight (38) Posts of inspector of Excise 
of the Excise department of sri Lanka.
1. General Duties of the Post.– Fulfilling duties related to 
the Excise ordinance, Poisons, opium and dangerous drugs 
Ordinance and the Tobacco Tax Act, Office Administration 
and carrying out supervisory duties.
Method of Recruitment to the Service. – a  written 
examination will be conducted by the commissioner general 
of Examination, and the candidates who are successful 
at the written examination, will be called for a structured  
interview and the qualified applicants will be recruited to 
posts based on the number of prevailing vacancies, in order of 
merit based on the aggregate marks obtained for the written 
examination and the structured interview.
Details of the Written examination :
Question Paper Time Total 
Marks
Pass Mark
01. aptitude 02 hours 100 40%
02. general Paper 02 hours 100 40%
Scheme of the examination :
Question 
Paper
Scheme of examination
01. aptitude this paper will test the candidate’s aptitude, 
ability in logical reasoning and the ability 
in decision making. (it will also consist of 
questions on Mathematics/pictorial quiz, 
synonyms/antonyms writing, making  
phrases/sentences, filling blanks)
02. general 
Paper
this paper will test the candidate’s 
awareness in current & social affairs 
of sri Lanka & the globe and general 
Knowledge
Date of Examination.– this examination will be held 
at the examination centres established in towns given 
in the undermentioned schedule 01 in November 2019. 
commissioner general of Excise reserves the right of 
postponing or cancelling this examination.
this examination will be held only at the examination 
centres established in towns given in the schedule 01. 
candidates should select the town they expect to sit for the 
examination as per said schedule and mention the town 
of their choice and the relevant number accurately on the 
application.
changes will not be allowed later with regard to the 
town mentioned in the application. in the event a certain 

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2584
examination centre is not established in a certain town due to insufficient candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their 
second choice or a centre closer to that city and in the event sufficient number of candidates have not applied to establish 
centres for all or most of the proposed towns, commissioner general of Examinations will hold the examination only in 
colombo.
Structured Interview.– candidates who are successful at the written examination, will be called for a structured interview 
and the qualified applicants will be recruited to posts based on the number of prevailing vacancies, in order of merit based 
on the aggregate marks obtained for the written examination and the structured interview. However, a certain number of 
vacancies may not be filled at the discretion of Excise Department.
Marks will be allocated for the undermentioned qualifications at the Structured Interview :
Qualifications/Skills Maximum
Mark Awarded
Minimum Mark Considered 
for Selection
1. Additional Educational Qualifications  :
      Post graduate degree, Post graduate diploma, degree in addition 
to the basic qualification and as per the Class obtained for the first 
degree
20
Not applicable
2. Language skills 10
3. sports skills
        for recorded talents displayed in various sports at National, 
Provincial, district, divisional and school level
35
4. other skills
    special training
    cadets/V oluntary service/ self defensive Martial arts or technical 
training
    Extra-curricular activities
30
5. skills demonstrated at the interview 05
total 100
02. Service Conditions :
 2.1  I.  Appointees will be bound by the Provisions of the Official Language Act, No.33 of 1956 and subsequent 
Provisions imposed.
  II. Appointees should acquire language proficiency of relevant level as per the Public Administration 
circular 01/2014 and circulars incidental to it.
  iii. conditions stipulated in Procedural Rules of the Public service commission published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the provisions of the Establishment code will be 
applicable.
  iV . Physical requirements of the candidates will be examined before the structured interview.
 2.2 i. this post is permanent. appointees will subject to the policy decision taken by the government, regarding 
the pension scheme in future. further, appointees should contribute to the Widow’s/Widower’s, orphans’ 
Pension scheme. appointees should pay the relevant contribution fee in the manner ordered by the 
government from time to time.
  ii. appointees will be ordered to serve any part of the island.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2585
   Period of Training.– selected candidates 
will be directed to a 03-month 
training. those who do not pass the 
examination held at the end of the training 
period will be terminated. in the event it is 
revealed that the trainee failed said 
examinations owing to matters beyond 
his subject limit, he can be allowed to 
re-sit the examination having extended 
the training period by anot her three 
(03) months. trainees will be paid 
a monthly consolidated allowance of                                                                                                                                             
Rs.10,000.00 during the training period.
 2.3 candidates who successfully completes the 
training will be appointed to the posts of 
Excise inspectors subject to a probationary 
period of three (03) years. if the appointees  
pass the relevant departmental examinations 
which they are required to pass at the end of 
their probationary period, such appointees 
will be made permanent in the post. 
subsequent to being appointed to the 
Post of inspector of Excise of the Excise 
department of sri Lanka, candidates are 
required to pass the first and second Efficiency 
Bar Examinations within 03 years and 06 
years respectively.
 2.4 in accordance with the Public administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and its subsequent 
amendments, and the section 9.1 of the 
scheme of Recruitment of the inspectors of 
Excise, relevant language proficiency of the 
level related to the Post of Excise inspector 
should be attained within a period of 05 years 
from the date of appointment to the post.
 2.5 commissioner general of Excise department 
of sri Lanka reserves the right to annul the 
appointment conferred to the candidates 
who fail and / or reject or ignore to assume 
duties in the post or area appointed on the due 
date.
03.  Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale attached 
to the Post as per the Public administration circular No. 
03/2016 (Rs 4-2016) Rs. 37,030 - 660 x 24 - Rs. 52,870 and 
you will be entitled to said salary with effect from 01.01. 
2020 only. salaries will be paid from the effective date of 
appointment to the post as per the provisions stipulated in 
the schedule 2 of the aforementioned circular.
04. Qualifications for Recruitment :
(a) Educational Qualifications :
 i.  should possess a degree awarded by a 
university recognized by the university 
grants commission.
 ii.  should have credit Passes for Mathematics 
and English at the General Certificate of 
Examination (ordinary Level).
(b) Physical Requirements :
 i. all candidates are required to possess 
adequate physical and mental fitness to 
serve in any part of the island and fulfill 
the duties of the post.
 ii. Minimum height (without shoes) should 
be 5 feet 06 inches. chest measurement 
should be 33 inches (83.8 cm) without 
inhalation.
 iii. Eyesight/ vision including that of identify 
items without wearing spectacles or 
contact lenses, should be at least 6/6 and 
6/12.
(c) other Requirements ;
 i. candidate should be a sri Lankan citizen.
 ii. candidate should possess an excellent 
character.
(d) Age - candidates should be not less than 21 
years and not more than 27 years of age on the 
date of closing of applications.
accordingly, those who are born on or before 30.08.1998 
and on or after 30.08.1992, are eligible to apply for this post.
(graduates who already holds departmental posts of 
the Excise department can apply as external candidates, 
irrespective of the maximum age limit, if they have fulfilled 
other necessary qualifications.)
P.S. It is compulsory to fulfill all the qualifications relevant 
to the post by all candidates on or before 30.08.2019, the 
closing date of applications given in the Gazette Notification.
05. Examination Fee.– fee for the examination is                          
Rs. 1,200.00. Receipt obtained to the name of the candidate, 
by payment of the above fee to any Post/Sub-Post Office or 
district/divisional secretariat of the island to be credited to 
government Revenue under the Revenue Head 20-03-02- 
13 of the commissioner general of Examinations before the 

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2586
closing date of applications, should be affixed securely by its 
one border on the relevant place of the application. Money 
orders or stamps are not accepted for the examination fee. 
Examination fee will not be refunded for any reason or 
transferred to another examination. it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
06. Method of Application :
 (a) special attention should be drawn to prepare the 
application in conformity with the specimen form 
attached to this notification, in A4 size papers 
using both sides, having heading numbers 1.0 to 
3.4 on the first page, and the rest in next pages. 
applications prepared by computer / type setting 
can be used for this purpose. the title of the 
examination should be written in English too in 
sinhala and tamil applications. candidates should 
fill the application in their own clear handwriting 
and, prior to sending the application, it is strictly 
noted to check whether the application conforms 
to the specimen form, is filled accurately with 
all the required informati on, and the receipt of 
the payment of the prescribed examination fee 
is affixed and its particulars are given in the 
application since the applications which do not 
conform with the specimen form, and those filled 
with incomplete information are rejected without 
any notice. further, it is advisable to retain a 
photocopy of the application and the relevant 
receipt of the payment of the examination fee 
with the candidate.
 (b) candidates should prepare the applications in the 
medium they intend to sit the Examination.
 (c) the completed application form should be sent 
by Registered Post on or before 30.08.2019, 
to reach the commissioner general of Excise, 
Excise department of sri Lanka, No.353, Kotte 
Road, Rajagiriya. the top left- hand corner 
of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed should be marked as “open competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to the Post of 
inspector of Excise in Excise department of sri 
Lanka - 2018 (2019)”. any application received 
after the closing date will not be accepted.
 
 (d) the signature of the candidate should be attested 
by a Principal of a government school, Justice of 
the Peace, a commissioner of oaths, attorney - at 
- Law, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer 
of the Navy, Air Force or Army, an Officer holding 
a gazetted post in sri Lanka Police or a permanent 
Public Officer holding a staff grade post.
 (e) incomplete applications will be rejected. any 
complaint on lost or delayed application in the 
post will not be accepted.
 (f) Receipt of application will not be acknowledged. 
Examination fee will not be refunded for any 
reason or transferred to another examination. 
further, Money orders or stamps are not accepted 
for the examination fee.
07.  Admission to the examination :
 (a) on the presumption that applications have 
been forwarded by persons who have fulfilled 
the qualifications referred in the Gazette 
Notification, admission cards will be issued by 
the commissioner general of Examinations 
to all candidates who are within the age limit 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification and 
have paid the prescribed examination fee and 
submitted the accurately completed applications 
on or before the closing date. immediately after 
the issuance of admission cards to the candidates, 
a newspaper advertisement will be published by 
the department of Examinations of sri Lanka. if 
a candidate does not receive his / her admission 
card even after two or three days of such 
advertisement, should inform the organization 
and foreign Examination Branch of department 
of Examinations of sri Lanka, regarding the non- 
receipt of the admission cards, as mentioned in the 
notification. In making such an inquiry, name of the 
examination applied, full name of the 
candidate, National identity card No. should 
accurately be mentioned. in case of a candidate 
residing outside colombo, it would be more 
appropriate to contact the department forwarding 
a letter of request including the above details and a 
fax number to receive the admission card to the fax 
No. 011-2784232. it would be useful to keep the 
photocopies of the application, receipt obtained by 
payment of the examination fee and the 
receipt of the registered post readily available 
with the candidate as a proof of such 
information requested by the department of 
Examinations at such inquiry.

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2587
  admission cards will be issued to the 
eligible candidates who have sent complete 
applications by the commissioner general 
of Examinations. candidates who fails to 
produce his/her admission card will not be 
allowed to sit the examination.
 (b) candidate must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every 
candidate should get his/her signature attested in 
advance and hand over the admission card to the 
supervisor on the first day he/she present himself/
herself for the examination. the rules which 
should be followed by all candidates have been 
given in the beginning of this Gazette Notification. 
candidates will be subject to the rules and 
regulations enacted by the commissioner general 
of Examinations with respect to the conduct of 
examinations. in case of violating these rules and 
regulations, he/ she will be liable to a punishment 
to be imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations.
Note - the issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
08.  Identity of Candidates.– any of the following 
documents will be accepted to prove the identity of the 
candidates at the examination hall to the supervisor, at 
examinations conducted by the department of Examinations 
of sri Lanka.
 1. National identity card,
 2. Valid Passport,
 3. Valid sri Lankan driving License.
09.  Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.– if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is 
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination. if any of the particulars furnished by a 
candidate is found to be false to the best of his/her knowledge 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/
she will be liable to immediate dismissal from the service.
all candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
with respect to conducting the examination and the release of 
results. if the candidates breach such rules and regulations, 
he or she be subject to the punishment imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations.
10.  any matter not provided for in these regulations will 
be dealt with at the discretion of the commissioner general 
of Excise.
11. (a) the examination will be conducted in sinhala and 
tamil language media.
 (b)  candidates should sit this examination in the 
same medium in which they passed the qualifying 
Degree or the official language.
 (c) in case the candidate has passed the subjects of 
the qualifying degree in two or more languages, 
he should sit the examination in the medium of 
which he passed the majority of the subjects of 
the degree or the official language.
 (d) candidate who has passed the main subject in one 
language and the additional subject in another 
language of the special degree he possesses, 
should sit the examination in the medium he 
passed the main subjects or the official language.
Note :-
 (i) candidates should answer all the papers of the 
examination in one and the same language.
 (ii) candidates will not be allowed to change language 
medium given in his/her application.
 (iii) Results of the Examination - Results of the 
examination will be communicated to the 
candidates by the commissioner general of 
Examination , by post or by the official web site 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
12. in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
sinhala text will prevail.
 H. g. 
suManasinghe,
 commissioner general of Excise,
 Excise department of sri Lanka.

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2588
Specimen Application form
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR REcRuitMENt to Post of
iNsPEctoR of EXcisE iN EXcisE dEPaRtMENt of sRi LaNKa - 2018 (2019)
(for office use only)
Town Town Number
(i)
(ii)
1.0 1.1 Name in full (in Block Letters) :–––––––––––––.
  eg: HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa
 1.2 Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––––.
  (in Block Letters) (Eg. guNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/ tamil)  
 1.4 National identity card No. :
2.0 2.1  Permanent address  :–––––––––––––.
  (in Block Letters)  
 2.2 Permanent address  :–––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/ tamil)  
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent: (in Block Letters)  :–––––––––––––. 
 
3.0 3.1  date of Birth :year :   Month :   date :
 3.2 age as at the closing date: years :   Months :   days :
 3.3 telephone Number (Mobile) :
 3.4 telephone Number (fixed) :
4.0  4.1 state whether you are a citizen of sri Lanka   : ––––––––––.
   (mention whether by descent or registration) 
 4.2 Nationality :––––––––––. 
 4.3 Marital status :––––––––––. 
 4.4 Nearest Excise station :––––––––––. 
 4.5 Educational Qualifications :
  i.
Name & Year of the Degree University Subjects Class Obtained
   ii. Passes of the g.c.E (o.L.) Examination :
Passes for Mathematics / english Index No. & Year
Medium in which you sit this examination
 sinhala - 2
 t amil  - 3  
 (Write the relevant Number inside the box)

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2589
 i.  if employed at present, particulars of the job : 
––––––––––.
 II. Particulars of Sports Certificates & Extra-
curricular activities :–––––––––.
 iii. Particulars of any other special trainings / 
voluntary army service, if applicable :––––––––.
 iV . 1 Height: .........cm (............feet  ...........inches)
  chest size (without inhalation) ............cm ........ 
inches 
 V . Have you ever been convicted of any offence in 
the court of Law? if yes, give details :––––––––.
 Vi. Name of the institute to which examination fee 
was paid :––––––––––.
  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt securely.
5.0 i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in the 
application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect before selection, I am subject to be disqualified 
or dismissal from service without any compensation if 
it is revealed after selection. furthermore, i agree to be 
bound by rules and regulations of the commissioner 
general of Examination regarding the conduct of the 
examination.
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
6.0  Attestation of Applicant’ s Signature :
i certify that Mr./Mrs. / Miss ........................ who is 
submitting this application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence under 
the above paragraph 5, on this .................... day of ................ 
2019. i also certify that he/she has paid the due examination 
fee and has attached the paid receipt.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the attester.
date  :––––––––––.
attester’s name  :––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
(Official Stamp should be placed)
7.0 (applicable only for those who are already in Public 
service.) :
Certification of the Head of the Department
i certify that the particulars given in the application by 
Mr./Mrs./Miss ................... who is employed as ..................... 
in this institute were checked and found to be accurate. in 
the event of his/her selection for the above post he/she can /
cannot be released. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Head of the department 
 (Official Stamp should be placed.)
date :––––––––––.
scheduLe no. 01
District District Number
colombo 01
gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Batticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
08–455

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2590
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-government servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
schedule of separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the government Printer, department of government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2019
2591
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 AuGuST 02.08.2019 friday — 19.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  09.08.2019 friday –– 26.07.2019 friday 12 noon
  16.08.2019 friday –– 02.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  23.08.2019 friday –– 09.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  30.08.2019 friday –– 16.08.2019 friday 12 noon
 SEPTEmbER 06.09.2019 friday — 23.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  12.09.2019 thursday –– 30.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  20.09.2019 friday –– 06.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  27.09.2019 friday –– 12.09.2019 thursday 12 noon
 OCTObER 04.10.2019 friday — 20.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  11.10.2019 friday –– 27.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  18.10.2019 friday –– 04.10.2019 friday 12 noon
  25.10.2019 friday –– 11.10.2019 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer. 
department of government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.