

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
CENTRAL CEYLON MUSLIM LADIES’ UNION
(INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 57 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 16th November, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union
(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007
Preamble.
2—PL 002404—3,300 (08/2007)
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Central
Ceylon Muslim
Ladies’ Union.
[Certified on 16th November, 2007]
L.D.—O. Inc 19/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  CENTRAL  CEYLON
M USLIM  LADIES ’ UNION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union” has heretofore
been established in Kandy for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it has been established and has
applied to be incorporated and it will be for the public
advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Central Ceylon Muslim
Ladies’ Union (Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of Commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
said Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union (hereinafter
referred to as “the Union”) or shall  hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby  constituted, shall
be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the
Corporation”) with  perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union”
and by that name may sue and be sued with full power
and authority  to have and use a common seal and to  alter
the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects of the Corporation are hereby
declared to be—
(a) to construct, equip and maintain a building as the
headquaters ;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union
(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
(b) to conduct Quranic Classes for young Muslim
children ;
(c) to commence V ocational Training Projects for the
school leavers of the Muslim faith ;
(d) to create awareness on Social Service towards
elderly and orphaned poor Muslims ;
(e) to identify vital community needs to provide
marriage counseling services to the community
and also facilitate the conduct of marriages for
the needy Muslims ;
(f) to establish and maintain a library and a
recreational room in the headquarters, mainly for
the elderly Muslim ladies ;
(g) to establish and maintain an orphanage for
Muslim girls ;
(h) to establish branches of the Union in various parts
of the Central Province ;
(i) to conduct health camps and awareness
programmes for the achievment of the objects of
the Act.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary of desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to open, operate and close
bank accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without
security, to invest in the funds of the Corporation, to
construct any buildings on any land vested in or acquired
or held by the Corporation and  engage, employ and dismiss
officers and servants required for the carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
 5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and rules of the Corporation
made under section 6, be administered by a Committee
consisting of the office-bearers and such other person as
are  elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union
(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007
(2) The first Committee shall consist of the members of
the Union holding office at the time of coming into operation
of this Act, and whose names are specified in the Schedule to
this Act.
6. (1)  It shall be lawful for the Corporation at an
Annual general meeting or at any meeting specially called
for the purpose and by a majority of not less than two-thirds
of the number of members present and voting at such meeting
to make rules in respect of all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) the appointment and removal of the members and
office bearers of the Corporation ;
(b) the procedure  to be followed by the Corporation
and the Committee generally in the transaction
of business and in particular in the conduct of
meetings ;
(c) the opening of Bank Accounts and the operation of
such accounts ;
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the agents,
employees and servants of the Corporation ;
(e) matters incidental to the carrying out of the aforesaid
objects.
(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended or
rescinded in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and all
monies received by way of bequests, gifts, testamentary
dispositions, grants, donations contributions or fees shall be
deposited in the name of the Corporation in one or more
banks as may be decided by the Committee.
(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act, shall be paid out of the Fund.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union
(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007
8.  (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
Qualified Auditor. In this subsection “Qualified Auditor”
has the same meaning in the Article 154 (8) of the
Constitution.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Union existing at the
time of the coming into operation of this Act, shall be paid by
the Corporation hereby constituted, all debts due to and
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Union, shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be capable in law to take and
hold any property, movable and  immovable, which may
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules of the Corporation, with full power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose
of the same.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
President or one of the  Vice-Presidents and the Secretary or
Assistant Secretary, who shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
12.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the republic, or of any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Accounts and
Audit.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Debts due by
and payable to
the union.
How seal of the
Corporation is to
be affixed.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies’ Union
(Incorporation) Act, No. 57 of 2007
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO   05  befor 15th
                           December each year in respect of the year following.