

<!-- page 1 -->

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
 NOTIFICATIONS OF PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
WESTERN  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
wxl 2039$35 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2017'10'06
No. 2039/35 – FRIDA Y, OCT OBER 06, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Information Technology Resources Development Charter of Western Province
NEW Information Technology Resources Development Charter of Western Province No. 01 of 2017, which has been prepared
by the Minister of Education, Cultural and Arts Affairs, Sports and Youths Affairs and Information T echnology of the
Western Province rescinding the Information Technology Resources Development Charter of Western Prov ince No.06 of
2000, is given below . This new charter shall come in to effect from 12.09.2017.
K. W. RANJITH SOMAWANSA,
Minister of Education, Cultural and Arts Affairs,
Sports and Youths Affairs and
Information Technology of the
Western Province.
Battaramulla.
04th October, 2017.
        This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
    1A - PG 3720 - 37 (10/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'062  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
Information T echnology Resources Development Authority Statute,
No. 01 of  2017 of the Western Province
 A statute to provide for systematic, efficient and effective utilization of Information and communication
affairs for the performance of duties and functions relevant to the subjects assigned to Western Province
Provincial Council, for development and analysis of systems and methods, to regularize and expand computer
technology and related matters, to provide the benefits of Information technology development to the
people, to allocate provisions for matters incidental thereto and to repeal the Information Technolo gy
Resources Development Statute No. 06 of 2000 of Western Province.
BE it passed by the Provincial Council of the Western Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
as follows :-
1. This Statute  may by cited as the Information Technology Resources Development Authority
Statute No. 01 of 2017 of Western Province and shall come into operation on the date of assent of th e
Governor.
PART I
Establishment of the Western Province
Information T echnology Resources Development Authority
and its Composition
2. (1) There shall be established an authority which shall be called information Technology Resources
Development Authority of the Western Province, hereinafter referred to as the ''Authority''.
(2) The Authority shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may
sue and sued in such name.
3. Administration and Management of Authority's affairs shall be assigned to the Management
Board (hereinafter referred to as ''Board'') as per provisions allocated below and the said
Management Board shall consist of four (04) official members, three (03) members appointed by
the minister from among the members stated below.
(a) Officers appointed on ex-officio basis :
(i) Deputy Chief Secretary of Western Province (Personnel and Training)
(ii) Deputy Chief Secretary of Western Province (Financial)
(iii) Deputy Chief Secretary of Western Province (Engineering)
(iv) Provincial Director of Education of Western Provincial
(b) Three persons appointed by the minister from among the following stated persons:
(i) Two persons excelled in proper knowledge and expertise pertaining to the subjects of
Information and Communication Technology, Telecommunication, Law, Administration
and Management, will be appointed as members.
(ii) Another persons shall be appointed by inquiring the Chief Minister, that member shall
be appointed as the Chairman of the Authority.
4. Where a person ;
(1) Is a member of Parliament, member of Provincial Council or Councilor of a Local Government
Authority or,
Short title and
Date of
Enforcement.
Establishment of
Information
Technology
Resources
Development
Authority
Disqualifications
to become a
member
Authority's
Management
Board

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'06 3 A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
The official
Tenure of Board's
Chairman
Removal from
Membership
Payment of
Emoluments to
the Members of
Management
Board.
(2) Is not a Sri Lankan citizen or,
(3) Has been declared or decided as a mentally instable person according to a law enforced in
Sri Lanka or any other country or,
(4) is/ has been subjected to a penalty in the form of imprisonment, ordered by a Court of Law
in Sri Lanka or any other country,
(5) Is an owner of a private company maintaining a business regarding Information Technology
or being an agent of  him
such a person shall not qualify to be appointed as a member of the Board or to function continuously
as a member.
5. (1) Every appointed member of the authority shall hold his office for not more than three years,
decided by the minister at the time of the member's appointment and calculated from such date
of appointment. Futher, unless removed from office under Sub-section 7(1), he shall qualify to
be re-appointed.
(2) The member/members appointed in place of an already appointed member's removal from office
or upon his resignation, shall hold office only for the remaining term.
6. (1) The official tenure of Chairman shall be his term of membership at the Authority subjected to
provisions of Sub-section 7(1).
(2) In case the Chairman becomes unable to accomplish duties of his office temporarily due to an
illness or other disability or staying away from Sri Lanka, the minister may appoint a Management
Board member to act in his place.
(3) The Chairman may resign by way of a letter forwarded to the minister.
(4) When the minister is dissatisfied about the modus operandi of Chairman, he may terminate
Chairman's appointment after inquiring the Chief Minister.
(5) The Chairman shall preside at all the meetings of the Board. In the absence of Chairman at a
meeting of the Board, a Management Board member present at the said meeting should select
one among them to preside that particular meeting.
7. (1) Whoever a member may be removed from his office by the minister by way of a Gazette
notification without declaring any explanation and such removal shall not be challenged in any
Court of Law.
(2) Where the minister has made an order as per above Sub-section (1) with regard to a member of
the Authority, affairs shall proceed considering as if the said member's office got vacant by the
date such order was published in the Gazette paper .
(3) A member appointed to the Authority may resign from  his office of member or Chairman at any
time, by way of a resignation letter forwarded to the minister.
(4) Emoluments, allowances and other expenses from the Authority's fund may be paid to all the
members of the Management Board of the Authority or to any particular member, according to
provisions issued from time to time and circulars on the consent of the Secretary in charge of the
subject of Finance and instructions and provisions issued by the Provincial Treasury.
Official Tenure
of Members
Appointed

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'064  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
Rules of
Procedure of the
Board
Secretary of the
Management
Board
Objectives of the
Authority
8. (1) Quorum of a meeting of the Board shall consist of 04 members.
(2) No action or process should be as invalid  owing to a vacancy in the Board's membership or
faulty appointment of members to the Board.
(3) A Management Board meeting shall be held once a month at least.
(a) A written notice on every board meeting shall be served to each member 03 days prior to the
meeting day and its shall state taskes scheduled at the said meeting.
(b) If a request be made by way of a letter signed by minimum of two members to call a Board
meeting, the Chairman shall call a special Board meeting.
(c) Without the approval of the Board member appointed by the Minister, if a member does not
participate for three meetings continuously, his membership will be abolished.
(4) Affairs of the Authority shall be administered by the Management Board.
(5) The Management Board may assign its powers and functions required for efficient control of
the Authority, to Chairman, Director or employee of the Authority.
(6) A suitable officer from among the employees of the Authority may be appointed as the Secretary
of the Management Board.
(7) In case of the Board of Members' voting on any matter takes equal division, the presiding
person shall possess a ''Casting V ote''.
P ART II
Objectives and Powers of the Authority
9. Objectives of the Authority are as follows.
(1) Providing Government Services through internet and other new technologies to public by
establishing information and communication technology services and implementing
e-government policy of the province.
(2) Planning, development, establishment and maintenance of information and communication
technology projects relevant to the province.
(3) Installing software systems to improve service efficiency of provincial council and to automate
processes.
(4) Creating websites and networks for ministries, departments and institutions of Provincial Council.
(5) Establishment and management of information communication technology infrastructure for all
the institutions of provincial Council.
(6) Providing computer education and training to officers of the Provincial Council.
(7) Taking necessary measures to popularize knowledge on information and communication
technology subject and computer science of the Province.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'06 5 A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
(8) Providing technological counseling services and other assistances to institutions engaged in
affairs related information and communication technology resources development within the
province.
(9) Providing services to private sector or other institutions expecting Authority's service with
regard to information communication technology by charging a fee.
10. Powers of the Authority are as follows.
(1) Purchasing , take or give on lease or hire, mortgage, sell or otherwise dispose of any moveable
or immoveable property for the purpose of discharging Authority's objectives and functions.
(2) To enter into contracts and agreements required for the implementation of Authority's powers
and activate Authorities objectives.
(3) Creating a separately  functioning business entity capable of implementing information
communication technological projects under the Authority and recruiting experts on information
and communication technology on permanent and assignment basis and making payments to
them as decided by the managements board by utilizing the revenue earned through the said
projects.
(4) To levy and charge fee for the services provided by the Authority to provincial Council or to
external parties under the recommendation of the management.
(5) Couducting research relating to development affairs in information and communication
technology field, assisting such researches, coordinating and encouraging them.
(6) Maintaining training affairs and educational affairs on entrepreneur skills relevant to information
Technology  field, implementation of programms to extend knowledge and information by way
of training programms, seminars, conferences, workshops and study tours.
(7) Maintaining sub - officers and centers required for the Authority on prior approval of the
minister.
(8) Formulation of administrative and financial rules enabling accomplishment of objectives stated
in above Section 9.
(9) Drafting service orders for Authority's employees, their performance appraisal and taking remedial
measures required.
(10) Purchasing machines, plants and equipments required to achieve the objectives of the Authority.
(11) In accordance to National and Provincial Council policies, obtaining funds, technological
expertise knowledge or other aid.
(12) Investing certain amount of Authority's money opportunely, on the approval of minister in
charge of Finance.
11. (1) The Authority's seal shall be kept in the custody of the Director elected under the 13 (1)
sentence of this statute.
(2) The Authority's seal shall not be affixed to any instrument or document, except in the presence
of two members in the management of the Authority who shall palce their signatures in the said
instrument or document, in token of their presence.
Authority's
Powers
Seal of the
Authority

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'066  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
(3) The Authority shall maintain from the starting date a register of instruments and documents to
which the seal has been affixed.
12. The Minister in charge of the subject may give written orders to the Authority in respect of
accomplishing objectives and implementation of powers of the Authority and the Authority
shall put such orders into effect.
P ART III
Authority's Chief  Executive Officer and Other Staff
13. (1) The Management Board shall appoint according to the approved recruitment procedure, a
person full time in service as the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority who shall be cited
hereinafter in this statute as the ''Director''
(2) Supervision of Authority's affairs, organizing and implementation of Authority's powers, affairs
and functions and administration of Authority's employees will be assigned to the Director,
subjected to general provisions and control of the Management Board.
(3) The Authority may appoint other officers and employees it considers as essential to efficiently
maintain its duties subjected to the approved recruitment procedure.
(4) An officer engaged in public service may be appointed temporarily  to the Authority's staff on
the request of the Authority and on the consent of such officer and its appointing authority, for
a time period specified by the Authority.
P ART IV
Authority's Funds and Accounts
14. There shall be a fund in the name of the Authority.
(1) Money appropriated by the Provincial Council to the Authority as  grants,
(2) All the money regulated under this statute and collected,
(3) All the money accepted by the Authority as charges and fees,
(4) All the money received as donations, prizes or grants or in any other manner from sources in or
outside Sri Lanka,
(5) All the money received by selling, renting out, leasing out or disposing property, assets, goods
and equipment of the Authority,
(6) Money received from Provincial Council Fund or Local Government Authorities or from any
other institution to accomplish specific projects or functions,
(7) Money received as profit, installment or in any other manner by investing or depositing
Authority's money.
(8) Money received to the Authority by any other legal source;
shall be credited to the said Fund.
Minister's powers
in respect of the
Authority
Authority's staff
Chief Executive
Officer of the
Authority
Fund of the
Authority

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'06 7 A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
15. Payments may be made from the Fund for the following matters.
(1) Emoluments payable to members of the Authority's Management Board,
(2) Salaries payable to officers and employee of the Authority,
(3) Payments and emoluments payable to service providers of the Authority,
(4) The expenses borne by the Authority in connection to implementation and accomplishment of
its powers, functions and duties.
16. Authority's Financial Year should be a calender year.
17. Accounts and books shall be maintained with regard to income and expenditure as well as of
assets and liabilities of the Authority.
18. Financial Statement for the year ending at 31st December in every year shall be  prepared for
every financial year. Such statements shall be  forwarded to the Auditor General prior to 31st
March of the following year.
19. All the assets and properties of the Authority shall be subjected to a Board of Survey as at 31st
December of every year.
20. Before the commencement of every year, having prepared an estimate for the relevant year,
approval of the Management Board shall be obtained prior to the commencement of the year.
21. When the audited accounts and Auditor General's reports are received each year, those reports,
along with a report including the functions performed by the Authority  within the relevant
financial year shall be forwarded to the minister and he shall take measures to present such
reports to the Provincial Council immediately.
PART   V
General  Matters
22. (1) The minister in charge of the subject may formulate regulations on a matter or on all matters
relating to implementation, enforcement of powers and levying of charges under this statute
without any detriment to powers assigned by this statute.
(2) Every regulation formulated by the minister in charge of the subject under this section shall be
published in the Gazette paper and it shall be enforced from the date of such publishing or from
any other date stated in such regulation.
(3) Every regulation formulated by the minister in charge of the subject, within 06 months of its
publication in the Gazette, shall be submitted to the Provincial Council for approval and any
regulation which is not so approved by Provincial Council shall be deemed to be repealed from
the date of its disapproval, but without any prejudice to anything previously done there under.
PART   VI
Interim  Provisions
23. (1) From the date of assent to this statute by Governor of Western Province, Information Technology
Resources Development Statute No. 06 of 2000 of Western Province shall hereby be repealed.
Payments from
the Fund
Financial Year
Financial
Statements

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2017'10'068  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  06.10.2017
(2) Even so,
(a) all the moveable and immoveable property and
(b) all the assets and liabilities,
in possession of Western Provincial Information Technology Resources Development
Institute established under the Information Technology Resources Development Statute
No. 06 of 2000 shall be considered as moveable and immoveable property, assets and
liabilities of the Authority under this statute.
(3) Functions perfored under the Information Technology Resources Development Statute No. 06
of  2000 shall be considered as functions accomplished under this statute.
(4) Futher, officers or employees of western Provincial Information Technology Resources
Development Institute established under the Information Technology Resources Development
Statute No. 06 of  2000 shall be considered as officers or employees of this Authority.
24. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires :
"Minister" means the minister in charge of the Information Technology subject of Western  Province
Provincial Council.
25. In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this statute, Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10 - 670
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Interpretations
Sinhala Text to
prevail in case of
Inconsistency