

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of May  07,  2010
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 10. 05. 2010)
PINA  ORGANISATION (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Pina Organization
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Tissa Attanayake,
M.P. for Kandy District
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5.
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Pina Organisation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
2 —PL 004825—80 (05/2010)
20
25
Short title.
30
Preamble.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  PINA  ORGANISATION
WHEREAS an Organisation called and known as the “Pina
Organisation” has been established in Sri Lanka, for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting  all objects
and matters connected with the said Organisation according
to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Organisation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Pina Organisation
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many person as now are members of the “Pina
Organisation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Organisation”)
or shall hereafter be admitted members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the “Pina  Organisation” and by
that name may sue and be sued, in all courts with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to donate modern Hospital equipment and
ambulances imported from Germany and elsewhere
to the Government Hospitals, especially to Army
Hospitals in the island;
Incorporation
of Pina
Organisation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Pina Organisation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to encourage and assist students faced with
economic or financial difficulties to pursue higher
education and provide necessary infrastructural
facilities;
(c) to assist students who have lost one or more parent/
s in their education and provide appropriate lodging
for them;
(d) to provide relief to the poor and destitute who
require heart surgery, transplantation of kidney  and
cancer surgery for such surgeries and to provide
assistance for treatments;
(e) to establish and maintain orphanages and homes
for the aged and to establish social welfare centers;
(f) to provide welfare facilities for the deaf, dumb and
the blind and disabled persons and to establish
welfare homes;
(g) to provide wheelchairs, crutches and spectacles for
the poor and destitute;
(h) to assist low income families in the construction of
new houses or complete existing ones;
(i) to assist in the development of rural areas and
primary sector activities by means of providing
agricultural machinery such as Tractors, Hand-
Tractors, land vehicles distributed through the
respective provincial councils to the farmers;
(j) to provide ambulances to Hospitals in less developed
regions;
(k) to provide government school children with
transport facility in appropriate number by means
of distributing busses;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Pina Organisation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(l) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects;
(m ) to promote the Corporation and its constitution
through exhibitions, expert discussions, workshops,
debates and tours planned and carried out by the
Corporation;
(n) to collaborate and work with other similar
organizations with similar constitution as the
Corporation;
(o) to reduce and make non-existent suicide by means
of community projects and education on the matter ;
and
(p) to do all such acts and things as are in the opinion of
the Corporation connected to any of the above and
beneficial to the growth of the Foundation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, as necessary or desirable
for the promotion or  furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation or any one of them, including the power to open,
operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise  money
with or without security, to receive or collect grants and
donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of Corporation.
5. (1) The Management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this act and
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, vest in a
Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Council”)
consisting of such number of governors elected from among
the members in accordance with the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Pina Organisation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The members of the Governing Council of the fund
whose names are set out in the schedule to this Act, and
holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement this Act, shall be the members of the first
Council of the Corporation.
(3) The council shall have the power to appoint new
members.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at its meeting by the votes of not less than two-thirds of
the members present and voting, to make rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other written
law, for the management of the affairs of the said Corporation
and accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when make
may at like meeting and in like manner be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The rules of the said Corporation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made under this
section in so far as they are not inconsistent with this  Act or
any other written law.
7. All debts and liabilities of the said Corporation, on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscription and contributions payable to
foundation on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
testamentary disposition, donations, contribution and fees
deposited in the names of the Corporation in one or more
banks as may be decided by the Committee of Management.
(2) There shall be paid out from the fund, all sums of
moneys to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper account to be
kept of all moneys received and expended by the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
foundation.
Accounts
and Audit.
Rules of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 6 -->

5Pina Organisation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and the balance sheet
certified by the Auditor or Auditors who shall be an associate
member or members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of members of the Board of Management of the
Corporation as may be provided in the rules who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
11. The Corporation shall be able  and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable, or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase
subscription, gift, grant, testamentary disposition or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange,  or otherwise dispose
of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among members of the Corporation, but shall be
given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or anybody corporate or any other
persons except such as are mentioned in this  Act and those
claiming by, from, or under them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
35
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Pina Organisation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.