

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1152
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1150
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"069 – 2018 wfm%a,a ui 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'04'27
No. 2,069  –  fRiday ,  aPRil 27, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th May, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th May, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1147-B 81275- 5,403 (04/2018)
Note.–    (i) l and (Restrictions on alienation) (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of april 12, 2018.
 (ii) Shop and Office Employees (Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement 
to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 12, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1148
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General
 :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5
 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5
 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5
 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1149
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) 
 When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1150
Posts – vacant
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION
Appointment of members to the boards of Review (Panel) required to establish 
Agrarian boards of Review
thE judicial Service commission shall appoint a panel of not more than nine persons from among the persons who have 
a wide knowledge in the field of law and agraian services for the purpose of establishing Boards of Review for a period 
of three years according to Section 42a (1) of the agrarian development act, No. 46 of 2000 as amended by the agrarian 
development act, No. 46 of 2011.
accordingly, the judicial Service commission has decided to call for applications from citizens of Sri lanka of 
excellent  moral character, physically fit and not more than 70 years of age having the following necessary qualifications to 
get the required members appointed to the 
agrarian Boards of Review.
01. Retired judges
02. a ttorneys - at-law with over 10 years experience
03. Persons having - 10 years of experience in executive level in the field of Agriculture who are presently 
engaged in relating to agrarian Service law or had engaged in the same.
the applications should be sent to reach the Judicial Service commission on or before 27.05.2018.
the allowances paid to an appointed member of the panel are as follows.
 Monthly allowance Rs. 34,335
 travelling allowance - Rs. 10,000 (Monthly)
 h . Sanjeewa Somaratne,
 Secretary,
 Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12,
10th april 2018.
04-863
––––––––––––––––––
amendment
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT 
Amendment of closing date of applications and the address to which application 
should be sent recruitment of registrar of marriage, birth and Death of the Registrar General's 
Department  
aNuRadhaPuRa  diStRict
it is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, 
for the division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2065 of 29.03.2018 is 
extended as 28.05.2018 and also note that the address to which application should be sent as district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district Secretariat, anuradhapura.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1151
02. Please note that the closing date of applications and the address to which application should be sent as district 
Secretary/ additional Registrar General, district Secretariat, anuradhapura only changed all other details in the said gazette 
notification remain unchanged.
  neil de alwiS,
  Registrar General.
Schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post and Division for which Application are 
called
Address to which Application 
should be sent
anuradhapura horowpothana Post of Birth and death Registrar of 
Mahapothana - North division and post 
of Marriages Registrar of hurulupalatha 
division (Kandyan/ General)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura.
04-966
––––––––––––––––––
amendment
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Amendment of closing date of applications and marriage Division for recruitment of
Registrar of Additional marriage registrar of the Registrar General's Department
KuRuNEGala diStRict
It is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Additional Marriage Registrar, for the 
division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2065 of 29.03.2018 is extended 
as 28.05.2018 and also note that the Marriages division should be change as post of additional Marriages Registrar of 
yagampattu Koralaya division of Katugampala hatpattuwa division (Genreal/ Kandyan).
02. Please note that the closing date of applications and the Marriages division only changed all other details in the 
said gazette notification remain unchanged.
  neil de alwiS,
  Registrar General.
Schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post and Division for which 
Application are called
Address to which Application 
should be sent
Kurunegala udubaddawa Post of additional Marriages Registrar of 
yagampattu Koralaya division of Katugampala 
hatpattuwa division (General/ Kandyan)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala.
04-967

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1152
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of NATIONAL COExISTENCE, 
DIALOGuE AND OffICIAL LANGuAGES
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of National Integration Co-ordinator, 
Grade III – 2018
aPPlicatioNS are invited from eligible Sri lankan 
citizens for the open competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the post of the National integration co-
ordinator, Grade III, to fill the existing vacancies in the 
Ministry of National Coexistence, Dialogue and Official 
languages. 
02. Eligible candidates will be selected for appointment 
to the post of National integration co-ordinator, Grade 
iii, in the order of merit based on the results of a written 
examination and a speech and listening test to be conducted 
by the Ministry of National coexistence, dialogue and 
Official Languages.   
03. the number of persons to be selected for appointment 
and the effective date of the appointment will be determined 
by the Secretary to the Ministry. 
the Secretary to the 
Ministry reserves the right not to fill any particular number 
of vacancies or any of the vacancies.
04. Monthly salary scale (
as per Pub. ad. circular 
No.03/2016) – Rs. 27,140 -10x300-11x350-10x495- 10x660 
- Rs. 45,540.
05. 
the post is permanent and you should be subject to 
the  policy decision to be taken by the government in the 
future  regarding the pension system.
06. eligibility.– the following are the eligibilities for 
recruitment to the post of National integration co-ordinator, 
Grade iii. it is compulsory that the applicant possess all the 
eligibilities relevant to the post on or before the closing date 
of application.
6.1 Educational Qualifications :(a) 
 (I)  Passing the General Certificate of Education 
(
ordinary level) Examination in six (06) subjects 
in one sitting with credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English and Mathematics and with credit 
passes for any other two (02) subjects.
And 
 (ii)  Passing at least one subject at the General 
Certificate 
of Education (Advanced Level) 
Examination (excluding the common General 
test).
  And 
(b) (i)  a simple pass (S pass) or a higher pass for 
the other official language (Sinhala/Tamil) 
as the Second 
language at the General 
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
Examination 
  Or 
 (II)  Possessing a certificate from a government 
recognized institution for the completion 
of a 6 month - course  on the other official 
language (Sinhala/
tamil)   
Note. Applicants are required to have fulfilled 
all eligibilities under (a) above and one 
eligibility under (b) above. 
 
 6.2  Vocational Qualifications.– not applicable 
 6.3  experience.– not applicable 
 6.4  Physical Fitness.– applicants should be 
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka and discharge his/her official duties.
 6.5  Others  :
 (i)  Should be a citizen of Sri lanka  ;
 (ii)  applicant should posses an excellent moral 
character.
 6.6  Age Limit.– applicants should not be less than 18 
years and not more than 35 years of age  on the 
closing date of the applications.
07. 
examination Procedure :
 7.1  Written examination will consist of 02 question 
papers. the examination will be conducted 
in Sinhala/ tamil/English mediums and any 
request for change of medium applied for will 
not be allowed subsequently.
 7.2  the examination will be conducted island 
wide in the towns given in Schedule i. Request 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1153
for change of town applied for will not be allowed subsequently. if the number of candidates applied for a 
particular town is not sufficient the candidates will be transferred to an examination centre in a nearby town. 
(this question paper will be prepared in order to assess the eligibility and ability of the applicant to discharge 
his/her duties).
 7.3  The decision of the secretary to the Ministry of National Coexistence, Dialogue and Official Languages in 
regard to conducting of the examination and releasing of results will be final.
08. Scheme of recruitment :
 (a)  Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and an oral test. all applicants who score 
marks more than 50 for the second language proficiency test and more than 40 marks for the aptitude test in the 
written examination will be called for the speech and listening test. 
a number of applicants double the number 
of existing vacancies, on priority basis out of the applicants who secure more than 50 marks at the speech and 
listening test will be called for the general interview for checking their basic eligibilities. Recruitment will be 
made for existing vacancies based on the priority order of the total marks thus secured.     
 (b)  Details of the examination :
 
Subject Subject No. Duration Total marks Pass marks 
1. Second language proficiency 01 01 hour 100 50
2. aptitude test 02 01 hour 100 40
3. Speech and listening 03 01 hour 100 50
Name of the paper Curriculum 
Second language proficiency this paper consists of a set of questions to assess applicant’s ability to express ideas, 
comprehension, spelling and usage of simple sentences in the second language  
aptitude test this paper consists of a set of questions to assess applicant’s statistical ability, 
argumentative talent and the general knowledge 
Speech and listening this test is to assess the applicant’s second language speech and listening skills  
09. Punishment for false information.– Particulars should refurnished very cautiously and perfectly when the application 
form is perfected. the candidature of any candidate will be cancelled before the examination or while the examination is 
being conducted or after the examination or at any time if it is revealed that he/she is not eligible according to the rules and 
regulations relating to this examination. if it is found at anytime that the particulars furnished by the applicant are false he/
she is liable to be dismissed from government service.
10. examination fee. – Examination fee is Rs. 500. the examination fee could be paid at any district Secretariat 
or divisional Secretariat located in any part of the country so as to be credited to the income head 2003-99-00 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained should be affixed, pasting by an edge of it, on the specified 
space in the application. 
it will be useful if a photocopy of the receipt is kept with the applicant. the receipt for the payment 
of the fee is compulsory to have been issued in the name of the applicant.
Note:
10.1 applicants who had applied for the post concerned by paying due examination fee as per the Gazette dated 
31.03.2017 should apply again only if required qualifications have been changed. Such applicants are not 
required to repay examination fees.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1154
11. application form should be prepared using a4 
(24x.29 cm.) size papers.
 (a)  application form should be prepared in the 
manner that the paragraphs from No. 01 to 2.4 
appear in the first page ; and
 (b)  the paragraphs from No.03 onwards appear in 
the rest of the pages.
 (c)  in preparation of the application form, the name 
of examination at the top of the form (heading) 
should be stated in English too in addition to 
the name furnished in Sinhala or 
tamil if the 
application is made in Sinhala or tamil. 
the relevant particulars should be clearly written in the 
own hand writing of the applicant. the applicant is responsible 
for any losses for not perfecting the application correctly. it 
will be useful for the applicant to keep a photocopy of the 
application with him. 
the applicant should ensure that the 
application form perfected by him is in accordance with the 
specimen form appearing in the examination notification. 
application which is not in accordance with the specimen 
form is liable to be rejected.
 
11.1 
the words " open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the post of National integration coordinator, 
Grade iii - 2017" should be written on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
11.2 the signature of the applicant in the application 
form should be certified by a principal of government 
school or a 
commissioner of oaths or a Justice of Peace or 
an authorized officer of the security forces or a notary public 
or a police officer holding Gazette post or an officer holding 
permanent post in government service and in receipt of an 
annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or more.
11.3 Perfected application form should be sent to the 
following address by registered post on or before 25.05.2018:
Secretary
Ministry of National Coexistence, Dialogue and Official 
languages,
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road,
Rajagiriya. 
12.  
 12.1  one of the following documents should 
be produced to the officer in charge of the 
examination centre to establish the identity of 
the candidate:
  *  Valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons.
  *  Valid Passport.
 12.2  admission card with the signature of the 
candidate duly certified should be submitted to 
the officer in charge of the examination centre 
on the day of the examination.
13. 
the Secretary to the Ministry will decide on any 
matter  not referred to herein.  all applicants are bound 
to adhere to the general examination rules and regulations 
published in this Gazette.
 M.y.S. deShapriya,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of National coexistence, 
 Dialogue and Official Languages.
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road, 
Rajagiriya,
09th 
april, 2018.
SchEdulE  i
town Names and town Numbers :
 Town Name  Town No.
colombo  01
Kandy  02 
Matara 03
Batticoloa  04
Kurunegala 05
anuradhapura 06
Badulla 07
Rathnapura 08
Jaffna   09

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1155
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
the open competitive examination for recruitment to 
the poSt of national integration co-ordinator, grade 
iii – 2018, of the miniStry of national coexiStence, 
dialogue and official languageS
 
thE name of the examination given at the top of the specimen 
form should be included at the top of the application in 
English as well in addition to the name in Sinhala or tamil 
if the application is made in Sinhala or tamil.
 
   (For official use)
Medium selected for the examination :
Sinhala  – 2
tamil  – 3
English  – 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
* State the name and the number of the town selected for 
sitting for the examination as stipulated in the gazette 
notification:
Name and No. of the town 
Town Town No.
(see 7.2 of the Gazette notification)
1.0  1.1  Name with initials (initials last) :–––––––––.
            (in English capital letters) i. e. PERERa, a. B. c.
 1.2  full name :–––––––––.
        (in English capital letters)
 1.3  full name :–––––––––.
        (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4  National identity card Number :
 1.5  Gender :
                  female  – 1
                  Male  – 2
                  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.0  2.1  Permanent address :–––––––––.
            (Write in English capital letters)
 2.2  Permanent address :–––––––––.
       (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3  address to which the admission card is to be sent 
(in English capital letters) :–––––––––.
 2.4  telephone Number (if available) :–––––––––.
3.0  3.1  district in which the applicant is permanently 
residing :–––––––––.
 3.2  divisional Secretary's division :–––––––––.
 3.3  Period of residence :–––––––––.
 3.4  Grama Officer's Division :–––––––––.
4.0 date of birth :
      year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, date :––––––––.
      age on   25.05.2018 :
   y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications:
 5.1  Particulars relating to G. c. E. (o/l) :
 (i) year of examination and month :–––––––––.
  (ii)  Examination number :–––––––––.
  (iii)  Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
 5.2  Particulars relating to G. c. E. (a/l) :
    (i) y ear of examination and month :–––––––––.
  (ii)  Examination number :–––––––––.
  (iii)  Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1.
2.
3.
4.
6.0 
 have you ever been found guilty in a court of law at 
any time for any charges ?
     (tick P in the relevant cage)
     y es                                No
 (if yes, state particulars) :–––––––––.
7.0 Particulars of receipt obtained for payment of 
examination fee :
     (i)  Office at which the examination fee was paid 
:––––––––.
      (ii)  Receipt number and date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'04'27
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2018
1156
  (iii)  amount paid Rs. :–––––––––.
Firmly affix here the receipt obtained for 
examination fee. (applicant to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt.
8.0 Certification by applicant:
 (a)  i declare that all particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. i agree to bear any loss for not 
completing any part of the application form and/
or for completing the form incorrectly. 
further, 
i declare that all parts of this form have been 
completed by me.
 (b)  I am aware that I will get disqualified before the 
appointment is made or dismissed from service 
after the appointment is made if the declaration 
made by me is proved to be false.
 
 (c)  i further declare that, i will abide by the rules 
and regulations enforced by the Secretary of the 
Ministry of National 
coexistence dialogue and 
Official Languages relating to the conducting of 
examination and abide by the decisions relating to 
the releasing of results.
 (d)  i shall not later on change any particulars furnished 
here. 
  –––––––––––––,
                         Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––.
04–1007
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.