

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 4, 2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 29th January, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SRI LANKA FEDERATION OF THE
VISUALLY  HANDICAPPED
(INCORPORATION) ACT,  No.  4  OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually
Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007
1
[Certified on 29th January,  2007]
L. D. — O. (INC) 24/2004
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SRI LANKA  FEDERA TION  OF  THE
V ISUALLY  HANDICAPPED
WHEREAS a Federation called and known as the “Sri Lanka
Federation of the Visually Handicapped” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected with
the said Federation according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Federation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Federation of
the Visually Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as  are now members of the Sri
Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped (hereinafter
referred to as the “Federation”)  and shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped”,  and by
that name may sue and be sued in all Courts with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same in such manner as may be decided by the Executive
Committee of the Corporation.
Incorporation
of the Sri
Lanka
Federation of
the Visually
Handicapped.
Short title.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually
Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to unite all visually handicapped people living in
Sri Lanka ;
(b) to provide welfare services to the visually
handicapped and to seek solutions to common and
individual problems confronted by the visually
handicapped community;
(c) to inform the State and other organisations with
regard to common and individual issues confronted
by the visually handicapped community ;
(d) to create awareness among the visually handicapped
community on the various services provided for
them by the State and other organisation and to
assist them to derive benefits from such programmes ;
(e) to create awareness among the general public with
regard to the services and assistance required by the
visually handicapped community ;
(f) to make appropriate efforts to eliminate
misconceptions and false attitudes prevailing in the
society regarding blindness and blind people ;
(g) to act as a mediator to find solutions to legal issues
confronted by the visually handicapped
community ;
(h) to liaise with other organisations having objects
similar  to those the Corporation ;
(i) to raise funds in order to provide necessary welfare
services to the visually handicapped community ;
(j) to act in every possible way to eradicate causes of
blindness ;
General Objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually
Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007
3
(k) to establish and maintain “homes for the aged”
specially designed and equipped for the visually
handicapped community ;
(l) to establish and maintain rehabilitation centres and
welfare centres for the visually handicapped
community ; and
(m ) to take all other steps as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion of all or any of the foregoing
objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act, and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by an Executive
Committee consisting of the office bearers and such number
of Committee Members as may be provided for in the rules
and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shall
consist of the Members of the Executive Committee of the
Federation, holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting
Powers of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually
Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007
4
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) the admission, classification and withdrawal of
membership and expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers, the Executive
Committee and the conduct of the duties of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(c) for the procedure to be followed in the transaction
of business at meetings of the Corporation and the
Executive Committee ;
(d) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts ; and
(e) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule may be made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Federation existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation,
and all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions
payable to the Federation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue, of any purchase, grant,
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually
Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007
5
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of, the same.
9. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules
of the Corporation who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
The Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually
Handicapped (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2007
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.