

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2065$38 - 2018 wfm%a,a ui 05 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'04'05
No. 2065/38 - THURSDAY,  APRIL  05, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A   PG   3977 —507  (04/2018)
L. D. B. 6/2017
CIVIL  A VIATION   ACT,   No.  14  OF  2010
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Civil Aviation under Section 117(2)(i) read with Sections 11(1)(b), 17(2) and
31(d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010.
NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILV A,
Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation.
Colombo,
02nd April, 2018.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as Civil Aviation Safety Managment Regulations No.   of 2018.
STATE   SAFETY   PROGRAMME
2. (1) The Authority shall, for the purpose of safe operation of aircrafts, establish and maintain a State Safety
Programme (hereinafter referred to as the “SSP”) in accordance with Standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization
(hereinafter  referred to as the “ICAO”)
(2) The Authority shall specify the requirements in accordance with and circumstances in which a licensed
Service Provider with a Safety Management System (hereinafter referred to as the ‘SMS’) is permitted to carry out their
functions and duties under the SSP.
(3) The Authority shall specify operating regulations relating to SSP.
(4) The Director General of Civil Aviation (hereinafter referred to as the Director General) shall have the
power to implement and oversee-
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
(Published by Authority)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
(a) the State Safety Policy, Objectives and Resources ;
(b) the State Safety Risk Management ;
(c) the State Safety Assurance ; and
(d) the State Safety Promotion.
and issue directives to a licensed Service Provider in respect of the above, as set out in the Schedule I hereto for
the purpose of implementing the SSP.
SAFETY   MANAGEMENT   SYSTEM   OF  A   SERVICE  PROVIDER
3. The Director General, for the purpose of giving effect to the SSP and ensuring the compliance of a Service
Provider therewith, shall -
(a) require a Service Provider to establish and maintain  a Safety Management System ; and
(b) monitor and inspect operations of the SMS periodically.
4. SMS shall -
(a) correspond with the size of such Service Provider and the complexity of its aviation products or services ;
(b) cater for the type of service or operations to be provided or carried out ;
(c) include an implementation plan ; and
(d) be in conformity with the requirements set out by the ICAO or by the requirements set out in the Annex 19
to the Convention.
5. The Director General may provide guidelines and manuals for implementing standards for the effective
implementation of the SSP.
DATA   COLLECTION   AND  PROCESSING  SYSTEM
6. (1) The Authority shall establish an maintain a safety Data Collection and Processing Systems (SDCPS) of the
SSP to capture, store and collect safety data and safety information with a view to analysing the same.
(2) The Director General shall specify the requirements and procedure for the implementation of the SDCPS
as set out in Schedule II hereto.
INTERPRETATION
7. For the purposes of these Regulations -
“Authority” means the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka established by the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri
Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002 ;
“Service Provider” means a Service Provider appointed under Section 6 of the Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of
2010 and includes any licensed entity engaged in the implementation of a SMS ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
3A
“Standards” means Standards adopted by the Council of the International Civil Aviaton Organization under Article
37 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and to which Sri Lanka has not filed a difference
under Article 38 of the Convention and the recommended practices adopted by the Council of the
International Civil Aviation Orgainzation under Article 37 of the Convention which is duly implemented
and enforced in Sri Lanka.
8. The Civil Aviation Safety Management Regulations, No. 01 of 2014 published in Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1882/49 of 3rd October, 2014 are hereby rescinded, without prejudice to anything done thereunder
S
CHEDULE I
STATE  SAFETY RISK  MANAGEMENT
LICENSING ,  CERTIFICATION,   AUTHORIZATION  AND   APPROV AL   OBLIGATIONS
A1. The Director General shall satisfy himself that the licensing, certification, authorization and approval
obligations in respect of the entities are met in accordance with the applicable provisions in the Annex - 19
relating to :-
a. training organizations approved in accordance with Annex I to the Convention ;
b. Operators of aeroplanes or helicopters authorized to conduct international commercial air transport, in
accordance with Annex 6, Part I or Part III, Section II, to the Convention respectively ;
Note : When maintenance activities are not conducted by an approved maintenance organization in
accordance with Annex 6, Part I, but under an equivalent system as in Annex 6, Part I, or Part III, section
II, they are included in the scope of the operator’s SMS.
c. Approved maintenance organizations providing services to operators of aeroplanes or helicopters engaged
in international commercial air transport, in accordance Annex 6, Part I or Part III, section II, respectively ;
d. Organizations responsible for the type design or manufacture of aircraft, engines or propellers in
accordance with Annex 8 ;
e. Air Traffic Services (ATS) providers in accordance with Annex II ; and
f. Operators of certified aerodromes in accordance with Annex 14, V olume I.
A2. The Director General shall ensure that safety performance indicators and targets established by service providers
and operators are acceptable to the Director General.
A3. When Sri Lanka is the State of Registry, the Director General shall establish criteria for international general
aviation operators of large or turbojet aeroplanes in accordance with Annex 6, Part II, section 3, to implement
a SMS.
A4. The criteria established in respect of aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall address the SMS framework and
elements contained in the Implementing Standards to be published by the Director General.
Note :- Guidance establishing the criteria to implement a SMS for international general aviation operators is
contained in the Safety Management Manual.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
Accident and incident investigation
There shall be established a process to investigate accidents and incidents in accordance with Annex 13 to the
Convention in support of the safety management in Sri Lanka.
Hazard identification and safety risk assessment
B1. The Director General shall establish and maintain a process to identify hazards from collected safety data, as
advocated by ICAO.
B2. The Director General shall develop and maintain a process that ensure the assessment of safety risks associated
with identified hazards.
Management of Safety Risks
The Director General shall establish mechanism for the resolution of safety issues in accordance with relevant
provisions in the Annex - 19
The Director General shall develop and maintain a process to manage safety risks.
Note 1 : Actions taken to manage safety risks may include : acceptance, mitigation, avoidance or transfer.
Note 2 : Safety risks and safety issues often have underlying factors which need to be carefully assessed.
STATE  SAFETY  ASSURANCE
Surveillance obligations
C1 : The Director General shall satisfy himself that the surveillance obligations are met in accordance with relevant
provisions in the Annex - 19 as to the performance of the entities referred to in paragraph A 1.
Note : The surveillance over the entities referred to in Paragraph A1 takes into consideration the safety
performance as well as the size and complexity if its aviation products or services.
C2: The Director General shall establish procedures to prioritize inspections, audits and surveys in those areas
where greater  safety concern or need is required.
Note : Organizational risk profiles, outcomes of hazard identification and risk assessment, and surveillance
outcomes may provide information for the prioritization of inspections, audits and surveys.
C3: The Director General shall periodically review the safety performace of an entity referred to in paragraph A1.
State Safety Performance
D1. The Director General shall establish an Acceptable Level of Safety Performance to be achieved through  the
SSP.
Note :  An Acceptable Level of Safety Performance for Sri Lanka can be achieved by the implementation and
maintenance of the SSP as well as safety performance indicators and targets showing that safety is effectively
managed and built on the foundation of implementation of existing safety-related SARPs.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
5A
D2. The Director General shall develop and maintain a process to evaluate the effectiveness of actions taken to
manage safety risks and resolve safety issues.
Note : Safety assessment results may be used to support the prioritization of actions to manage safety risks.
D3. The Director General shall evaluate the effectiveness of the individual SMS to maintain or continously imporve
the individual SMS overall level of safety performance.
STA TE  SAFETY  PROMOTION
Internal communication and dissemination of safety information.
The Director General shall promote safety awareness and the sharing and exchange of safety information to support,
within the State aviation orgnizations, the development of a positive safety culture that fosters an effective SSP.
External communication and dissemination of safety information.
The Director General shall promote safety awareness and the sharing and exchange of safety information with the
aviation community to foster the maintenance and improvement of safety and to support the development of a positive
safety culture.
Note : Promoting safety awareness could include indentifying accessible safety training for the aviation community.
For the purposes of this Regulation -
“Annex - 1” means the current edition of the Annex - 1 on Personnel Licencing, to the Convention.
“Annex - 6 ” means the current edition of the Annex - 6 on Operation of Aircraft, to the Convention.
“Annex - 8” means the current edition of the Annex - 8 on Airworthiness of Aircraft, to the Convention.
“Annex - 14” means the current edition of the Annex - 14 on Aerodromes, to the Convention.
“Annex - 19” means the current edition of the Annex - 19 on Safety Management, to the Convention.
S
CHEDUEL II
Safety Data and Safety Information Collection, Anylysis, Protection, Sharing and Exchange
A. The Director General shall establish safety data collection and processing systems (hereinafter referred to as
the “SDCPS”) to capture, store, aggregate and enable the analysis of safety data and safety information.
Note 1  : SDCPS refers to processing and reporting systems, safety databases, shcemes for exchange of
information, and recorded information including but not limited to :
a) data and information pertaining to accident and incident investigations ;
b) data and information related to safety investigations by State authorities or aviation service providers ;
c) mandatory safety reporting systems as indicated in B ;
d) voluntary safety reporting systems as indicated in C ; and

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
e) self-disclosure reporting systems, including automatic data capture systems, as described in Annex 6,
Part 1, Chapter 3, as well as manual data capture systems ;
Provided however, exchange or dissemination of such data or information are not prohibited under
Annex 13.
Note 2 : The term “safety database” may refer to a single or multiple database.
Note 3  : SDCPS may include inputs from State, industry and public sources, and may be based on
reactive and proactive methods of safety data and safety information collection.
Note 4 : Sector - specific safety reporting provisions are contained in other Annexes, PANS and SUPPs.
There is a recognized benefit to the effective implementation of an SSP in having an integrated approach
for the collection and analysis of the data and safety information from all sources.
B. The Director General shall establish a mandatory safety reporting system that includes the reporting of incidents.
C. The Director General shall establish a voluntary safety reporting system to collect safety data and safety
information not captured by mandatory safety reporting systems.
D. The Director General including the Sri Lanka Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau shall have access to the
SDCPS to support his safety responsibilities, in accordance with the principles in Annex - 19.
E. The safety database should use standardized taxonomy to facilitate safety information sharing and exchange.
Note : Director General is encouraged to use an ADREP - compatible system.
Safety data and safety information analysis
The Director General shall establish and maintain a process to analyse the safety data and safety information from
the SDCPS and associated safety databases.
Note 1 : The purpose of the safety data and safety information analysis performed by the Director General is to
identity systemic and cross- cutting hazards that might not otherwise be identified by the safety data analysis processes of
individual service providers and operators.
Note 2 : The process may include predictive methods of safety data ayalysis
Safety data and safety information protection.
A1. The Authority shall accord protection to safety data captured by, and safety information derived from, voluntary
safety reporting systems and related sources in accordance with Annex - 19.
Note : Sources include individuals and organizaton.
A2. The Authority shall extend the protection referred to above to safety data  captured by, and safety information
derived from, mandatory safety reporting system and related sources.
Note : A reporting environment where employees and operational personnel may trust that their actions or
omissions that are commensurate with thier training and experience will not be punished is fundamental to
safety reporting.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.04.2018
7A
A3. Safety data or safety information collected, stored or analyzed in accordance with A and B paragraphs for
purposes other than maintaining or improving safety shall not be made available or used unless the competent
authority determines that a principle of exception applies.
A4. Notwithstanding paragraph C, the Director General shall not be prevented from taking, corrective or remedial
action that is necessary to maintain or improve aviation safety.
A5. The Director General shall take necessary measures, including the promotion of a positive safety culture, to
encourage safety reporting through the systems referred to in paragraph B and C.
A6. In support of the determination referred to in paragraph C, Authority should institute and make use of appropriate
advance arrangements between the State entities entrusted with aviation safety and those entrusted with the
administration of justice as stated in Annex - 19.
Safety information sharing and exchange.
B1. If the Director General, in the analysis of the information contained in its SDCPS, identifies safety matters
considered to be of interest to other States, the Director General shall forward such safety information to
them as soon as possible only where the dissemination or such data and information are not prohibited under
Annex 13. Prior to sharing such information, Director General and the respective State shall agree on the
level of protection and conditions on which safety information will be shared. The level  of protection and
conditions shall be in line with Annex - 19.
B2. The Director General shall promote the establishment of safety information sharing or exchange networks
among users of the aviation system, and facilitate the sharing and exchange of safety and information, unless
national law provides otherwise.
For the purposes of this Schedule -
“ADREP” means Accident or Incident Data Reporting ;
“Annex - 6”  means the current edition of the Annex - 6 on Operation of Aircraft, to the Convention ;
“Annex - 13” means the current edition of the Annex - 13 on Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation,
to the Convention ;
“Annex - 19” means the current edition of the Annex - 19  on Safety Management, to the Convention ;
“PANS” means the Procedures for Air Navigation Services ; and
“SUPP” means the Regional Supplementary Procedures.
04-710
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.