

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'26
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.08.2022
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2294$62 – 2022 wf.daia;= ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2022'08'26
No. 2294/62 – FRIDAY, AUGUST  26, 2022
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 037344–11 (2022/)
 My No.: CI/1813.
THE INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES ACT CHAPTER   131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between De La Rue Lanka C urrency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, Export 
Processing Zone, Biyagama, Malwana of the one part and the Inte r Company Employees Union, No.10, Council Lane, 
Dehiwala of the other part on 30th March 2022 is hereby publish ed in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
09th August, 2022.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'26
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.08.2022
 2A
Collective Agreement No.  09 of 2022
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 
This Collective Agreement made on this 30th March 2022, pursuan t to the Industrial Disputes Act, between De La Rue 
Lanka Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, a Company incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka, Having its principal 
place of business at Export Processing Zone, Biyagama, Malwana of One part (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Employer”) 
and the Inter Company Employees Union, a Trade Union registered under the laws of Sri Lanka, having its registered oﬃ  ce 
at No.10, Council Lane, Dehiwala, of the Other Part, (hereinaﬂ  ter referred to as ‘‘the Union”) witnesseth and it is hereby 
agreed between the parties as follows:
 1.  Parties to be covered and bound 
  This Agreement shall cover and bind De La Rue Lanka Currency & Security Print (Pvt) Limited, the Inter Company 
Employees Union and employees of the Employer in manual grades on permanent monthly contracts of employment 
(hereinafter referred to as “Employees”) 
 2.  Date of Operation and Duration
  This Agreement shall be eﬀ  ective for a period of 24 months from the 1st day of July 2021  and shall be in force till 
30th of June 2023 and shall thereafter continue to be in force unless it is repudiated by either party giving one month’s 
notice in writing to the other, provided however, that neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other before 
the 30 th day of June 2023.
  All parties agreed to put forward their proposals for renewal  of the Collective Agreement, in writing, at least 6 
months prior to expiry of the Agreement.
 3.  Revision of basic salaries:
  (i) Salaries drawn by employees covered and bound by this Agr eement shall be revised in the following manner:
 
    1
st year commencing from 1st July 2021 - 5%
    2 nd year commencing from 1st July 2022 - 10%
  (ii)  De La Rue believes in recognizing and rewarding the bes t performers, hence the Company at its discretion may 
grant additional rewards to best performers depending on the availability of budgetary allowances. 
4.   Bonus
  Without prejudice to the claim of the Employer that bonus pay ments are ex-gratia, the Employer shall continue to 
pay two months Salary as annual bonus.
  The hitherto practice with regard to the time of payment and deductions based on attendance, penalties made 
after a domestic inquiry, unauthorized absence shall continue. New employees shall enjoy the beneﬁ t of the bonus 
proportionately. The current practice of 25% forfeiture of annu al bonus for disciplinary written warnings will 
continue. 
5.   Production bonus 
  i) The Employer shall continue to make payment of a productio n bonus equivalent to one month’s salary of an 
employee subject to the achievement of the conditions of SSQCDP which, will be published at the beginning of the 
ﬁ nancial year.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'26
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.08.2022
 3A
  ii) However, it is also agreed by the Employer to make paymen t on pro-rata basis of the production bonus in the event 
each of the said criteria is achieved based on the weights in percentages are mentioned against each criterion.
  iii) Parties agree that the Employer reserves its right to 10 % of forfeiture on production bonus payable on account of 
written warnings issued after a proper investigation.
  iv) In addition to the above, the deduction from the producti on bonus shall also be made on account of absence and 
shall be pro-rated on a weekly basis. This condition shall be applicable for any period of absence over and above the 
stipulated leave entitlement. E.g. Deduction of 1/52 of production bonus for every 5 days absence.
6.   Shift allowances:
  Subject to the present criteria of payment it is agreed by pa rties that the shift allowances will be as revised in the 
following manner with eﬀ ect from 01st July 2022:
  1st shift (6.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m.)  - Rs. 150.00
  2nd shift (2.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m.) - Rs. 200.00
  3rd shift (Night shift)  - Rs. 1000.00
 
7.   Medical beneﬁ  ts
 
  i) OPD - With eﬀ ect from 1st April 2022, the Employer shall reimburse expenses incurred by employees in respect of 
OPD treatment to a maximum of Rs.37,500/- per year and such amount shall be oﬀ ered to each conﬁ rmed employee 
as a family unit.
  ii) Hospitalization Insurance - The Employer shall pay the premium for Hospitalization Insur ance as a family unit, 
in respect of hospitalization up to a maximum of Rs. 130,000/- per employee per annum.
8.  Compassionate leave - leave for funerals
  The Company agrees to increase the leave for funerals from 2 to 3 days and in the event the funeral precedes a week-
end or ‘days oﬀ  the leave will be considered from the following working day, but it must be within 7 days of the 
death of the relevant family member. The family under consideration for the intents and purposes of the leave are as 
follows;
  
  •Parents.
  •Spouse
  •Children
  •Own siblings (brothers and sisters)
  •Own maternal or paternal grandparents
  •Mother-In-Law/Father-in-law
9.   Shift handover / take over time
  The shift handover / take over time to remain as ten (10) min utes in order to ensure smooth continuation of work 
between shifts. Eﬀ ective shift times will be as follows,
  1st shift  - 5.55 a.m. to 2.05 p.m.
  2nd shift  -1.55 p.m. to 10.05 p.m.
  3rd shift - 9.55 p.m. to 6.05 a.m.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'26
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.08.2022
 4A
10.   Trade Union Action
  
  The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree that they shall not, during the operation of this Agree 
ment, take or resort to any form of Trade Union action in respect of any matter covered by this Agreement.
  
Further, the Union agrees that in the event of any form of trade union action the uniformed security personnel will not 
put the site at risk by taking part in the trade union action. The uniformed security will at all times agree to follow the 
sites security procedures including instructions and guidance p rovided by the site’s Security Manager and the Plant 
Manager or in absence of the Plant Manager the Acting Plant Man ager with 100% compliance to ensure thet the site 
is not at risk under any circumstance. 
The uniformed security personnel agree to continue to report for duty and carry out their routine work responsibilities 
in full despite any form of collective action by the trade union . Additionally, the Security personnel agree to carry out 
and complete work/ tasks that they are engaged in at the time o f the industrial action both inside and outside the site 
until it is completed in line with normal or enhanced security procedures in full, e.g: inspecting loading operations, 
guarding or escorting duties will be carried out despite any trade union action, however, it is noted that  new tasks of 
escorting and loading will not be undertaken during collective action. Utmost priority will be given to ensure the site’s 
security is maintained during any form of collective action. 
11. Dispute Settlement Procedure
 (a) The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree th at any dispute/Problem/issue thet may arise  
between  the  parties, in respect  of  any matter not covered by this Agreement, to resolve such dispute/problem/
issue in the manner provided in clauses (b) to (e) below.
 (b) Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the di spute should be forwarded by the Union’s Branch 
Committee to the Employer, and at 14 days given for the Employer to resolve the dispute. This letter should be 
date stamped by the HR and handed back into the Union Representative.
 (c) If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be  referred  to the Parent Union and to The Employers, 
Federation of Ceylon (EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute. 
 (d) If  after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by  the intervention of the EFC and the Parent Union, the 
conciliatory proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act should be followed. 
 (e) If after conciliation has failed in the Labour Department,  the Union wishes to take Trade Union action, written 
notice should be given of not less than fourteen days (14) to t he Employer and the EFC regarding such Trade 
Union . For the  avoidance of doubt, this is addition to the 14  days above in (b). It is reaﬃ  rmed by parties to 
adhere to the dispute resolution procedure stated above in resolving any disputes. 
12. Co-operation between the parties
 (i) The Employer agrees to continue with the facility of remitt ing check oﬀ  directly to the Union.
 (ii) The Employer will continue to grant the facility of permi tting the President and the Secretary of the branch to 
attend monthly meetings of the Union, The Employer also agrees to release not more than two employees to 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'26
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.08.2022
 5A
attend to Training Programmes / Seminars conducted by the Union, not more tham twice in each calendar year 
provided , however, that  the Union requests in writing for this facility with suﬃ  cient notice to the Employer. 
 (iii) Employees agree to continue to extend their fullest co-o peration in respect of enhancing productivity at the 
work place. which include the following:
 (a)  Employees will extend their fullest co-operation in respe ct of any change in work arrangements and shift
   operations to facilitate production requirements. The Employ er agrees to discuss with the Union and the 
   employees, proposed changes in work arrangements in advance.
 (b) Changes in relation to work arrangements and shift operations as currently practiced at the work place. In this
   regard it is agreed by the Employer to discuss in advance wi th the Union and the employees, of any changes it
   proposes to implement in relation to work arrangements. 
  As such, the Union is agreeing that during periods where ther e is no work to run machines/ packing , the crew/s 
  will remain at home unless otherwise the Company has work in other departments in Production to deploy them
  A prior communication will be done to the Union and the emplo yees in this regard. 
                 
 (c) Flexibility to move within currently practiced shift patte rns to facilitate training and multi-skilling, manning of 
   new machinery and production requirements will be continued and carried out to ensure optimization of human
   capital. I.e., it is the prerogative of the management to mo ve shifts around to ensure that the product/site security 
   concerns are addressed.           
                
` (d) The Union has agreed that Uniformed Security Personnel va cancies which arise due to retirements/resignations 
   will not be backﬁ  lled by permanent cadres. Ten (10) vacancies will be backﬁ lled by 3 
rd party security who will
   be engaged to over the period. This is in order to comply wi th the ISO14298 standards observations and
   non-conformances. 
  The company accepts to facilitate the discussions to discuss any concerns which the union may have on third party
   security services. 
 (e) All vacancies arising on site will be recruited as per Gro up’s Recruitment Policy. I.e failing to source fof the 
   right candidate internally will result in the Company sourci ng the suitable candidate externally. In the interest of
   development of internal candidates the applicants should be given feedback as to what/where they 
   need to improve.
 (f) All activites connected to the management of quality, envi ronment, health and safety, implementation of 
   international standards, continuous improvement and training  activities.
 (g) All necessary measures  in relation to handing over of wor k between shifts. In view of this undertaking . the 
   Employer will continue to implement the present practice of granting a grace period of ﬁ ve minutes in the event
    the employee reports late. 
 (h) Taking all necessary measures by employees in the Maintena nce Division in respect of breakdowns in order to 
   minimize the impact on production including ﬂ  exibility to work during factory shut - downs (New Year, Wesak,
   Christmas and 4 other days, which will be agreed by both par ties in November for the following calendar year)
   if required for annual maintenance and other maintenance mat ters. 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2022'08'26
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.08.2022
 6A
In case of dispute arising as to the interpretation of this Collective Agreement, the English original shell 
prevail.
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set thei r hands at Colombo on this 30 th  day of 
March, Two Thousand and Twenty Two
EGO 08 - 0262
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.