

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"117- 2019 ud¾;= ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'03'29                                                             
No. 2,117 - FRIDAY ,  MARCH  29,  2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.                      
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th April,  2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th March , 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 76
75 - B 81508 -353 (2019/03)
N.B.—   Part  II, III and IV (A)  of the  Gazette No. 2116  of  22.03.2019 was  not  Published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'29
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019
76
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General's No. : 4/10/47502.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: 
m<d;a$b'fld'$39$l,a$§'n 03'
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notiﬁ ed that for the Commercial of Constructing 
a Hotel Complex Purpose, S. W. Abegunarathna has requested 
on lease a state land containing in extent about Hectares 1.6339 
marked as Lot No. "A" in trasing No. PU/KAL/2015/32A 
prepared by Government  Surveror and situated in the village 
of Eechchankaadu which belongs to the Grama Niladhari  
Division of No. Kandakulia coming within the area of authority 
of Kalpitiya Divisional Secretariat in the District of Puttalam.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Road   ;
On the East by : Road ;
On the  South by :  State Land  ;
On the West by :   State Land (Young coconut plantation).
03. The land requested can be given on lease for 
the necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other Government 
approved conditions and the following conditions : -
 
 ( a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty years. (30) (from 06.02.2019 
onwards, the date Hon. Minister approved the lease);
  The Annual  Ammount of the Lease. – 4% of the  
market value of the land as per valuation of the chief 
valuer for  the year 2019. This amount of the lease 
must be  quinquennially revised in such a manner 
that amount as a result of the revision will be not 
less than 50% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Treble of the annual amount of the lease.
  Penalty -  10% of the undeveloped commercial value 
of the land, for the land  approval of the lease by the 
Hon. Minister.
 ( c) The lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary/ Provincial 
Land Commissioner/ Deputy Land Commissioner.
 ( d)  The lessee must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the Commercial purpose of constructing 
a Hotel Complex.
 ( e) The lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the  Provincial 
Land Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary, and by other 
Institutions.
 ( f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 ( g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease.
 ( h) No sub-leasing transferring can be done until the expiry 
of a minimum period of 05 years from 06.02.2019, 
except to fulﬁ l the purpose of this lease.
 ( i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
 
   If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of  the date of publishing this 
notiﬁ cation to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
  Y . Y . N. P
ERERA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6,  Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
29th March, 2019.
03-1274                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                        

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'29
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.03.2019 77
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General’s                                   
No. : 4/10/59270.
Ref. No. of Provincial Land  Commissioner's                             
No.: NP/28/04/02/SLO/43/1480. 
NOTIFICATION   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notiﬁ ed that Amma's Milk (Pvt) Ltd has requested 
the State land, in extent of Ace. 01 out of extent marked in 
Top pp 64,part of the lot No. 3 and situated in the village 
of  Kunriddamadu of Puliyankulam North Grama Niladhari 
division which belongs to Vavuniya North Divisional 
Secretary's division in the District of Vauniya, on lease for 
the construction of Amma's Milk (Pvt) Ltd under State Land 
Ordinance. The boundaries of the land requested are given below.
On the North by : Canal  ;
On the East by : A 9 Road;
On the  South by :  Lot 4;
On the West by :  Lot 2.
03. The requested land can be granted lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other Government 
approved conditions and the following conditions : -
 
 ( a) Term of the Lease .– Thirty Year (30) Years, ( From 
07.03.2019);
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – In the instances where 
the assessed value of the land in the year 2019 is less 
ﬁ ve million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000) 2% of the  market 
value of the Land in the said year, as per the valuation 
of the chief valuer. In the instances where the assessed 
value of the land in the effective year of the lease in the 
more than ﬁ ve million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of 
the market value of the land in the said year, as a per 
valuation of the chief valuer. The amount of the lease 
must be revised in the every ﬁ ve years and the revision 
shall add 20% to the amount that just preceded.
  Premium  – Not levied
  
 ( b) The lessees must, within one year of from the date of 
commencement of the lease, develop  the  said land to 
the satisfaction  of the Divisional Secretary ;
 ( c) The  lessese  must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than the purpose of  commercial                    
purpose ;
 ( d) The  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions  imposed by the Divisional Secretary and 
other institutes ;
 ( e) The buildings constructed and construction must be 
maintained in a proper state of repair ;
 
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the  lease ;
 
 (g)   No sub -  leasing can be done until  the expiry  of a 
minimum period of 05 years, from 07.03.2019 ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within 06 weeks of  herein Gazette publication to the 
effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land 
shall  be leased out as requested. 
  S. A. E
RANTHIKA W. KULARATHNA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,  "Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
29th March, 2019.
03-1547