

<!-- page 1 -->

195
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024. 11'14
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 14.11.2024
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(P ublished by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR   PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of pub lication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 06 December 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22 November 
2024 electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
195 - 82627- 177 (11/2024)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases  ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 196
wxl 2"411 - 2024  fkdjeïn¾ ui 14 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024 .11'14
no. 2,411 - ThuRSDAy, NoVEMBER  14, 2024
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

196
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.11'14
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 14.11.2024
Miscellaneous Notices
oRDeR  foR  WInDInG  uP, SubjecT  To SuPeR vISIon
    
Wednesday, the 06th day of november 2024
In the high court of the Western Province 
holden in colombo (exercising civil/commercial jurisdiction)
  In the matter of "T. K. S. Finance Limited", of 
  No. 245, Dharmapala Mawatha, Colombo 07.
                              And
  In the matter of an application for Winding up by Court  
  under Part XII of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.
  T. K. S. Finance Limited,
  No. 245, Dharmapala Mawatha,
  Colombo 07.
                  .................Petitioner.
upon the petition, and c., this Court doth order that the voluntary winding up of the said T. K. S. Finance Company Limited, 
be continued, but subject to the supervision of this Court; and any the proceeding under the said voluntary winding up may 
be adopted as the Court shall think fit; and it is ordered that the Liquidator appointed in the voluntary winding up of the said 
company, or other the Liquidator for the time being, do on the 2
nd  day of December next, and thenceforth every three months 
file with the Secretary of the  court a report in writing as to the position of, and the progress made with the winding up of the 
said company; and with the realization of the assets thereof, and as to any other matters connected with the winding up as the 
court may from time to time direct. And it is ordered that no bulls of costs, charges, or expenses, or  special remuneration of 
any proctor employed by the Liquidator of the said company or any  remuneration, charges, or expenses of such Liquidator, 
or of any manager, accountant, auctioneer, broker or other person,  be paid out of the assets of the said company unless such 
costs, charges, expenses, remuneration, shall have been taxed or allowed by the Secretary of the court. And it is ordered that 
all such costs, charges, expenses, and remuneration, be taxed and ascertained accordingly, and it is ordered that the costs of 
the petitioner, And the creditors, contributories, and Liquidator of the said company, and all other persons interested are to 
be at liberty to apply generally as there may be occasion.
 Indula hewage,
 Attorney-at-Law for Petitioner.
11-186
Case No. : ChC/82/2019/Co
Nature : Winding up
Procedure : Summary
Value : Rs. 1,000,000

<!-- page 3 -->

197
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024.11'14
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 14.11.2024
PRINTED   AT   ThE   DEPARTMENT   oF   GoVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
noTIce of WInDInG  uP
In the high court (civil) of the Western Province (holden in colombo) 
exercising commercial, jurisdiction
   In the matter of B. R. J. W. Enterprises 
    (Private) Limited,
   No. 33/1, Dutugemunu Street,
   Dehiwala.
   and
Case No. : hc ( cIvIL )/49/2024/co
Nature  : Company (Winding up)
Value : 19,930,300 In the matter of an application for Winding up 
   by court under Part XII of the Companies Act 
   No. 07 of 2007 read with Winding up Rules 1939
   Sarath Jayasoma Liyanage,
   No. 19, 9th  Cross Lane,
   Borupana Road,
   Ratmalana.
       ...........Petitioner.
Notice is hereby given that the amended Petition dated 29.07.2024 for the winding up of the above-named Company by the 
high Court (Civil) of the Western Province (holden in Colombo) exercising Commercial Jurisdiction was presented to the 
said Court by Sarath jayasoma Liyanage of No. 19, 9
th  Cross Lane, Borupana Road, Ratmalana and that the said Petition is 
directed to be heard before the Court on the 19th  day of December 2024; and any creditor or contributory of the said company 
desirous to support or oppose the  making of an order on the said Petition may appear at the time of hearing in person or by 
his Attorney-at -Law for that purpose; and a copy of the Petition will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of the said 
company requiring the same by the undersingned on payment of the prescribed charge for the  same.
 Kumudu Rajapaksha,
 Consilium Attorneys,
 No. 1395/5, hokandara Road,
 Pannipitiya.
Note : Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve on or send by post to the                                  
above-named Kumudu Rajapaksha notice in writing of his intention so to do. The notice must state the name and 
address of the person, or if a firm, the name and address of the firm and must be signed by the person or firm, or his 
or their Attorney-at-Law (if any) and must be served, or if posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the 
above named no later than 6 o' clock in the afternoon of the 18
th  day of December 2024.
Kumudu  Rajapaksha,
Consilium Attorneys,
No. 1395/5, hokandara Road,
Pannipitiya.
11-179