

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2125
2125
wxl 1"884 - 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'10'10
No. 1,884 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2128
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2131
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st October, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th
October, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:III and III of the Gazette No. 1,883 of 03.10.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2126
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2127
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2128
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th Nov ember,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nuwaragam Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Palatha East Kandyan) of Nuwaragam Palatha General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Anuradhapura
Anuradhapura New Town Division
Anuradhapura Mihintale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Nuwaragam Palatha General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Anuradhapura
Mankadawala Division
Anuradhapura Palugaswewa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Hurulu Palatha Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Matambuwa Anuradhapura
Korale South Division
10–456

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2129
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th Nov ember,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Bandarawela Post of Additional Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Bandarawela Division (Kandyan/ General, District Secretariat,
General) Badulla.
10–453
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2130
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th Nov ember,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam K alpitiya Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Kalpitiya Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Puttalam
Puttalam Chilaw Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Chilaw Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Puttalam
Puttalam Mundel Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Puttalampattu Division and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Kandathoduwawa Puttalam
Sinnapadu Division
10–455
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2131
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th Nov ember,
2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
24th September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Mundalama Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages for Mundalama Divisional General, District Secretariat,
Secretary's Division (Tamil Medium) Puttalam.
Puttalam W anathawilluwa Post of Registrar of Marriages of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kalpitiya Division and Births, Deaths General, District Secretariat,
of Wanathawilluwa Divisional Puttalam.
Secretary's Division (Tamil Medium)
10–454
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF CIRCUIT BUNGALOW
KEEPER OF PRELIMINARY SEMI TECHNICAL SERVICES
CATEGORY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING – (2013)2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons who have fulfilled the
prescribed qualifications for the post of Circuit Bangalow Keeper of
Preliminary Semi Technical Services Category of Colleges of
Technology Ampara, Anuradhapura, Kandy and Technical Colleges
Monaragala, Weerawila, comes under the purview of the Department
of Technical Education and Training.
Post Number of Vacancies
1. Circuit Bungalow Keeper 05
01. Recruitment Procedure.– Recruitment will be made on the
results of trade test and structural interview. Trade test will be held
first and candidates who got highest marks based on the merit order,
among the candidates who poassed trade test, will be called for an
interview as twice the existing number of vacancies. Appointments
will be made on merit order according to the total marks obtained
from structural interview and trade test, for existing vacancies.
Trade Test :
Duration Maximum Pass Syllabus
(hours) Marks Marks
1. 02 100% 40% 1. House Keeping
2. Food processing
3. Offering Food
4. Cleanliness/Interest
Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional Professional Qualifications 50
Additional Experience 25
Skills at the interview 05
Total 100

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2132
02. Educational Qualifications .– Have passed G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in six (06) subjects, with at least 02 credit passes in not
more than two (02) sittings.
03. Professional Qualifications. – Should have obtained
proficiency not less than National V ocational Qualification (NVQ)
level - 2, under the field relevant to the post, from an institution,
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission,
as follows :
(i) A certificate of 06 months house keeping or cookery course
from hotel school ; or
(ii) A certificate of 06 month house keeping or cookery course,
conducted by the V ocational Training Authority ; or
(iii) Have followed and passed a course not less than 06 month
in House Keeping or cookery conducted by Government
or Government recognized Institution.
04. Service experience.– Have obtained 02 years experience in
relevant field in Government or recognized Institution.
05. Age Limit.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age as at the closing date of applications. Upper age limit is
not applicable for persons who are holding a permanent post in
Public Service.
06. Salary.– In terms of Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006(IV), Salary Scale Rs. 12,210 - 10x130 - 10x145 - 10x160 -
12x170 - Rs. 18,600 of Salary Code PL-2-2006(ta) is applicable to
this post.
07. All candidates, who apply for the above referred posts, should
be a Citizen of Sri Lanka with a moral character and have sufficient
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to
discharge the duties of the post. All qualifications need to recruit to
the above referred post should have been fulfilled in every manner,
by the closing date of applications.
08. Mode of forwarding applications :
(i) Applications, should be sent under registered cover to
reach the "Director, General, Department of Technical
Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo - 10" on or before 10.11.2014. Applications,
received after that date will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen application, is indicated at the end of this
notification, Applicants should prepare their application,
in their own handwriting, in A4 size paper with No. 01 to
07 appearing in 1st page No. 08 to 11 appearing in 2nd
page and the rest in next pages.
(iii) The envelope enclosing the application should clearly be
marked "Application for the post of Circuit Bungalow
Keeper" on the top left hand corner.
(iv) According to applications only applicants, who fulfilled
basic qualifications will be called for trade test.
(v) Fee for trade test is Rs. 400 and such fee should be paid at
any People's Bank branch in the Island to the Account
Number 176-100-139026228 (Mid City Branch) as
credited to the Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training the receipt obtained should be
firmly affixed in the application form. It will be useful to
keep a photocopy of the application and a receipt.
Examination fee will not be refunded under any
circumstances and money order and stamps will not be
accepted.
(vi) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal
of a Government School/A Justice of a Peace /
Commissioner of Oaths / Attorney-at-law/Notary
Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force or an
officer holding a permanent post in the Government with
monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 20,030.
(vii) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public
Service should submit applications through their Head of
the Department.
(viii) Applications, without conformity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applciations lost or delayed will not be accepted.
Applicants are advised to send their applications in time
to avoid the possibility of postal delay. Receipt of
application will not be acknowledged. Incomplete
applications and applications which not fulfilled
prescribed qualifications will be rejected.
(ix) Your candidature will be repealed, if any information
mentioned in the application, being detected as incorrect
or false, before the recruitment. If such information being
detected after the recruitment, action will be taken to
dismiss from the service, subject to the procedure relevant
thereto.
09. Implementation of official languages policy.– Proficiency in
other official language of relevant level, should be obtained, within
05 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and Circulars, incidental thereto.
10. Procedure to trade test :
(i) Admission Cards will be issued by the Director General of
Department of Technical Education and Training to the
candidates who sent applications formally and fulfilled
basic qualifications. Candidates, appearing for trade test
should submit their admission card, with their duly attested
signature. Permission will not be granted any candidate to
appear trade test, without submitting the admission card.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2133
(ii) Traveling expenses or any other allowances, incure by the
candidates for appearing for trade test will not be paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction
of the supervisor. Any one of the following documents
only, will be accepted for this purpose :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ; or
(b) A valid passport.
(iv) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations,
stipulated by the Director General of the Department of
Technical Education and Training, relating to conduct trade
test.
11. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and shold
contribute to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers and
Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Candidates should liable to serve in any College of
Technology/Technical College, comes under the
purview of this Department, as would be stipulated.
(iii) Selected candidates should subject to the provisions of
scheme of recrutiment relevant to the post, provisions
in Establishments Code, Financial Regulations and to
the rules and regulations issued by the Government or
Line Ministry or Director General of the Department
of Technical Education and Training.
(iv) General conditions and provisions, mentioned in the
Procedural Rules, published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 by the Public Service
Commission are applicable.
12. Director General of the Department of Technical Education
and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the
Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala text
shall prevail.
J. A. R
ANJITH,
Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10,
10th October, 2014.
A
PPLICA TION FORM
For office use
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF CIRCUIT BUNGALOW
KEEPER OF PRELIMINARY SEMI TECHNICAL SERVICES CATEGORY OF
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2013(2014)
01. Name of the candidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital
letters) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address (In block capital letters) :–––––––––––.
Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
Private Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(Any change in the Address or Telephone Number, should
be informed immediately).
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at closing date of applications :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
06. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/widow :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––,  Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2134
09. V ocational Qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Grade Name of the
Certificate Institute/
Course University
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institutions, Post Period of Whether,
worked Service Government/Semi
Government/Private
11. (i) If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or
registration (If registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Race (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
Sinhalese - 1
Sri Lankan Tamil - 2
Sri Lankan Muslim - 3
Indian Origin - 4
Others - 5
12. Whether you have been dismissed from government post, that
you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
13. If you are already in Public Service, are there any Departmental
disciplinary inquiries against you ? :––––––––––––.
14. Whether you have been convicted in a Court ? If so, state details :
––––––––––––.
15. People's Bank branch which trade test fee has been paid :––––.
Date of Payment :––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before the
selection I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
16. Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is
personally known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on ..........................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the certifying officer :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in Government
employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... who is working
in this Ministry/Department/Institution is working in the post of
....................... and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no
disciplinary action pending against him/her and no decision has been
taken to impose any such in future and prescribed trade test fee has
been paid and the receipt for the same is affixed. If she/he will be
selected for this post, he/she can/cannot be released from the service.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department or
Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Seal)
10–370
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT   OF   OFFICIAL   LANGUAGES
Open/Limited Competitive Examination for the
Recruitment to the Posts of Translator (Tamil/English)
and (Sinhala/Tamil) in the Department of Official
Languages – 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens
for the recruitment to the following posts in the Department of
Official Languages.
Translator (Tamil/English) - 03 posts
Translator (Sinhala/Tamil) - 06 posts
02. Monthly Salary Scale.– Rs. 17,680 - 10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450
- Rs. 31,645. (MN-6-2006(A)).
03. This post is permanent and pensionable.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2135
04. Recruitment Ratio :
Stream Percentage
Open 75%
Limited 25%
Merit Not Relevant
Note.– In case, the number of applicants is insufficient for the
recruitments to be made under the open stream, such
number of vacancies will be filled under the limited stream.
In the event that the number of qualified candidates is
insufficient under the limited stream, such number of
vacancies to be filled under the open stream.
05. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are required for
the Posts of Translator Grade II (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil)
- (Limited/Open).
5.1 Translator (Tamil/English) :
01. A degree with Tamil Language or English Language as a
subject from a University recognized by the University
Grants Commission ; and
(i) A credit pass for English Language/English Literature
at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for the applicants
who have followed Tamil Language as a subject for
the degree, or a credit pass for Tamil Language and
Literature at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for the
applicants who have followed English Language as a
subject for the degree ;
or
(ii) A minimum of Ordinary Pass for English Language
at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination for the applicants
who have followed Tamil Language as a subject for
the degree, or a minimum of Ordinary Pass for Tamil
Language at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination for the
applicants who have followed English Language as a
subject for the degree.
02. A degree with "Translation Methods" as a subject from
a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission ; and
(i) A credit pass for English Language/English
Literature at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination and a
credit pass for Tamil Language and Literature at
the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
or
(ii) A minimum of Ordinary Pass for English Language
at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and a minimum
of Ordinary Pass for Tamil Language at the
G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
Translator (Sinhala/Tamil) :
01. A degree with Tamil Language or Sinhala Language as a
subject from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission ; and
(i) A credit pass for Sinhala Language and Literature
at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination for the applicants
who have followed Tamil Language as a subject of
the degree, or a credit pass for Tamil Language and
Literature at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for
the applicants who have followed Sinhala
Language as a subject for the degree ;
or
(ii) A minimum of Ordinary Pass for Sinhala Language
at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination for the applicants
who have followed Tamil Language as a subject
for the degree, or a minimum of Ordinary Pass for
Tamil Language at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
for the applicants who have followed Sinhala
Language as a subject for the degree.
02.  A degree with "Translation Methods" as a subject,
from a university recognized by University Grants
Commission ; and
(i) A credit pass for Sinhala Language and Literature
at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination and a credit
pass for Tamil Language and Literature at the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
or
(ii) A minimum of Ordinary Pass for Sinhala Language
at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and a minimum
of ordinary pass for Tamil Language at G . C. E.
(A/L) examination.
03. The final degree (Pandit) from the Sri Lanka Oriental
Language Promotion Society ; and
(i) A credit pass for Tamil Language at the G . C. E.
(O/L) examination ;
or
(ii) An ordinary pass for Tamil Language at the
G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
5.2 Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be physically and
mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge
duties of the post.
5.3 Other :
1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Should possessan excellent character ;
3. The applicant should have fulfilled, by every means, all
the qualifications required as at the date mentioned in the
Notice/Gazette Notification for calling applications.
5.4 The officers who are currently in the Public Service should
hold permanent posts and have been confirmed in the respective
posts.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2136
06. Conditions of service :
(i) The Commissioner of Official Languages decides the
number of appointments and the effective date of
appointment. The Commissioner of Official Languages
has the Authority to fill a certain number of vacancies or
all the vacancies.
(ii) Should pass the Efficiency Bar Test within three (03)
years after the appointment to the post.
(iii) Language proficiency should be obtained in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 within five (05)
years after the appointment to the post.
(iv) The selected applicants will be recruited to Grade II of
the post in terms of the provisions set out in the procedural
Rules of the Public Service Commission, published in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,586/30 dated 20.02.2009 and
the provisions set out in the Establishment Code.
(v) All the recruitments will be subject to the approved
Scheme of Recruitment and the amendments made to the
same in future.
(vi) The officers in the Public Service should forward the
applications through their respective Heads of the
Department/Institution.
07. Age limit :
Open : Should not be less than 21 years and more than 35
years as at the closing date for applications.
Limited : Not Relevant.
08. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments are made based on the
results of a written test and a general interview will be conducted to
examine qualifications.
8.1 Subjects of the examination :
Question Paper Duration Total marks Pass marks
Translator 1. Transl ation - 03 hours 100 40%
(English/Tamil) T amil to English
2. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
English to Tamil
3. Tamil Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
4. English Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
Translator 5. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
(Sinhala/Tamil) Sinhala to Tamil
6. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
Tamil to Sinhala
7. Sinhala Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
8. Tamil Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
8.2 Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
Translator 1. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
(Tamil/English) T amil to English technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from
Tamil Language medium into English Languages medium.
2. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
English to Tamil technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from
English Language medium into Tamil Language medium.
3. Tamil language W riting an essay, writing a pre´cis, summarizing a given passage with
own words, constructing meaningful sentence using given words,
correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, defining idioms, spellings.
4. English language W riting an essay, constructing meaningful sentence using given
words, defining idioms, analyzing compound and complex clauses.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2137
Translator 1. Translation - Translate 03 passages from administrative, legal, scientific,
(Sinhala/Tamil) Sinhala to Tamil technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from
Sinhala Language medium into Tamil Language medium.
2. Translation - Translate 03 passages from administrative, legal, scientific,
Tamil to Sinhala technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
Tamil Language medium into Sinhala Language medium.
3. Sinhala language W riting an essay, writing a pre´cis, summarizing a given passage,
constructing meaningful sentences using given words, correcting
grammar mistakes in sentences, defining idioms, spellings.
4. Tamil language W riting an essay, writing a pre´cis, summarizing a given passage,
constructing meaningful sentences using given words, correcting
grammar mistakes in sentences, defining idioms, spellings.
Question Paper Syllabus
09. Punishment for poviding false information .– Candidates
should carefully provide the accurate information when filling the
application. If it is revealed that a candidate does not have the
necessary qualifications, the candidature can be cancelled at any
time, before, after or during the examination. If it is revealed after
appointment to the post that some information given is incorrect,
he/she will be dismissed from the public service. The fact that an
admission card has been issued to a candidate should not be regarded
as an acceptance that the candidate has satisfied  all the requirements
to appear for the examination. Candidates should abide by the rules
imposed by the Commissioner of Official Languages regarding the
examination. In case of violation of any such rule, he or she will be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner of
Official Languages.
10. In the event of any inconsistencies or discrepancies between
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
11. Examination fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 500. Payment
of examination fee can be made at any Divisional Secretariat or District
Secretariat to be credited to the revenue Head 2003-99-00 of
Commissioner of Official Languages. The receipt obtained for the
payment of the examination fees from the Divisional/District
Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application
form. (It is advisable to retain a photocopy of the same with you).
For no reason will these examination fees be refunded.
12. Candidates should carefully provide the accurate information
when filling the application. If it is revealed that a candidate does not
have the necessary qualifications, the candidature can be cancelled at
any time, before, after or during the examination. If it is revealed after
appointment to the post that some information given is incorrect,
he/she will be dismissed from the public service.
13. The application should be prepared using A4 (24x29cm) size
papers as follows :
(a) Section 1 to 3.4 on the first page ; and
(b) Section 4 onwards in the next pages.
(c) When preparing applications, the title of the examination
should be in both Sinhala and English Languages in
applications prepared in Sinhala and in both Tamil and
English in applications prepared in Tamil. The application
should be clearly filled in the candidate's handwriting.
13.1 The top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the
application form is enclosed should carry the words
“Recruitment to the Post of Translator (Tamil/English)
and (Sinhala/Tamil) - 2014”.
13.2 The duly perfected application should be sent under
registered cover to reach the following address on or before
10.11.2014. Late applications will not be entertained.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages,
No. 341/7, Bhasha Mandiraya,
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
13.6 The signature of the applicant given in the application
form has to be attested by a principal of a government
school, a justice of the peace, a Commissioner for Oaths,
Notary Public, a Commissioner Officer in the Armed
Forces, or by a Public officer who is confirmed this post
and who receives an  annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or
above.
13.7 Those who are already in public service should send the
applications through their respective heads of Department/
Institute.
14. Any of the following documents should be produced to the
examiner in charge of the examination hall establish to the identity of
the candidate.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of persons.
(ii) A valid passport.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2138
15. The right to decide on any matter not mentioned in this
notification rests with the Commissioner of Official Languages.
Applicants should abide by the general rules referred to in this Gazette
notification.
By order of Public Service Commission,
J. D. C. JAYASINGHE,
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages.
No. 341/7, Bhasha Mandiraya,
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
25th September, 2014.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF TRANSLATOR (TAMIL/ENGLISH) AND
(SINHALA/TAMIL)
For office use
The post applied :
(Indicate the relevant number)
01. Translator (Tamil/English)
02. Translator (Sinhala/Tamil)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.2 Full name :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Full name :–––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 NIC No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Official address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.3 Official address :–––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 The address to which the admission should be sent
:–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.5 Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
2.6 The district of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
2.7 The duration of residency :–––––––––––.
2.8 GS Division :–––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.2 Civil Status :
Married - 1
Unmarried -2
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 10.11.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Educational qualifications :
4.1 (a) Degree :–––––––––––.
(b) The year in which the degree was obtained and the
university :–––––––––––.
(c) Subjects of the degree :–––––––––––.
4.2 The G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and the month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
4.3 The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and the month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
05. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law for any accusation
at :
(3 Mark in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
If ‘Yes’ give details :–––––––––––.
06. Examination Fees :
(i) The office at which the examination fee was paid :–––––.
(ii) Receipt number and the date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Paste here firmly the receipt for the payment of
the examination fee
(keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.10.2014
2139
07. Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby declare that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and accurate to my knowledge and belief and that
I agree to a decision to cancel my candidature before, during or after
the examination if it is found that I am disqualified in terms of the
conditions applicable to it.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................................... who has
signed above is known to me personally and that he/she placed the
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the attestor.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(For applicants currently in the Public Service)
Certification of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................
has been serving in this office since ........................ and that his/her
performance and conduct is quite satisfactory and that I have
examined all the information given above by referring the office records
personally and that the information furnished is accurate and that he/
she signed in my presence on ................. of ..................... 2014.
The applicant can/cannot be released from his/her service if
selected for the above post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–450
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.