

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1721$2 - 2011 wf.daia;= 29 jeks i|qod - 2011'08'29
No. 1721/2  -  MONDAY   AUGUST   29,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
L.D. B 11/79.
THE  PREVENTION  OF  TERRORISM  (TEMPORARY  PROVISIONS)  ACT  No.  48  OF  1979
REGULATIONS made by the President under section 27 of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48
of 1979 read with paragraph (2) of Article 44 of the Constitution.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA
President.
Colombo,
August  29, 2011.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism (Proscription of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam) Regulations No. 1 of 2011.
2. In furtherance of the efforts of the Government of Sri Lanka made in good faith for the purpose of ensuring the
continuance of peace within the country, the organization named and styled as the “Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam” is
hereby proscribed.
3. No person shall within or outside Sri Lanka:
(a) be a member or cadre of;
(b) provide leadership to;
(c) wear, display, hoist or possess the uniform, dress, symbol, emblem, or flag of;
(d) summon, convene, conduct or take part in a meeting of ;
(e) obtain membership of join;
(f) harbour, conceal, assist a member, cadre or any other associate of;
(g) promote, encourage, support, advice, assist, act on behalf of;
(h) organize or take part in any activity or event of;
(i) donate or contribute money or material;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
2A
(j) procure, store, transport, possess or distribute material for or of;
(k) espouse the cause of or represent;
(l) engage in any transaction with; or
(m) cause the dissemination of information on behalf of,
the organisation known as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam or any other organization representing or acting on behalf of
the said, organization, or be connected with or concerned in or be reasonably suspected of being connected with or
concerned in any other activities specified above.
4. Any person who acts in contravention of regulation 3 of these regulations, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall
on conviction by the High Court established for the Western Province under Article 154 P of the Constitution held in
Colombo, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment not exceeding twenty years.
5. Any person who conspires to commit, attempt, abet, engage in any conduct in preparation to commit an offence
in contravention of regulation 3 of these regulations, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall upon conviction by the High
Court established for the Western Province under Article 154P of the Constitution held in Colombo, be sentenced to a term
of imprisonment not exceeding ten years.
6. Where an offence under these regulations is committed by a body of persons, then, in addition to the persons
directly responsible for the committing of the offence —
(i) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every director and the principal executive officer of such body
corporate;
(ii) if that body of persons is a partnership, every partner and the principal executive officer of such partnership;
and
(iii) if that body of persons is a body unincorporated other than a firm, the leader of such body of persons, group
of organization and every officer of that body responsible for the management and control of such body,
shall, in addition to such body of persons, be deemed to be guilty of such offence.
7. (1) Where the President is satisfied, after such inquiry as he thinks fit, that any person has custody of any
moneys, securities or credits which are being used or are intended to be used, for the purposes of the proscribed organization,
the President may, by order in writing declare that such moneys, securities and credits as are in the custody of any such
person, or any moneys, securities and credits which may come into his custody after the making of such order and any other
movable or immovable property belonging to such organization, shall be forfeited to the State.
(2) The decision of the President under paragraph (1) shall be final and conclusive.
8. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that the provisions of these regulations shall not in any way
affect the right of an international organization which the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject
of Defence may from time to time specify by order in writing, and  which has entered into an agreement with the Government
of Sri Lanka, to engage in any activity connected with the rendering of humanitarian assistance.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
3A
L.D. B 11/79.
THE PREVENTION OF TERRORISM (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT No. 48 OF 1979
REGULATIONS made by the President under section 27 of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48
of 1979 read with paragraph (2) of Article 44 of the Constitution.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
President.
Colombo,
August  29, 2011.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism (Proscription of the Tamil Rehabilitation Organization)
Regulations No. 2 of 2011.
2. For the purposes of ensuring public security, for the preservation of public order and for upholding the Rule of
Law, the Organization styled as the “Tamil Rehabilitation Organization” is hereby proscribed.
3. From and after the date of the coming into operation of these regulations, any person who, —
(a) wears any uniform, dress, symbol or other emblem, which signifies or indicates any association with, or
membership of, or adherence to the “Tamil Rehabilitation Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the
“proscribed organization”); or
(b) summons or attends any meeting of the proscribed organization or participates or engages in any activity of,
or any activity connected with or related to the said proscribed organization; or
(c) supports the proscribed organization, by inviting or exhorting persons to be enrolled as members, or by
contributing or collecting funds, or by furnishing information or securing any other assistance to the said
proscribed organization; or
(d) harbours, conceals or in any other manner assists any member of the proscribed organization, with intention
thereby to prevent, hinder or interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of such member; or
(e) makes, prints, distributes or publishes or is in any way connected with or concerned in the making, printing,
distribution or publication of any written or printed matter, which is or which purports to be printed, by or on
behalf of the proscribed organization or by any member thereof; or
(f) communicates or attempts or communicate to any other person in any manner whatsoever, any order,
decision, declaration or exhortation made or purported to have been made by the proscribed organization or
by any member thereof, or any information relating thereto, for the purpose of advancing the objectives of
the said proscribed organization,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a period not exceeding fifteen years.
4. Any person who acts in contravention of regulation 3 of these regulations, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall
on conviction by the High Court establishment for the Western Province under Article 154
P of the Constitution held in
Colombo, be sentenced to a  term of imprisonment not exceeding twenty years.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2011
4A
5. Any person who conspires to commit, attempt, abet, engage in any conduct in preparation to commit an offence
in contravention of regulation 3 of these regulations, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall upon conviction by the High
Court established for the Western Province under Article 154
P of the Constitution held in Colombo, be sentenced to a term
of imprisonment not exceeding ten years.
6. (1) Where the President  is satisfied, after such inquiry as he thinks fit, that any person has custody of any money,
securities or credits which are being used or which are intended to be used, for the purposes of the proscribed organization,
the President may by order in writing declare that such moneys, securities and credits as are in the custody of such person,
or any such moneys, securities and credits which may come into his custody after the making of such order and any other
movable or immovable property belonging to the said proscribed organization, shall be forfeited to the State.
(2) The decision of the President under paragraph (1) shall be final and conclusive.
7. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared that the provisions of these regulations shall not in any way
affect the right of an international organization which the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject
of Defence may from time to time specify by order in writing, and which has entered into an agreement with the Government
of Sri Lanka, to engage in any activity connected with the rendering of humanitarian assistance.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA