

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2348$48 - 2023 iema;eïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'09'08
No. 2348/48 -  Friday ,   September  08, 2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- pG 6481 - 256 (09/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
THE  DIPLOMATIC  PRIVILEGES  ACT,  No. 09  OF  1996
Order  under Section 4  
bY  virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the diplomatic privileges act, No. 9 of 1996, i, m. U. m. ali Sabry, 
minister of Foreign affairs, do, by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid act shall apply in respect of the Host 
Country agreement between the Government of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka and the international Centre
for research in agroforestry (iCraF), to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of articles iV, V, Vi, iX, X, Xi, 
Xii, Xiii, XiV, XV and XVi of the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the international Centre for research in 
agroforestry (iCraF), signed on 14th September, 2022 the relevant articles of the agreement are recited in the Schedule 
hereto.
M. U. M. Ali SAbrY, P.C. M.P.,
minister of Foreign affairs.
Colombo,
25th august, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
2a
SCHEDULE
HOST COUNTRY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THE INTERNATIONAL CENTRE FOR 
RESEARCH IN AGROFORESTRY (ICRAF)
ARTICLE  IV
Undertakings of the Government with regard to the Centre
 1. iCraF, its assets, income and other property shall be exempt from all direct taxes.
	2.	 ICRAF	shall	be	exempt	from	customs	duty,	Value	Added	Tax	(VAT)	and	any	other	taxes	or	fiscal	charges	on	all	materials,	
equipment,	articles,	vehicles,	machinery,	publications	and	supplies	imported	or	exported	by	ICRAF	for	its	official	use,	
provided the said goods are purchased, imported or exported prior to clearance through customs. Such goods, imported 
free of duties and taxes, shall not be transferred or disposed of within the Country unless appropriate duties and taxes 
are paid, or the said goods sold or transferred to similarly privileged persons or organisations or re-exported.
	3.	 ICRAF	will	be	exempt	from	taxation	on	materials	and	equipment	contracted	or	purchased	locally	for	its	official	use.
 
ARTICLE  V
Undertakings of The Government with Regard to The Centre's Scientific and
Administrative Staff
 1. the Government shall grant iCraF's technical and administrative staff and their dependants, privileges and immunities 
not less favourable than those granted to the staff of comparable rank of other international organisations in the democratic 
Socialist republic of Sri Lanka. Without limitation to the foregoing, the Government undertakes:
 a. to grant exemption from income tax or social security contributions on income or emoluments received by them 
from iCraF;
 b. to exempt them from the payment of customs duty, sales tax and Value added tax (V at) on their new or used 
personal	and	household	effects	and	motor	vehicles	imported	by	them	within	the	first	six	months	of	their	first	arrival	
in the Country or such other period as may be approved by the Government on each particular case provided that 
such personal and household effects imported free of duties and taxes shall not be transferred or sold within the 
Country unless appropriate duties and taxes are paid or the effects are transferred or sold to similarly privileged 
persons or organisations or are re-exported subject to the protocol Guidelines of the democratic Socialist republic 
of Sri Lanka;
 c.  to grant them and their dependants' exemption from national service obligations, alien registration, and immigration 
restrictions and to provide them and their dependants with re-entry permits at no charge and subsequent renewals 
thereof;
 d. to extend to them and their dependants such repatriation facilities in times of international crisis as are extended 
by the Government to staff of other international organisations;
 e. to permit them or their dependants to bring into the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka a reasonable 
amount of foreign currency for personal use and to withdraw and repatriate such amount from the democratic 
Socialist republic of Sri Lanka under external account facilities, in accordance with the prevailing foreign exchange 
regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, as applicable to other international organisations;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
3a
 f. to permit them the freedom of travel, movement and communication necessary for the carrying out of the Centre's 
objectives;
 g. to facilitate the clearance through customs of their new or used personal and household effects and to issue them 
with identity cards;
 h. to grant such persons (iCraF's technical and administrative staff) immunity from legal process in respect of words 
spoken	or	written	and	acts	performed	by	them	in	their	official	capacity;	such	immunity	will	continue	notwithstanding	
that	the	person	concerned	may	have	ceased	to	be	an	official	of	ICRAF;
 2. the Government shall grant non-resident consultants and other professionals engaged by iCraF the privileges and 
immunities set forth in paragraphs i (a), i (d), i (e), i (f), i (g) above.
 3. the provisions of this article shall not apply to iCraF staff who are citizens of the democratic Socialist republic of 
Sri Lanka.
ARTICLE VI
Undertakings of the Government with regard to the Director General, 
Deputy Director General and Designated ICRAF Officials
	1.	 The	Government	shall	grant	to	the	Director	General	and	any	other	official	acting	on	his/	her	behalf	during	his/	her	
absence from the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka the privileges and immunities, exemptions and facilities 
accorded	to	officials	of	the	comparable	ranks	of	other	international	and	intergovernmental	organizations.	The	same	shall	
be accorded in respect of his/ her spouse and minor children.
	2.	 The	Government	shall	grant	to	the	Deputy	Director(s)	General	and	any	other	officials	so	designated	by	the	Director	
General the privileges and immunities, exemptions and facilities accorded to the members of comparable ranks of other 
international and intergovernmental organizations. the same shall be accorded in respect of their spouses and minor 
children.	To	this	effect,	the	Director	General	shall	provide	a	list	of	the	names	of	these	designated	officials	and	shall	
advise the Government of any changes to this list.
ARTICLE IX
Importation, Exportation, Transportation and Use of Materials and Equipment
 1.  iCra F may, subject to Sri Lanka atomic energy act No. 40 of 2014, rules No. 1 of 2015 published in  
Extraordinary Gazette dated 21.07.2015 and General Safety requirements (GSr) part 3 issued by international atomic 
energy agency, and other relevant laws and regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka import and 
export	all	such	materials,	equipment,	articles,	vehicles,	machinery,	including	all	scientific	and	biological	materials,	
publications and supplies as iCraF shall deem to be required for its operations, including any operations that may be 
developed in the future.
 2. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, iCraF may pursuant to getting necessary clearance from the 
relevant authorities in Sri Lanka:
 a. carry out experimental work in designated or reserved zones of the national territory;
 b. import, export, transport and use radioactive material or biological or biochemical substance that it may need to 
carry out its activities, whether for its own purposes or in the framework of regional and international programmes 
of co-operation.
 3. in carrying out the activities referred to in paragraph 2(b) above, iCraF shall: 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
4a
 a. comply with the laws and regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka governing the protection 
of nature and the environment and those pertaining to national security;
 b. comply with the laws and regulations in force concerning quarantine and inspection with respect to biological and 
genetic material, in order to prevent the introduction or export of diseases and pests in or out of the country; and
 c.  generally, take all reasonable precautions, including those set out in the international Safety Standards and 
Specifications,	to	ensure	the	safety	of	these	substances	and	materials.
ARTICLE  X
The Facilities of ICRAF in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
 1. the facilities of iCraF shall include the land and the administrative premises that iCraF occupies or will occupy to 
carry out its activities. iCraF will be authorised to place its emblem on its buildings, facilities and equipments.
 2. if iCraF need additional land to carry out its programmes the Government may consider facilitating iCraF acquiring 
such land.
ARTICLE  XI
Inviolability of the Facilities
 1. the premises of iCraF shall be inviolable.
 2. all records, correspondence, documents and other materials of iCraF shall be inviolable.
 3. iCraF shall have the power to make regulations applicable within its facilities in order to establish therein all necessary 
conditions for its operation, subject to the laws and regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
 4. Without prejudice to the provisions of this agreement, iCraF shall prevent its facilities from becoming a refuge for 
persons avoiding arrest under the laws of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka or who are required by the 
Government for extradition to another country or for persons who are endeavouring to avoid service of the legal process.
ARTICLE  XII
Immunity from Legal Process
 1. iCraF, its property, assets and other facilities, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall enjoy immunity from 
every form of legal process except insofar as, in any particular instance, it has waived its immunity.
ARTICLE  XIII
Communications and Publications
	1.	 ICRAF's	official	communications	shall	be	entitled	to	the	same	treatment	enjoyed	by	other	international	organizations,	
which have representation in the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
 2. iCraF shall be authorised to install or use radio and telecommunication facilities, subject to the approval of the 
competent authorities of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka and under the conditions prescribed by them 
for other international organisations of similar nature.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
5a
3. iCraF shall be free to publish such documents and reports in the territory of democratic Socialist republic of Sri 
Lanka	as	it	shall	find	appropriate	in	the	exercise	of	its	official	and	scientific	functions.	It	is,	nevertheless,	understood	
that iCraF shall comply with the laws and regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka regarding 
intellectual property, as well as those international agreements on intellectual property to which the Government of the 
democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka is a party.
ARTICLE  XIV
Financial Provisions
  Subject to the laws and regulations on Foreign exchange of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka;
 1. iCraF may reserve and hold funds or currency of any kind and operate bank and similar accounts in any currency.
 2. iCraF may freely transfer its funds or currencies from one country to another or within the democratic Socialist 
republic of Sri Lanka and convert any currency held by it into any other currency and undertake any other foreign 
exchange operation in furtherance of its objectives.
ARTICLE  XV
Waiver of Immunities
  the immunities and privileges accorded under this agreement are granted in the interests of iCraF and not for the 
personal	benefit	of	the	persons	involved.	The	Director	General	or	his/	her	representative	shall	have	the	duty	to	waive	
the immunity of any such persons in cases where, in his/ her opinion, such immunity would impede the course of justice 
and can be waived without prejudice to the interests of iCraF.
ARTICLE XVI
Abuse of Privileges
 1. iCraF, its director General and designated representative's resident in the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka 
shall co-operate at all times with the Government to facilitate the proper administration of justice and the observance of 
the laws of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka and avoid the abuse of immunities and privileges accorded 
to iCraF under this agreement.
 2. if the Government considers there has been an abuse of a privilege or immunity conferred by this agreement consultations 
shall be held between the Government and iCraF to determine whether any such abuse has taken place and to attempt 
to ensure that no repetition occurs. if it is proved that there has been abuse of a privilege or immunity, the director 
General shall recourse to the procedure stated in article XV .
eOG 09 - 0073/1
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
THE DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES ACT, No. 9 OF 1996
Order under Section 4
by virtue of the powers vested in me by section 4 of the diplomatic privileges act, No.9 of 1996, i, m. U. m.  ali Sabry , 
minister of Foreign affairs , do, by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid act shall apply in respect of the 
international atomic energy agency  to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of articles ii,iii,iV ,V ,Vi and Vii of 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
6a
the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the international atomic energy agency to which Sri Lanka has been 
a member since 1957, the relevant articles of the agreement are recited in the Schedule hereto, subject to the reservations 
with regard to said articles stipulated in annex i hereto.
 M. U. M. A li  S Abr Y, P.C. M.P.,
 minister of Foreign affairs.
Colombo,
25th august, 2023.
SCHedULe
AGREEMENT  ON  THE  PRIVILEGES  AND  IMMUNITIES  OF  THE
INTERNATIONAL  ATOMIC  ENERGY  AGENCY
article  ii 
JUridiCaL perSONaLity
Section 2
the agency shall possess juridical personality. it shall have the capacity (a) to contract, (b) to acquire and dispose of immovable 
and movable property and (c) to institute legal proceedings.
article  iii
prOperty, FUNdS aNd aSSetS
Section 3
the agency, its property and assets, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall enjoy immunity from every form of 
legal process except in so far as in any particular case it has expressly waived its immunity. it is, however, understood that 
no waiver of immunity shall extend to any measure of execution.
Section 4
the premises of the agency shall be inviolable. the property and assets of the agency, wherever located and by whomsoever 
held,	shall	be	immune	from	search,	requisition,	confiscation,	expropriation	and	any	other	form	of	interference,	whether	by	
executive, administrative, judicial or legislative action.
Section 5
the archives of the agency, and in general all documents belonging to it or held by it, shall be inviolable, wherever located.
Section 6
Without	being	restricted	by	financial	controls,	regulations	or	moratoria	of	any	kind:
 (a) the agency may hold funds, gold or currency of any kind and operate accounts in any currency;
 (b) the agency may freely transfer its funds, gold or currency from one country to another or within any country and 
convert any currency held by it into any other currency.
Section 7
the agency, shall, in exercising its rights under section 6, pay due regard to any representations made by the Government 
of  any  State party to this agreement in so far as it is considered that effect can be given to such representations without 
detriment to the interests of the agency.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
7a
Section 8
the agency, its assets, income and other property shall be:
 (a) exempt from all direct taxes; it is understood, however, that the agency will not claim exemption from taxes which 
are, in fact, no more than charges for public utility services;
 (b)  e xempt from customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles imported 
or	exported	by	the	Agency	for	its	official	use;	it	is	understood,	however,	that	articles	imported	under	such	exemption	
will not be sold in the country into which they were imported except under conditions agreed to with the Government 
of that country;
 (c) exempt from duties and prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of its publications.
Section 9
While the agency will not, as a general rule, claim exemption from excise duties and from taxes on the sale of movable and 
immovable property which form part of the price to be paid, nevertheless when the agency is making important purchases for 
official	use	of	property	on	which	such	duties	and	taxes	have	been	charged	or	are	chargeable,	States	parties	to	this	Agreement	
will, whenever possible, make appropriate administrative arrangements for the remission or return of the amount of duty or tax.
article  iV
FaCiLitieS  iN  reSpeCt  OF  COmmUNiCatiONS
Section 10
the agency shall enjoy, in the territory of each State party to this agreement and as far as may be compatible with any 
international	conventions,	regulations	and	arrangements	to	which	that	State	is	a	party,	for	its	official	communications,	
treatment not less favourable than that accorded by the Government of such a State to any other Government, including the 
latter's diplomatic mission, in the matter of priorities, rates and taxes for posts and telecommunications, and press rates for 
information to the press and radio.
Section 11
No	censorship	shall	be	applied	to	the	official	correspondence	and	other	official	communications	of	the	Agency.
The	Agency	shall	have	the	right	to	use	codes	and	to	dispatch	and	receive	correspondence	and	other	official	communications	
by courier or in sealed bags, which shall have the same immunities and privileges as diplomatic couriers and bags.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to preclude the adoption of appropriate security precautions to be determined by 
agreement between a State party to this agreement and the agency.
article  V
repreSeNtatiVeS  OF  memberS
Section 12
representatives of member sat meetings convened by the agency shall, while exercising their functions and during their 
journeys to and from the place of meeting, enjoy the following privileges and immunities:
 (a) immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of their personal baggage, and in respect of words 
spoken	or	written	and	all	acts	done	by	them	in	their	official	capacity,	immunity	from	legal	process	of	every	kind;
 (b) inviolability for all papers and documents;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
8a
 (c) the right to use codes and to receive papers or correspondence by courier or in sealed bags;
 (d) exemption in respect of themselves and their spouses from immigration restrictions, aliens' registration or national 
service obligations in the State which they are visiting or through which they are passing in the exercise of their 
functions;
 (e) the same facilities in respect of currency or exchange restrictions ae are accorded to representatives of foreign 
Governments	on	temporary	official	missions;
 
 (f) the same immunities and facilities in respect of their personal baggage as are accorded to members of comparable 
rank of diplomatic missions.
Section  13
in order to secure for the representatives of members of the agency at meetings convened by the agency complete freedom 
of speech and complete independence in the discharge of their duties, the immunity from legal process in respect of words 
spoken or written and all acts done by them in discharging their duties shall continue to be accorded, not withstanding that 
the persons concerned are no longer engaged in the discharge of such duties.
Section  14
Where the incidence of any form of taxation depends upon residence, periods during which the representatives of members 
of the agency at meetings convened by the agency are present in a member State for the discharge of their duties shall not 
be considered as periods of residence.
Section  15
Privileges	and	immunities	are	accorded	to	the	representatives	of	Members,	not	for	the	personal	benefit	of	the	individuals	
themselves, but in order to safeguard the independent exercise of their functions in     connexion with the agency. Consequently, 
a member not only has the right but is under a duty to waive the immunity of its representatives in any case where, in the 
opinion of the member, the immunity would impede the course of justice,and where it can be waived without prejudice to 
the purpose for which the immunity is accorded.
Section  16
the provisions of sections 12, 13 and 14 are not applicable in relation to the authorities of a State of which the person is a 
national or of which he is or has been a representative.
article  Vi
OFFiCiaLS
Section  17
the agency shall from time to time make known to the Governments of all States parties to this agreement the names of the 
officials	to	whom	the	provisions	of	this	Article	and	of	Article	IX	apply.
Section  18
		a.	Officials	of	the	Agency	shall:
	 (i)	 Be	 immune	from	legal	process	in	respect	of	words	spoken	or	written	and	all	acts	performed	by	them	in	their	official	
capacity;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
9a
 (ii) enjoy the same exemptions from taxation in respect of the salaries and emoluments paid to them by the agency 
and	on	the	same	conditions	as	are	enjoyed	by	officials	of	the	United	Nations;
 (iii) be immune, together with their spouses and relatives dependent on them, from immigration restrictions and alien 
registration;
	 (iv)	Be	 accorded	the	same	privileges	in	respect	of	exchange	facilities	as	are	accorded	to	officials	of	comparable	rank	
of diplomatic missions;
 (v) be given, together with their spouses and relatives dependent on them, the same repatriation facilities in time of 
international	crises	as	officials	of	comparable	rank	of	diplomatic	missions;
	 (vi)	Have	 the	right	to	import	free	of	duty	their	furniture	and	effects	at	the	time	of	first	taking	up	their	post	in	the	country	
in question.
	 b.		Officials	of	the	Agency	shall,	while	exercising	the	functions	of	an	inspector	under	Article	XII	of	the	Statute	of	the	
Agency	or	those	of	a	project	examiner	under	Article	XI	thereof,	and	while	travelling	in	their	official	capacity	enroute	to	
and from the performance of these functions, enjoy all the additional privileges and immunities set forth in article Vii 
of this agreement so far as is necessary for the effective exercise of such functions.
Section  19
The	officials	of	the	Agency	shall	be	exempt	from	national	service	obligations,	provided	that,	in	relation	to	the	States	of	which	
they	are	nationals,	such	exemption	shall	be	confined	to	officials	of	the	Agency	whose	names	have,by	reason	of	their	duties,been	
placed upon a list compiled by the director General of the agency and approved by the State concerned.
Should	other	officials	of	the	Agency	be	called	up	for	national	service,	the	State	concerned	shall,	at	the	request	of	the	Agency,	
grant	such	temporary	deferments	in	the	call-up	of	such	officials	as	may	be	necessary	to	avoid	interruption	in	the	continuation	
of essential work.
Section  20
In	addition	to	the	privileges	and	immunities	specified	in	sections18	and	19	above,	the	Director	General	of		the	Agency,	
including	any	official	acting	on	his	behalf	during	his	absence	from	duty,		shall	be	accorded	on	behalf	of	himself,		his	spouse	
and  minor children, the privileges and immunities, exemptions and facilities accorded to diplomatic envoys on behalf of 
themselves, their spouses and minor children, in accordance with international law. the same privileges and immunities, 
exemptions	and	facilities	shall	also	be	accorded	to	a	Deputy	Director	General	or	official	of	equivalent	rank	of	the	Agency.
Section 21
Privileges	and	immunities	are	granted	to	officials	in	the	interest	of	the	Agency	only	and	not	for	personal	benefit	of	the	individuals	
themselves.	The	Agency	shall	have	the	right	and	the	duty	to	waive	the	immunity	of	any	officials	in	any	case	where,	in	its	
opinion, the immunity would impede the course of justice and can be waived without prejudice to the interests of the agency.
Section  22
the agency shall co-operate at all times with the appropriate authorities of member States to facilitate the proper administration 
of justice, secure the observance of police regulations and prevent the occurrence of any abuses in connexion with the 
privileges, immunities and facilities mentioned in this article.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
10a
article  Vii
eXpertS ON miSSiONS FOr tHe aGeNCy
Section  23 
Experts	(other	than	officials	coming	within	the	scope	of	Article	VI)	serving	on	committees	of	the	Agency	or	performing	missions	for	the	
agency, including missions as inspectors under article Xii of the Statute of the agency and as project examiners under article Xi thereof, 
shall be accorded the following privileges and immunities so far as is necessary for the effective exercise of their functions, including the 
time spent on journeys in connexion with service on such committees or missions:
 (a) immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of their personal baggage;
	 (b)	 In	 respect	of	words	spoken	or	written	or	acts	done	by	them	in	the	performance	of	their	official	functions,	immunity	
from legal process of every kind, such immunity to continue notwithstanding that the persons concerned are no 
longer serving on committees of, or employed on missions for, the agency;
 (c) inviolability for all papers and documents;
 (d)  For the purposes of their communications with the agency, the right to use codes and to receive papers or 
correspondence by courier or in sealed bags;
 (e) the same facilities in respect of currency and exchange restrictions as are accorded to representatives of foreign 
Governments	on	temporary	official	missions;
 (f) the same immunities and facilities in respect of their personal baggage as are accorded to members of comparable 
rank of diplomatic missions.
Section  24
Nothing in sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) of section 23 shall be construed to preclude the adoption of appropriate security 
precautions to be determined by agreement between a State party to this agreement and the agency.
Section  25
Privileges	and	immunities	are	granted	to	the	experts	of	the	Agency	in	the	interests	of	the	Agency	and	not	for	personal	benefit	
of the individuals themselves. the agency shall have the right and the duty to waive the immunity of any expert in any case 
when in its opinion the immunity would impede the course of justice, and it can be waived without prejudice to the interests 
of the agency.
Annex I
 i. the Government of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, hereby declares that the capacity of the 
international atomic energy agency to acquire and dispose of immovable property under article ii, Section 2(b) 
shall be exercised with due regard to national laws and regulations.
 ii. the Government of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka declares that application of privileges and 
immunities	provided	in	Section	18	(ii),	(iii),	(iv),	and	(v)	shall	not	be	extended	to	the	officials	of	the	IAEA	who	
are Sri Lankan nationals serving in Sri Lanka.
 iii. application of privileges and immunities provided in Section 23 (a), 23 (b) except immunity granted in respect of 
words	spoken	or	written	or	acts	done	in	the	performance	of	their	official	functions,	23	(c)	except	immunity	granted	
to	official	papers	and	documents;	and	23	(e)	shall	not	be	extended	to	the	officials	of	the	IAEA	who	are	Sri	Lankan	
nationals serving in Sri Lanka.
 iv. Notwithstanding Sections 20 and 32, the Government of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka reserves 
the right to apply the national legislation, national policies concerning duties and excise taxes.
 v. the provisions relating to the holding of funds, gold or currency of any kind and of accounts in any currency and 
to the transfer and convertibility of such currency in Sri Lankan territory under Section 6 shall be subject to the 
relevant national legal provisions in force in the Government of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
eOG 09 - 0073/2

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
11 a
THE DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES ACT, No. 9 OF 1996
Order under Section 4
by virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the diplomatic privileges act, No. 9 of 1996, i, m. U. m. ali Sabry, 
minister of Foreign affairs, do, by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid act shall apply in respect of the 
agreement between the Government of the democratic Socialis t republic of Sri Lanka and the Global Green Growth 
institute(GGGi) regarding the Legal Status and privileges and immunities of the Global Green Growth institute, to the 
extent necessary to give effect to the terms of articles 2, 3, 4,5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10 and 11 of the agreement on the privileges and 
immu nities of the Global Gr een Growth institute ( GGGi), signed on 07th Februar y, 2023 the relevant articles of the  agreement 
are recited in the Schedule hereto.
M. U. M. A li  SAbr Y , P.C. M.P. ,
minister of Foreign affairs.
Colombo,
25th august, 2023.
SCHEDULE
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND 
THE GLOBAL GREEN GROWTH INSTITUTE REGARDING THE LEGAL STATUS AND PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES 
OF THE GLOBAL GREEN GROWTH INSTITUTE (GGGI)
Article 2
Legal personality and Capacities
 (1) GGGi is an international organization with international legal personality.
 (2) GGGi shall have juridical personality and the legal capacity to (i) to contract, (ii) to acquire and dispose of immovable
and movable property and (iii) to institute legal proceedings.
 (3) GGGi shall have the independence and freedom of action belonging to an international organization.
Article 3
Property and Assets
(1) GGGi and its property and assets, wherever located and by whomsoever held shall enjoy immunity from every form
of legal process, except in so far as in a particular case it has expressly waived its immunity. it is however understood
that no waiver of immunity shall extend to any measure of execution, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
(2) t he property and assets of GGG i wherever located and by whomsoever held shall be immune from search, requisition,
confiscation,	expropriation	or	any	other	form	of	interference,	whether	by	executive,	administrative,	judicial	or	legislative	
action.
(3) t he archives of GGG i shall be inviolable, wherever located.
(4)  t o the extent necessary to carry out the purpose and functions of the GGG i effectively, and subject to the provisions of
this agreement and the laws and regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, all property and assets 
of GGG i shall be free from restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
12a
Article 4
Exemption from Taxation and Custom Duties
(1) GGGi, its assets, income, and other property shall be:
	 (a)	 exempt	from	all	direct	taxes	except	those	which	are,	in	fact,	no	more	than	charges	for	specific	services	rendered;
 (b) exempt from prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles imported or exported by 
GGGI	for	its	official	use	and	in	the	case	of	any	publications	of	GGGI	imported	or	exported	by	it.	It	is	understood,	
however, that articles imported under such exemption will not be sold in the territory of the democratic Socialist 
republic of Sri Lanka except under conditions agreed to with the Government; and
	 (c)	 exempt	 from	customs	duties	on	the	importation	of	goods	imported	by	GGGI	for	its	official	use,	or	on	the	importation	
of publications of the organization subject to compliance with such consultations as the Government may prescribe.
(2)	 GGGI	will	be	exempt	from	taxation	on	material	purchased	locally	for	official	use.	Such	relief	to	be	subject	to	compliance	
with such conditions as may be imposed by the Government in accordance with the arrangements.
(3)	 GGGI	its	Officials	and	Experts	shall	not	be	subject	to	regulations	on	labor	and	social	security	in	the	Democratic	Socialist	
republic of Sri Lanka.
(4) GGGi shall be exempt from payment, withholding, or collection of any tax or duty other than public utility charges. 
Officials	shall	be	exempt	from	all	forms	of	taxation	on	or	in	respect	of	salaries,	allowances,	and	emoluments	paid	to	
them by GGGi.
Article 5
Communications
(1)	 Official	communications	of	GGGI	shall	be	accorded	by	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	treatment	
accorded to any other international organization.
(2) all communications to, from and through the territory of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka by whatever 
means or in whatever form transmitted shall be immune from censorship and any other form of interpretation or 
interference with their privacy. this does not preclude the adoption of appropriate security precautions to be determined 
after consultation between the Government and GGGi.
(3) GGGi shall have the right in the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka to use codes and to dispatch and receive 
correspondence and other communications either by courier or in sealed bags which shall have immunities and privileges 
not less favourable than those accorded to couriers and bags of similar international organizations. the bags must bear 
visibly	GGGI	emblems	and	shall	contain	only	documents	or	articles	intended	for	official	use,	and	the	courier	shall	be	
provided	with	a	courier	certificate	issued	by	GGGI.
Article 6
Freedom of Assembly, Meetings and Conferences
(1) GGGi with concurrence of the Government may convene meetings in the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
(2)	 GGGI	and	its	Officials	shall	enjoy	freedom	of	meeting,	discussion	and	decision	within	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	
of Sri Lanka subject to the laws and regulations in Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
13a
 (3) Visas and entry permits of all persons invited and accredited for meetings organized by GGGi, where required, shall 
be dealt with as speedily as possible in accordance with applicable laws.
Article 7
Flag, Emblem and Markings
GGGI	shall	have	the	right	to	display	its	flag	and/or	other	identifiers	on	its	premises	and	vehicles.
Article 8
Privileges and Immunities of Representatives of GGGI Members, Officials, Experts and
Other Persons Constituting the Assembly Council and Advisory Committee of GGGI
(1)	 Representatives	of	GGGI,	Members,	Officials,	Experts	and	other	persons	constituting	the	Assembly,	Council,	and	
advisory Committee shall, while exercising their functions and during their journeys to and from the place of meetings 
convened by GGGi, enjoy the following privileges and immunities subject to laws and regulations in Sri Lanka:
	 (a)	 Shall	 be	immune	from	legal	process	with	respect	to	acts	performed	by	them	in	their	official	capacity,	except	when	
GGGi waives the immunity,
 (b) Where they are not local citizens or nationals, shall be accorded the same treatment with respect to immigration 
requirements, alien registration requirements and national service obligations, and the same facilities as regards 
exchange regulations, as are accorded by Sri Lanka to persons of comparable ranks of other international 
organizations; and
 (c) Shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travelling facilities as is accorded by Sri Lanka to persons of 
comparable ranks of other international organizations.
(2) the Government shall grant to director-General, the deputy directors General, and the assistant director-Generals and 
other	officials	of	GGGI	the	privileges	and	immunities,	exemptions	and	facilities	accorded	to	the	members	of	comparable	
ranks of other international organizations. the same shall be accorded in respect of their spouses and minor children. 
to this effect, GGGi shall regularly make known to the Government the names of persons to whom paragraphs of this 
article apply.
(3) privileges and immunities contained in this article are not applicable to citizens of the democratic Socialist republic 
of Sri Lanka.
(4) GGGi shall cooperate with the appropriate authorities of the Government to facilitate the proper administration of 
justice and prevent the occurrence of any abuses in connection with the privileges, immunities, and facilities mentioned 
in this article.
(5)	 Immunity	from	legal	process	shall	not	apply	to	the	above	persons	in	the	case	of	motor	traffic	offences	committed	by	
them or in case of damage caused by a motor vehicle belonging to or driven by them.
Article 9
Office Premises
(3) except as otherwise provided in this agreement the laws of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka shall apply 
within	the	Office	and	the	Courts	of	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	shall	have	jurisdiction	over	acts	done	
in	the	Office.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
14a
(4)	 The	Office	premises	shall	be	inviolable	and	shall	be	under	the	control	and	authority	of	GGGI.	No	authorities	of	the	
Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	shall	enter	the	Office	premises	to	perform	any	duties	therein	without	the	
consent of and under conditions agreed to by GGGi. GGGi and the Government shall agree under what circumstances 
and	in	what	manner	the	authorities	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	may	enter	the	Office	premises	
without	prior	consent	of	GGGI	in	connection	with	fire	prevention,	sanitary	regulations	or	emergencies.
(5) GGGi shall have the right to install and operate in the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka point-to-point 
telecommunication facilities and other communication and transmission facilities as may be necessary to facilitate 
communications	with	the	Office	both	from	within	and	outside	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	pursuant	
to obtaining necessary approvals from the relevant authorities of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(6)	 GGGI	shall	have	the	power	to	make	rules	and	regulations	operative	within	the	Office	premises	for	the	full	and	
independent	exercise	of	its	operations	and	performance	of	its	functions.	In	the	event	of	conflict	between	such	GGGI	
rules and regulations and the laws of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, Government laws, rules and 
regulations shall prevail.
(7)	 GGGI	shall	have	the	right	to	convene	meetings	within	the	Office	premises,	subject	to	the	laws	and	regulations	of	Sri	
Lanka.
(8)	 The	Office	premises	shall	be	used	in	a	manner	compatible	with	GGGI's	purposes	and	functions.	GGGI	shall	prevent	
the	Office	premises	from	becoming	a	refuge	for	fugitives	from	justice	or	for	persons	subjected	to	extradition	or	persons	
avoiding service of legal process or a judicial proceeding.
(9) GGGi shall co-operate at all times with the appropriate authorities of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka 
to facilitate the proper administration of justice, secure the observance of police regulations and prevent the occurrence 
of any abuse in connection with the privileges, immunities and facilities mentioned in this agreement.
Article 10
Transit and Residence
 (1) the Government shall take all measures required to facilitate the entry into, departure from and freedom of movement 
in	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	and	with	regard	to	persons	assigned	to	the	Office,	residence	in	the	
democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka of the following persons without restriction and irrespective of nationality 
subject to the laws and regulations of Sri Lanka:
 (a)  r epresentatives  of GGG1 members and other persons constituting the assembly, the Council and advisory 
Committee while exercising their functions and during their journeys to and from the place of meetings convened 
by GGGi;
	 (b)	 Officials	of	GGGI;
 (c) experts;
	 (d)	 the	spouse	and	dependent	children	and	members	of	the	household	staff	of	Officials	and	Experts	of	GGGI	assigned	
to	the	Office;	and
	 (e)	 Other	 persons	invited	by	GGGI	on	official	business.	GGGI	shall	communicate	the	names	of	such	persons	to	the	
Government,	prior	to	the	arrival	of	such	officials.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.09.2023
15a
Article 11
Waiver of Privileges and Immunities
(1) the privileges and immunities granted by this agreement to persons are conferred in the interest of GGGi and not for 
the	personal	benefit	of	the	individuals	themselves.	It	is	the	duty	of	all	persons	enjoying	such	privileges	and	immunities	to	
observe in all other respects the laws and regulations of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka. the following 
authorities have the right and the duty to waive immunities of the following persons in a particular case where in their 
opinion, the immunity would impede the course of justice and can be waived without prejudice to the interests of GGGi:
 (a) the members of GGGi with respect to their representatives on the assembly and Council;
 (b) the assembly with respect to the director-General of GGGi;
 (c) the Council with respect to the experts or non-state actors who serve as members of the Council or advisory 
Committee; and
	 (d)	 the	 Director-General	of	GGGI	with	respect	to	Officials	of	GGGI	(other	than	him/herself),	Experts	and	GGGI	itself.
 (2) in all cases a waiver must be expressly made in writing.
eOG 09 - 0073/3
PriNTED AT THE DEPAr TMENT OF GOVErNMENT PriNTiNG,  Sri lANKA.