

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
1A
My No.: CI/464.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Ceylon Oxygen Limited, No. 50, Sri Pannananda Mawatha, Colombo 15 of the one part and
the Jathika Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 416, Kotte Road, Pitakotte of the other part on 19th day of  June 2013 regarding the Factory staff is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, chapter  131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th September, 2013.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT No. 17 OF 2013
Collective agreement  entered into between Ceylon Oxygen Limited having its registered office at No. 50, Sri Pannananda Mawatha ,
Colombo 15, a company duly registered in Sri Lanka and The Jathika Sewaka Sangamaya a trade union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having
its registered office at No. 416, Kotte Road, Pitakotte.
Whereas the Jathika Sewaka Sangamaya (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’) raised with Ceylon Oxygen Limited (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the Company’) certain demands relating to the revision of terms and conditions of employment of their members employed
in the Company and the said parties have, after negotiations, arrived at the following terms of settlement.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1833$1 – 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ 21 jeks i÷od – 2013'10'21
No. 1833/1 – MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2013
1A – G18406 – 190 (2013/10)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
1. This Agreement shall cover and bind the Company, the Union and the members of the Union, who are in employment in the
Company as at 01st January 2013 on permanent monthly contracts of employment in the categories of employment ranges as stipulated in
Schedule 1, which is annexed hereto.
2. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement with effect from 1st January 2013 shall be on the
basis of the salary ranges stipulated in Schedule 2.
3. To ascertain the salary payable to an employee with effect from 1st January 2013 on the basis of the salary ranges provided i n
Schedule 2 hereto the following provisions shall apply:
(a) The basic monthly salary as at 31,.12.2012 of all employees in the above mentioned grades, covered and bound by this
Agreement shall be increased by 12% and shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding salary ranges provided in Schedule
2 hereto.
(b) With effect from 01st Janauary 2014 the monthly salaries of all employees will be further revised by the addition of 12%
to their salaries as at 31st December 2013, and shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding salary ranges provided in
Schedule 2,
(c) With effect from 01st January 2015 the monthly salaries of all employees will further be revised by the addition of 10% to
their salaries as at 31st December 2014 and shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding salary ranges provided in
Schedule 2.
4. The allowances and other benefits that were revised have been set out in Schedule 3.
5. The annual increment date of all the employees will be the 1st of April each year and shall be granted as per the current practice.
6. The Union and the workmen covered by this agreement, jointly and severally agree that they shall not, during the operation of
this agreement, resort to trade union action of any sort on any matter that is covered by this agreement.
7. In th event that a dispute may arise in repect of any matter not covered by this agreement the union and the workmen
covered by this agreement agree that such dispute will be settled / resolved in the manner provided below:
(a) Whenever there is a dispute that is not covered by this agreement, a written statement of the dipute should be forwarded by
the Union’s Branch Committee to the Company, and at least two weeks given for the Company to resolve the dispute.
(b) If  no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be referred to the Parent Union and to the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon (EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.
(c) If after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the Parent Union, the conciliatory
proceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act shall be followed and parties shall endeavor to settle such dispute in
accordance with the provisions of the industrial disputes act.
8. The provisions of this Agreement shall be effective from 1st Day of Janauary 2013 and continue in force unless it is terminated
by either party giving one month’s notice in writing to the other, provided however that neither party shall give such notice t o the other
before the 30th November 2015 and the provisions of the Agreement shall not stand terminated until the 31st December 2015, in such event.
In witness whereof the parties hereunder have set their hands on this 19th day of June Two Thousand and Thirteen.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
3A
Niran Pieris
Chief Executive Officer
For and on behalf of
Ceylon Oxygen Limited
Suranga Naullage
Chief Organizer
For and on behalf of the
Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya
Witnesses:
Name: A. H. Upali
Designation: Administration - Manager
Name: B. D. S. Perera
Designation: President, JSS Factory Br, Ceylon Oxygen Ltd.
Collective agreement – Factory staff cond.


<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
SCHEDULE NO. 1
FACTORY STAFF GRADES
UNSKILLED
SEMI SKILLED
SKILLED GRADE 111
SKILLED GRADE II
SKILLED GRADE I
SKILLED SPECIAL
Collective Agreement – Factory staff
SCHEDULE NO. 2
SALARY RANGES
UNSKILLED Rs. 10,800.00 to Rs. 23,500.00 Annual Increment Rate Rs. 100.00
SEMI SKILLED Rs. 10,950.00 to Rs. 26,200.00 Annual Increment Rate Rs. 120.00
SKILLED III Rs. 11,200.00 to Rs. 28,750.00 Annual Increment Rate Rs. 140.00
SKILLED II Rs. 11,450.00 to Rs. 31,350.00 Annual Increment Rate Rs. 160.00
SKILLED I Rs. 11,850.00 to Rs. 34,000.00 Annual Increment Rate Rs. 180.00
SKILLED SPECIAL Rs. 12,300.00 to Rs. 36,800.00 Annual Increment Rate Rs. 200.00
Collective Agreement – Factory staff
SCHEDULE NO. 3
Attendance Allowance.–
Attendance allowance given to employess will increase to LKR 750 from the the existing LKR 600 which would be effective from 01 st
January 2013.
Medical Allowance .–
Medical allowance given to employees will increase to LKR 650/- from the existing LKR 520 which would be effective from 01st January
2013.
Shift Allowance .–
Shift Allowance given to employees agreed to increase by 15%..
11 – 154

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
5A
My No.: Cl/1795.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Finlays Colombo PLC, No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 of the one part and the Food
Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees’ Union, 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 26th day of May 2011
regarding the Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131,
of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V . B P . K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
08th October, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 27 of 2011
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement made on this 26th day of May Two Thousand Eleven, to take effect from the 01st day of January Two
Thousand Eleven, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between:
Finlays Colombo PLC having its registered office at No 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 (hereinafter referred to as the
“Employer”) of the One Part
AND
Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees’ Union a registered Trade Union having its office at 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”) of the  Second Part.
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Finlays Colombo PLC, Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff Collective
Agreement of 2011.
This Collective Agreement made this 26th day of May Two Thousand Eleven persuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between Finlays
Colombo PLC, a Company duly registered under the provisions of the Companies Act and having its registered office at No. 186, Vauxhall
Street, colombo 02, (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer”) of the One Part and Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Emplo yees
Union, a trade union duly registered under the provisions of the Trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at No.  513 2/1,
Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) of the Other Part witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the
parties as follows:
Title.–  This Agreement shall be known and referred to as Finlays Colombo PLC, Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff Collective
Agreement of 2011 and will supersede all previous Collective Agreements signed between the company and the union or any other unions
including “The clerical, Supervisory and allied staff collective agreement of 2004 signed with The Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial and General
Workers Union (CMU) on 23rd of September 2004.
Part I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO OR
CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall, subject as hereinafter provided, bind the Employer, the Union and all
employees as set out in clause 2 below and who are members of the union.
2. Employees to be Covered and Bound:–
(i) All Clerical,  Supervisory and Allied Staff,

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(ii) Such T echnical, Sales and Allied Staff as at the Twenty Third day of September Two Thousand and Four were covered
by the Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff Collective Agreemet No 36 of 2004 only to the extent that they were
covered thereby, and
(iii) Such Technical, Sales and Allied Staff in respect of those provisions of this Agreement and upon and subject to such
other terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed between the parties after the date hereof who are members of the
Union and who are employe by the Employer, save and except.
(a) staff holding executive or managerial positions,
or
(b) staff employed in manual work who are not expressly covered by this Agreement.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of January, Two Thousand Eleven and
shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving one month’s notice in writing to the other. Provided however
that neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other party before the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Thirteen. Provided
further that in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision of law, either party shall be at liberty to
abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.–
(i) The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall from the date hereof and during the continuance in force of this Agreement,
be deemed to be included in all the contracts of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contracts of service be written or oral, which are subsisting as at the
date hereof or which come into being during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(ii) ( a) The Union and its members who are employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with
the Employer that during the continuation in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or add to all or any
of the terms and conditions of the employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered by and bound
by this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this
Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
(b) Subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement, the Employer agrees that it shall not seek to vary or add to all or any
of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this
Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by and of the employees covered and bound by this
Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
(c) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under provisions of sub-clause ( a) or ( b) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
(iii) Where existing terms and conditions of employment of an Employee covered and bound by this Agreement are more
favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this Agreement then nothing in this Agreement shall in any way
affect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employment and such terms and conditions of employment shall
continue to exist notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.
(iv) Where an Employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled or becomes entitled on or after that date under or by
virtue of any law or under any contract, agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable than those
to which he would be entitled under this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorise
or permit the Employer to withhold, restrict or terminate such rights or privileges.
5. Hours of Work.– The normal working hours shall, during the continuance in force of this Agreement, be those hours which are
customarily worked at a store, factory, mill or job in the establishment of the Employer.
6. Overtime.–
(i) Any work which is performed in excess of normal working hours shall be remunerated at one and one half (1 1/2) times the
normal hourly rate.
(ii) Where it appears that in any establishment of an Employer and Employee on being asked to work overtime, other than on
a weekly holiday, is likely to work overtime for a period of more than two (2) hours after the normal working hours, the
Employee shall be entitled to an interval of not less than thirty (30) minutes at the end of such normal working hours before
commencing overtime work.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
7A
7. Weekly Holidays.– Subject to Clause 10 Part I hereof the following provisions shall govern weekly holidays:
(i) Subject to sub-clause (iii) hereof the weekly holidays prescribed by the Act shall be the weekly half holiday and the weekly
full holiday as defined in Part III hereof.
(ii) W ork performed on not more than two such weekly holidays in any one calendar month may, at the instance of the
Employer and with the consent of the Employee, be paid for in the manner set out hereunder and the Employee on being
paid in the manner set out hereunder shall not be entitled to a half holiday or a full holiday as the case may be in lieu:
(a) For any work perfomed after the normal closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall
be paid ovetime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of
an hour.
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remunera-
tion at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (a) above or paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Employee
shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one half day.
(d) For any work perfomed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the overtime
remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30) of the Employee’s monthly Salary.
(e) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m.  on the weekly
full holiday, the overtime remuneration  payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth  (1/30) of the Employee’s
monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
(f) For any work performed  in excess of eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration  at treble the normal hourly rate  for each hour or proportionately for
any fraction of an hour of such excess.
(g) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (d), or paragraphs (d) and (e) or paragraphs (d), (e) and (f)
above, the Employee’s shall be paid the  equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one day.
(iii) Where an Employee has performed work on not more than two weekly holidays in any one calendar month and has been
paid for such work in the manner set out in the preceding sube- clause, then in respect of work performed on any further
weekly holidays in the same calendar month the Employee shall be remunerated in the manner set out hereunder and shall
be entitled to and allowed a half holiday and/or a full holiday in lieu of the weekly half holiday and/or the weekly full holiday
as the case may be:-
(a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half  holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour.
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half  holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remunera-
tion at treble  the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the Employee’s monthly salary.
(d) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m.  on the weekly full
holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the employees monthly salary
in respect of the excess hours.
(e) For any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for
any fraction of an hour of such excess.
8. Casual Leave:– Leave for private business or for any other reason whatsoever, including ill-health if an Employee’s entitlement
of sick leave has been fully utilised, shall be allowed in accordance with the Employee’s entitlement under the act up to a maximum of seven
(7) days in each year of employment whereof not more than two (2) days at any one time shall be taken, save upon the grounds of ill-health.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
Such leave shall be known as Casual Leave and shall be additional to all other holidays and leave provisions but an Employee shall not be
entitled to take such Casual Leave preceding or following any period of Annual Leave. Casual Leave shall normally be granted on request
without the Employee being required to state the reason for the request. Where the Employer finds it difficult to grant an appl ication for
Casual Leave, his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee
may  be required to state the reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether or not it is reasonable in the
circumstances to grant the leave.
9. Statutory and Customary Holidays.– Subject to Clause 10 of Part I hereof, the following provisions shall govern statutory and
customary holidays:
(i) The following holidays shall be allowed each year as paid holidays:
New Year’ Day
Thai Pongal Festival Day
Independence Day
Sinhala and Tamil New Year (Two Days)
Good Friday
Holy Saturday (Half Day)
May Day
The Day following Wesak
Prophet Mohammed’s B’day
Christmas Eve (Half Day)
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
(ii) ( a) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and if it falls on a weekly half holiday, an additional half day shall be
granted on the working day immediately preceding it; and if it falls on a weekly full holiday, a substitute holiday shall
be granted on a working day either in six (6) days preceding or in the six (6) days succeeding such weekly full holiday.
No substitute holiday shall be allowable for any day specified above, which is not a statutory holiday, if such day falls
on a weekly half holiday or weekly full holiday.
(b) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and some other day not specified above is declared a statutory holiday
in substitution for such day, then such day shall be treated as a normal working day.
(iii) Muslim Employees shall normally on application be granted leave on the day following the end of Ramazan and on the
Hadji Festival Day; and Hindu Employees shall normally on application be granted leave on the Deepavali Festival Day;
and such leave shall be set off against any paid leave entitlement or if all such paid leave entitlement for that year shall be
exhausted, such leave may be granted as an un-paid holiday.
(iv) ( a) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work during either of the half holidays set out in sub-clause (i) hereof
(i.e. after the normal working hours for that day) the Employer shall pay the Employee either -
(i) on the basis set out in paragraphs ( a), (b) and (c) of Clause 7(ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall not be
entitled to a half holiday in lieu
or
(ii) on the basis set out in par agraphs (a) and (b) of Clause 7(iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall be entitled
to and allowed a half holiday in lieu.
(b) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work on any of the holidays set out in sub clause (i) hereof and provided
that if such holiday is a statutory holiday the Commissioner of Labour has given his permission for the Employee to
work on such holiday, the Employer shall pay the Employee either -
(i) on the basis set out in paragraphs ( d), (e), (f) and (g) of Clause 7(ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall not
be entitled to a holiday in lieu
or
(ii) on the basis set out in paragraphs ( c), (d) and (e) of Clause 7(iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall be
entitled to and allowed a holiday in lieu.
(v) An employer may discuss with the Union the possibility of removing one or more of the customary holidays on terms
which may be mutually agreed to by the parties.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
9A
10. Supervisory Staff.– The provisions of Clauses 7 and 9 of Part I hereof regarding weekly holidays and statutory and customary
holidays shall not apply to Storekeepers, Assistant Storekeepers, Overseers, Foremen and other like or similar categories whose  work
involves the supervision of staff employed in manual work (hereinafter referred to as “supervisory staff”) but in respect of such supervisory
staff the following provisions shall apply:
(i) Weekly half holiday: For any work performed in excess of the normal working hours on the weekly half holiday, the
Employees shall be remunerated at one and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate and such Employee shall not be
entitled to any holiday in lieu for any overtime work so performed on a weekly half holiday.
(ii) Weekly full holiday: For any work performed on the weekly full holiday the Employee shall be remunerated as follows:–
(a) (i)  for any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the Employee’s monthly salary .
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly
full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the Employee’s
monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or
proportionately for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
(iv) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (i) above or paragraphs (i) and (ii) or paragraphs (i),
(ii) and (iii) above, the employee shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one (1) day.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out above, the Emplyee
shall be entitled to any holiday in lieu.
or
(b) (i)  for any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the Employee’s monthly salary.
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly
full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30) of the Employee’s
monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or
proportionately for any fraction of an hour in respect of such excess.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out above, the
Employee shall in addition be entitled to and allowed a holiday in lieu.
(iii) Statutory and Customary Holidays.– Supervisory staff shall be entitled to such Statutory and Customary Holidays as they
have hitherto enjoyed prior to the coming into force of this Agreement notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in this Agreement and for any work performed on  such Statutory or Customary Holidays the Supervisory Staff shall
continue to be remunerated in the manner in which they were remunerated prior to the coming into force of this Agreement
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement. Provided however that the Supervisory Staff shall
have the same holidays as may from time to time be enjoyed by the staff employed in manual work supervised by such
supervisiory staff and that the total of such holidays shall not be less than the total of the Statutroy and Customary
Holidays enjoyed by the Supervisory Staf as at the date hereof.
(iv) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed in any way as bringing the Supervisory staff within the provisions of the Act.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
11. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be as prescribed by the Act and an Employee may opt to set off absence due to ill
health in excess of the entitilement provided under Clause 12 of Part I hereof against his annual leave entitlement.
12. Sick Leave.–
(i) An Employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty one (21) days leave, exclusive of weekly or other holidays, in any
one year in case of sickness, on full pay, subject to the  conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) The Employer will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a
certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner:
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two (2) days,
or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical
Practitioner, is in excess of ten (10) days in any one year and the Employer has reasonable cause for suspicion
of  the bona fides of the application of the Employee.
or
(c) where the absence of the Empoyee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any holiday
allowed under Clauses 8, 9 and 11 of Part I hereof.
Provided further that any Employee who has abused the concession confered by paragraph (a) above shall be liable to forfeit the
same and the Employer may by agreement with the Union accordingly withdraw such concession.
(iii) An Employee who takes less than twenty one (21) days sick leave in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled to
avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years subject to the following
provisions:–
(a) In no case shall the entitlement to sick leave on full pay in any one year by reason of such accumulation of
sick leave entitlement exceed ninety (90) days.
(b) The accumulated sick leave which an Employee is entitled to take in terms of sub clause (iii) (a) hereof may
be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalisation, infectious disease or similar circumstances, but
shall not be used for casual illness.
(c) An Employee who avails himself of accumulated sick leave in any year shall support such absence with a
cerificate from a Resgistered Medical Practitioner unless this requirement is waived by the Employer.
(d) An Employee who is entitled to accumulated sick leave in terms of this sub clause iii(b) before utilising his
21 days sick leave in respect of the year in which he wished to avail himself of the sick leave, if he has not
already utilised such 21 days leave.
13. Salaries.–  The salaries of all employees who were in employment as at 1st January 2011 and continue to be in employment as
at the date of signing of this Agreement shall be revised as follows:
(i) A sum equivalent to 15% of  the salary of an employee as at December 2010 shall be added to the salary with effect from
1st January, 2011.
(ii) Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 850/- will be consolidated into the salary of the employee with effect from 1st January, 2011.
(iii) A sum equivalent to 5% of the salary of an employee as at December 2011 shall be added to the salary of an employee with
effect from 1st January 2012.
(iv) Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 850/- will be consolidated to the salary of an employee with effect from 1st January, 2012.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
11A
(v) A sum equivalent to 4% of the salary of an employee as at December 2012 shall be added to the  salary of an employee with
effect from 1st January, 2013.
(vi) Thereafter a sum of Rs. 850/- will be consolidated into the salary of the employees with effect from 1st January, 2013.
In addition, as a matter of goodwill, an ex gratia payment equivalent to the amount mentioned in (i) above X8 will be paid to all employees,
which will not attract any consquential benefits such as EPF, ETF, overtime, etc.
There will be no Cost of living payments either by way of NRCLG or consolidation of salaries during the pendency of this
Agreement. Provided however, the employer shall make payment in terms of Clauses (ii), (iv) and (vi) above in lieu of such
payments.
14. The salary ranges and increments applicable to the different categories of employees covered and bound by this Agreement will
be as follows:
Minor Staff - Rs. 14,000/- to Rs. 26,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 200/- going up to Rs. 400/-
Grade 1 - Rs. 14,250/- to Rs. 28,500/- Minimum increment of Rs. 300/- going up to Rs. 600/-
Grade 2 - Rs. 14,500/- to Rs. 30,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 350/- going up to Rs. 650/-
Higher Grade - Rs. 15,000/- to Rs. 32,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 425/- going up to Rs. 700/-
Special Grade - Rs. 15,500/- to Rs. 34,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 500/- going up to Rs. 800/-
15. Salaries for periods less than one month.– For the purpose of this Agreement salaries of any Employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) For one hour - the salary for a month divided by two hundred and forty (240);
(b) For one day - the salary for a month divided by thirty (30);
(c) For one half day (either morning or afternoon) - a day’s salary ascertained as above divided by two (2);
(d) For one week - a day’s salary ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7).
16. Provident Fund.–
(i) The Employer and Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident Fund
Act. No. 15 of 1958.
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’s Trust Fund Act No. 46 of 1980, where the employer and an Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
17. Bonus.–
(i) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes, Employer will continue to pay exgratia to Employees bonuses which will not
be less than the quantum of bonus payments paid to them in accordance with prevailing practice prior to the First Day of
January, Two Thousand and Eleven. If the Employer finds it necessary, in his discretion, to reduce the quantum of bonus
payments in respect of any year, the Branch Union in the establishment of the Employer concerned may canvass the
question of the reduction with the Employer. If the Branch Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union
may pursue the matter with the Federation. Thereupon, the Federation will consider the matter and advise the Employer in
such manner as the Federation deems fit in the circumstances. If the Union is not satisfied in regard to the quantum of bonus
payments finally decided by the Employer in the light of the advice given by the Federation, the Union will not pursue the
matter further by any form of trade union action or otherwise during the pendency of this Agreement.
(ii) Payment of bonus higher than the quantum of bonus payments in the past will be in the sole discretion of the Employer, and
the payment of such higher bonus shall not be subject to any dispute.
(iii) The provisions of sub clauses (i) and (ii) above will mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus schemes.
(iv) The Employer and the Union reserve the right to review the provisions of this clause in the event of profit sharing or
Employee participation in profits becoming compulsory by virtue of any law. Any dispute arising there from shall be dealt
with as provided in clause 26 (i) of Part 1 hereof.
18. Promotions.–
(i) The following shall be the principles which will guide the Employer on the question of promotion.
(a) Mere length of service shall not be the sole criterion for promotion and the Employer shall be entitled to take into
account other factors such as efficiency, educational qualifications and character. Where suitability is comparable,
seniority shall be given preference.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(b) An Employee in Grade I in the Clerical or Supervisory Staff will normally be promoted to Grade II after completing
an year’s service in Stage 7 unless his work is of a mechanical or routine nature not involving a degree of skill or
responsibility or unless his inefficiency has been established after due inquiry as provided in Clause 23 of Part I
hereof.
(c) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff from Grade II to the Higher Grade will depend on vacancies and
Employees who have shown the necessary capacity will be eligible for promotion to the Higher Grade.
(d) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff to the Special Grade will be from the Higher Grade and will depend on
merit.
(ii) The number of Employees in the Higher or Special Grade of the Clerical and Supervisory Staff of any establishment will
be determined having regard, inter alia to -
(a) the nature of the undertaking;
(b) the strength of the work force;
(c) the work involved in a post; and
(d) the merit of the Employees available for promotion.
(iii) Where an Employee is promoted at the normal incremental date from one grade to another, such Employee shall be placed
at a salary stage in the Higher Grade which will give such Employee a salary not less than that which he would have received
had he remained in the grade from which he is promoted and had been advanced one stage in that grade. But where an
Employee is promoted on a date other than the normal incremental date, such Employee shall be placed at a salary stage
inthe higher grade which will give him a salary not less than that which he would have received if he had remained in the grade
from which he is promoted. Provided however, that if an Employee is standing at the end of a grade when he is promoted
to the next grade, such Employee may be placed at any stage in the higher grade to which he is promoted which will give him
a higher salary than the maximum salary in the grade from which he is promoted.
19. Transfers.–
(i) Where it is a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality of
an establishment to another, such Employee will not be entitled to any additional remuneration if, in consequence of a
transfer from one locality to another, there is an increase in the number of hours of work.
(ii) Where it is not a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality
of an establishment to another, such Employee will be entitled to receive and the Employer shall be liable to pay additional
remuneration in order to compensate for any increase in the number of hours of work arising from a transfer from one locality
of an establishment to another. The amount of such additional remuneration, which will depend on the extent to which the
hours of work have been increased, shall be mutually agreed upon between the Empoyer and Employee or the Union on his
behalf. Provided however, that if the Employee is re-transferred to the locality in which he was previously employed and/
or the hours of work prevoiusly worked by him are restored to such Employee, the additional remuneration granted to him
shall be withdrawn with effect from the date of such re-transfer or restoration.
(iii) Where it is not a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality
of an establishment to another and the transfer of such an Employee will cause him substantial domestic disorganisation
such as may arise in consequence of a transfer from one station to another such transfer shall be effected of mutual consent
between the Employer and such Employee even if:
(a) such transfer will not involve a change in the number of hours of work, or
(b) he is offered additional remuneration in terms of sub-clause (ii) above.
(iv) Nothing in the preceding sub-clauses of this Clause shall prejudice the right of an Employee to make representations to the
Employer against any order of transfer. If the Employer requires an Employee to comply with an order of transfer not
withstanding such representations, the Employee shall comply with the order of transfer but without prejudice to the right
of an Employee to make representations to the Employer against any order of transfer. If the Employer requires an
Employee to comply with an order of transfer notwithstanding such representations, the Employee shall comply with the
order of transfer but without prejudice to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his but without
prejudice to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such transfer with the
Employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
13A
(v) If the Executive Committee of the Union considers that any order of transfer of an Employee by an Employer is calculated
to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union or its members or is grossly unfair or
seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union, the Union shall notify the Employer and the Federation thereof in
writing and may, if in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union the circumstances so warrant, instruct the
Employee to refrain from complying with the order of transfer pending settlement of the dispute as provided in this
Agreement. If the Union instructs the Employee to refrain from complying with the order of transfer as aforesaid, the
Union shall notify the Employer and the Federation thereof in writing and in that event the Employer shall be entitled to
suspend the Employee immediately without pay. Provided however, that if the Employer subsequently agrees or if an
Arbitrator holds that  the order of transfer was not justified the Employee shall be entitled to his salary for the period of
suspension. If on the other hand, an Arbitrator holds that the order of transfer was justified, the Employee shall comply
with the order of transfer and he shall not be entitled to his salary for the period of suspension. The refusal of an Employee
to comply with an order of transfer or instructions from the Union after the union notifying the Employer and the
Federation as aforementioned shall not be deemed to be an act of insubordination by the Employee and the employee shall
not be liable to disciplinary action by the Employer for such refusal.
20. Carrying out Employer’s Instructions as to Duties:–
(i) If an Employee considers that any duty which he is required to perform by the Employer does not fall within the scope of
his employment under the Employer, the Employee shall be entitled to bring such matter to the notice of the Employer. If
notwithstanding such notification the Employer reuqires the Emploee to carry out such instructions, then the Employee
shall be entitled to request the Employer to give him instructions in writing.
(ii) If the Employer gives the Employee such instructions in writing, the Employee shall carry out the same but without
prejudice to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such matter with the
Employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
(iii) If the Employer refuses to give such instructions in writing, the Employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry out such
instructions and in that event the Employer shall have no right of action against the Employee.
(iv) If the Employer gives such instructions in writing but the Employee fails to carry out the same, the Employer shall be
entitled to suspend the Employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary action against him without prejudice
to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary
action as may be taken against the Employee as provided in this Agreement.
21. Suspension:–
(i) An employee may, subject as hereinafter provided, be suspended without pay by the Employer:–
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where such charge or charges
relate to:
(i) fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like offence by the Employee in the course of his employment;
(ii) ab use, threat or gross insubordination by the Employee of or to a member of the executive or managerial staff
of the Employer;
(iii) a breach of peace or damage to property, or disturbance of the business of the Employer.
Provided however, that the Employer shall suspend an Employee under paragraph (iii) above only for so long as the Employee’s continu-
ance in employment will or is likely to be undesirable or to be prejudicial to the proper investigation of the charges or the Employer carrying
on his business;
(b) as a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days, after due inquiry;
(c) If an Employee refrains from complying with any order of transfer in terms of Clause 19 of Part 1 hereof or fails to
carry  out the Employer’s written instructions in terms of Clause 20 of Part 1 hereof.
(ii) At the time of suspension of within twenty four (24) hours thereof, the Employer shall provide the Employee with a written
order or suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(iii) Nothing in the preceding sub-clause shall prejudice the right of an Employees or a Branch Union or the Union on his behalf
to dispute an order of suspension thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
22. Probation.–
(i) Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months. Provided
however that if at the expiry of the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of
such Employee, the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) and in that event the Employer
shall indicate to the Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been further extended. During the
period of probation or extended probation, the Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee
without notice.
23. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then-
(i) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 21 (i) of Part 1 hereof or not, the Employee shall be
furnished with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than five (5) clear working days in which to give the
answer or explanation to the charges preferred.
(ii) Within five (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however, that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(iii) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension, forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all emoluments and entitlements due during the period of such
suspension.
(iv) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(v) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if an Employer fails to make an order, except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer, on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from
the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(vi) If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer, after such inquiry, makes order that
(a) The Employee shall not be dismissed, then the Employee shall resume Employment forthwith and shall, subject to
Clause 21 (i)(b) hereof, be paid all emoluments and entitlements due during the period of suspension irrespective of such
other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in the show
cause notice.
(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect as from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in
view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously
referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or
inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the Employee may remain suspended without pay.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
15A
(vii) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for the period of thirty (30) working days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of
suspension in excess of thirty (30) working days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs
(a) and to (c) of the preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(viii) In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of sub-clause (vi) hereof within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the  Employee, unless he is prevented
from so doing by reason  of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed
between the Federation and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for
such further time as may be agreed.
(ix) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (iv) and (v) hereof where the Employer
proposed to warn an Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however that if the Union
disputes the warning or the punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry
the Employer shall comply with such requet and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject
to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within fourteen (14) working days after receipt of the
Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
24. Retirement.– An Employee has the option of retiring at the age of fifty five (55) years or at any time thereafter and shall retire
on attaining the age of sixty (60) years. Provided however that if the Employer requires to retain the services of an Employee who has
attained the age of sixty (60)  years, the Employee shall be offered fresh employment on a temporary basis so long as the Employer requires
the services of such Employee.
25. Trade Union action:–
(i) The Union hereby undertakes in respect of all the terms and conditions of employment covered by this Agreement not to
seek to vary or alter any such terms or conditions other than by negotiation during the currency of this Agreement and
hereby expressly undertakes, subject to Clause 26(iv) (d) of Part I hereof, not to engage in a strike or other form of trade
union action in respect of a dispute but will have such dispute settled in accordance with the procedure set out in Clause
26 of Part I hereof.
(ii) In case the Union decides to call for a general stoppage of work by its members in establishment of the employer on any
matter not covered by this Agreement, the Union will give written notice to the employer in whose establishment the work
stoppage is to take place, and will give its reasons therefor. The Union will give at least one week’s notice to the employer
of the date of the stoppage, or even longer notice, between the date of the Union’s decision to call for a general stoppage of
work and the date fixed for the stoppage, in the circumstances in which such a stoppage may be decided upon. In such case,
the Union will also instruct its Branch Union to exempt an agreed number of members from the work stoppage, in order to
provide the employer on a written request made by the employer, with a skeleton staff, in order to maintain essential
services.
26. Disputes Procedure.– Save and except any difference arising out of bonus which shall be dealt with as provided in Clause 17
of Part I hereof, it is hereby agreed that the procedure to be followed for the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in sub-clause (i) or
(ii) hereof.
(i) ( a) Where a dispute is between an employee and the employer, the employee shall, in the first instance, raise the matter
through such employee’s Branch Union with the employer and both parties shall endeavour to effect an  amicable
settlement. Provided, however, that if the exigencies of the circumstances warrant the Union acting immediately in
accordance with the succeeding paragraph (b) it shall not be necessary for the employee. Brach Union to raise the
matter as herein provided before the Union acts under the succeeding paragraph (b).
(b) In the event of a dispute not being settled under paragraph (a) above, or in the case of a dispute between the branch
Union and the employer, the Union may, if it so desires, raise the matter with the Federation and thereupon all steps
shall be taken that may be reasonable by the Union and the Federation for an amicable settlement of the matter in
dispute utilising if desired, the good offices of the conciliation Division of the Department of Labour.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(c) In the event of a dispute not being resolved or settled under the preceding paragraphs (a) or (b), the parties shall agree
a statement of the matters in dispute and such matter shall be referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under section
3(1)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act for settlement by arbitration, or by mutual agreement decide on a reference to
a qualified mediator or body of mediators, if and when it may be feasible. Provided however that should the parties
fail to agree on a statement of the issue of the dispute for purposes of arbitration, each party shall furnish the
Commissioner of Labour with a statement setting out the issues in dispute and thereafter the Commissioner of
Labour shall set out the issues in dispute to be referred to the Arbitrator or Arbitrators.
(ii) ( a) The Union may notify the Federation in writing with a statement of the matter in dispute that such dispute should
be dealt with under the subclause. As soon as possible after such notification by the Union to the Federation, a
Special Disputes Committee of the Federation shall endeavour to settle the dispute. If no settlement is effected
within seven (7) days from the date of the Union notifying the Federation, the dispute shall, as soon as possible, be
referred to the Commissioner of Labour for settlement by arbitration as provided in subclause (i)(c) above, or if the
Union or the Employer so requests, the dispute shall be referred immediately to a Special Arbitrator for settlement
by arbitration.
(b) If a dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of an Employee by the Employer is referred to a Special Arbitrator
as aforesaid and he is unable to make an award within twenty one (21) days of the date of receipt of the reference,
the Special Arbitrator shall be competent, but not bound, either of his own motion or at the instance of the Union,
to make an interim award after duly considering all the relevant facts and circumstances for his failure to make an
award within twenty one (21) days of the date of reference, directing the Employer’s to pay the Employee a sum not
exceeding the equivalent of one half of the Employee’s normal remuneration for the first thirty (30) days from the
date of cessation of employment and for such period thereafter but not later than the date of the award on the
reference a sum not exceeding the equivalent of the Employee’s full remuneration. The parties shall be bound by and
comply with the terms of any such interim award.
(iii). Subject to subclause (iv) hereof, the procedure for the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in subclause (i) hereof.
(iv). The procedure for the settlement of a dispute in respect of the matters enumerated in the succeeding paragraphs (a), (b) or
(c) shall, subject to the succeeding paragraph (d), be as set out in subclause (ii) (a) hereof.
(a) A dispute in connection with the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement arising from an act of the
Employer, which in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated to threaten or undermine the
existence or the legitimate activities of the Union.
(b) A dispute not connected with the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement arising from an act of the
Employer which in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated to threaten or undermine the
existence of the legitimate activities of the Union or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the
interests of the Union or its members. Provided however that the disputes shall be referred to an Arbitrator or
Arbitrators under the Industrial Disputes Act or to a Special Arbitrator as the case may be, if no settlement is
effected within seven (7) days from the date of the Union notifying the Federation in terms of sub-clause (ii)(a)
hereof, only if the Union so desire.
(c) A dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of an Employee by the Employer on disciplinary grounds, which
dismissal or discharge is in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union vindictive or in bad faith and is
calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union. Provided however that the
dispute shall be referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under the Industrial Disputes Act or to a Special Arbitrator
as the case may be, if no settlement is effected within seven (7) days from the date of the Union notifying the
Federation in terms of sub-clause (ii) (a) hereof, only if the Union so desires.
(d) If the Union does not, however, desire to refer a dispute for settlement by arbitration under the provisions of the
preceding paragraphs (b) or (c), the Union reserves to itself the right to engage in or authorize a strike or other form
of Trade Union action and the Employer reserves the right to take such steps as it may deem fit in the circumstances.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
17A
(v) ( a) In respect of a dispute arising between the parties hereto where arbitration is provided for under this Agreement, it
is agreed that the parties to the dispute shall determine at the date thereof whether the dispute shall be settled by
arbitration by one Arbitrator or three Arbitrators. Provided however that disputes arising over dismissals shall
normally be referred to one Arbitrator and disputes arising over the proper interpretation or implementation of this
Agreement if involving matters of principle or matters of general importance shall normally, if possible, be referred
to a panel of not less than three Arbitrators.
(b) For the purposes of this Agreement, an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall be jointly selected by the parties. If the
parties fail to agree on an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator, he shall be selected by the Commissioner of Labour.
(c) Where a dispute over a dismissal has been referred for settlement by arbitration under the provisions of this
Agreement and the award contains a finding that the dismissal of the Employee by the Employer was not justified,
then it is hereby agreed between the parties that normally in such a case the Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall
order that the Employee shall be reinstated in his employment with the Employer and it is hereby further agreed that
in any such arbitration the Arbitrator or the Special Arbitrator shall take note of this paragraph in making any such
award.
(d) A Special Arbitrator shall be competent, but not bound, to make order in his award as to the manner in which the
costs of the arbitration excluding the legal expenses of either party shall be borne by the parties.
(e) An award of an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator made as herein provided shall be final and binding on the parties
hereto.
(f) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute by arbitration as provided for in this clause, such request for
arbitration shall be communicated to the Federation within six months calculated from the date on which
negotiations fail.
(ii) Either party shall be entitled at any stage to inform the other that negotiations have failed.
(iii) The Employer shall not be under any obligation to refer to arbitration any dispute where the request for
arbitration is not made within the period of six months specified in this sub-clause.
(g) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute relating to the termination of the services of an employee by
arbitration as provided for in this clause, such termination should have been disputed by the Employee with the
Employer, or by the Branch Union with the Employer, or by the Union with the Employer, or by the Union
with the Employer within three (3) months of the date of termination
(ii) The Employer shall not be under any obligation to refer to arbitration a dispute relating to the termination of the
services of an Employee where it has not been disputed as aforementioned within the period of three
(3) months from the date of termination of services.
(iii) The date of termination for the purposes of this sub-clause shall be the date on which the written communica-
tion is sent to the Employee terminating his services and not the date on which the termination of services takes
effect under Clause 23(vi)(b) hereof.
Part II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Domestic Inquiries.– If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 23 of Part I hereof is a
member of the Union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notic e–
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as “ an
observer”) to be present as an observer without loss of salary for absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an observer to be present at the enquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry Submit to the Employer the name of such observer.
2A – G18406

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(c) An observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsorever shall not vitiate such
inquiry nor the proceedings thereto, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
2. Union Meetings:–
(i) The following provisions shall apply to meetings of Branch Unions:
(a) In respect of each meeting which a Branch Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for
permission shall be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decided to grant permission the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the
undernoted conditions:–
(i) that not person other than an employee of the Company shall be present at a meeting of the Branch Union;
(ii) on oc casions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Branch Union office bearers of the Union may with
the previous approval of the Employer attend;
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Branch Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold
a meeting of the Branch Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or
in connection with a meeting of the Branch Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the
Employer’s premises and the Union shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any
such damage.
(ii) The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the General Council of the Union:–
( a) Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally  grant permission to a member of the General council of
the Union in order to attend a meetings of the General Council, to leave office not earlier than 3 o’clock in the
afternoon on not more than one occasion in a month without loss of salary for such absence if an application for
permission to attend is made at least forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting of the
General Council.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above the Union shall forthwith furnish the Employer in whose service there are
members of the General Council of the Union with a list of such numbers and keep the Employer informed of all
changes therein which may be made from time to time.
(iii). The provisions of the preceding sub-clauses (i) and (ii) shall not be in derogation of any existing concessions or facilities
granted by the Employer to the Branch Union regarding Union meetings.
3. Duty Leave: –
(i) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave:– Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant
permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant
permission for not less than two office bearers of the Branch Union–

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
19A
(a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in Connection with a dispute between the Branch Union and the Employer, or.
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of salary for such absence.
(ii). The Employer will in his discretion grant leave to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or seminar or conference
either in Sri Lanka or abroad on no pay leave unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual leave, customary or
statutory holidays which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
4. Check Off:
(i) ( a) In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer bound by this Agreement and in whose establishment the
membership of the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the persons employed by him in the categories
covered and bound by this Agreement.
(b) If, for the purpose of this sub-clause, it becomes necessary to decide the question whether in the establishment of
the Employer bound by this Agreement the membership of the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the
persons employed by him in the categories covered by this Agreement, the same  shall be determined by a referen-
dum which shall be held by Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the parties
hereto and the Employer.
(ii). The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the pay due to such Employee the current monthly
Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount
so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(iii). Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his pay shall sign a statement to the effect in the form set
out in Form No. 1 in the fourth Schedule here to and hereinafter referred to as “an authorization”.
(iv). Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to checkoff at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 in the Fourth Schedule hereto and hereinafter referred to as “a revocation”.
(v). No variation in the monthly deductions by way of check-off shall be made by the Employer except by mutual agreement
with the Union and Employee concerned. In the event of any variation being agreed, each Employee will need to signify his
agreement to the revised amount being deducted by way of check-off by signing a fresh authorizations to that effect in the
form set out in Form No. 3 in the Fourth Schedule hereto.
(vi). Entrance or readmission fees or special levies authorized by the Union’s constitution or contributions to the Union’s
political fund shall not be deducted by way of check-off.
(vii) ( a) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorization shall commence from the pay due immediately after the date
of receipt of such authorizations and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(b) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorizations shall cease from the date of receipt of revocation cancelling
such authorization. Provided however–
that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the union or the Employee concerned for failure
to comply with paragraphs (a) or (b) above, that in his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make
deductions by way of check-off in any month if the deduction by way of check-off will together with all other
deductions from an Employee’s pay in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(viii) ( a) The Employer shall once each month within fifteen (15) days after the regular pay day remit to the Treasurer of the
Union the total sums deducted by way of check-off by a cheque drawn payable to “Food Beverages and Tobacco
Industries Employees Union” and crossed Account Payee.
(b) The cheque shall be sent, at the Union’s risk, by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to the “The Treasurer, Food
Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union, No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5”.
(c) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(d) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than
the actual deductions made.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(ix) The Employer may suspend the operation of this clause as hereinafter provided by notice in writing to the Union.–
(a) If the Union or a Branch Union resorts to a strike or any other form of trade union action in breach of the terms or
provisions of Part I of this Agreement the Employer may suspend the operation of this clause for such time as may
be decided by the Employer but not exceeding the duration of such strike or other form of trade union action. Before
such a decision is made the Employer and the Union shall endeavour to effect an amicable settlement.
(b) If the Union fails to maintain itself as a properly registered Trade Union under the Trade Unions Ordinance the
Employer may decide to suspend the operation of this caluse for such time as may be decided by the Employer.
(c) If a decision is made by the Employer under paragraphs (a) or (b) above, the Employer shall be absolved of
complying with the provisions of this clause in accordance with the tenor of such decision.
PART III
CONTAINING  DEFINITIONS  OF  CERTAIN  WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them.–
Words Meaning
Industrial Disputes Act - The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950.
The Act - The Shop and Office Employees (Regulations of Employment and Remunera-
tion) Act, No. 19 of 1954.
The Federation - The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
The Union - The Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union.
Branch Union - The Branch Union of the Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees
Union in the establishment of the Employer.
Employer (for convenience
sometimes referred to as “he”
its grammatical variations) - The Employer bound by the Agreement.
Employee (for convenience
sometimes referred to as “he”
or its grammatical variations) - An Employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Week - The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeed-
ing Saturday night.
Weekly full holiday in respect
of any week - Shall have the meaning as “weekly holiday” under the Shop and Office Employ-
ees Act.
Weekly half holiday in respect
of any week - Shall have the same meaning as “weekly half holiday” in the Shop and Office
Employees’ Act.
Two such weekly holidays - Two full holidays or four half holidays or any combination of full or half holidays
which does not exceed two full holidays.
Salary - The monthly salary according to the scales of consolidated salaries.
Normal incremental date - The date on which the employee would normally receive an increment.
Dispute - A dispute or difference between the Employer and an Employee or between the
Branch Union and the Employer or between the Union and the Employer on any
matter covered by this Agreement or affecting the Employees covered by this
Agreement in relation to their employment under the Employer covered by this
Agreement.
Check-off - The act of the Employer deducting, at the request of the Union, subscriptions
payable to the Union by an Employee from the latter’s pay with his concurrence.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
21A
Form No. 1
Name of Employer:..................................
AUTHORISATION
In pursuance of the Agreement entered into between Finlays Colombo PLC and Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union
of which I am a member, please deduct from my pay each month the sum of Rupees.................. (Rs. .....) and remit the same to the said Union
on my behalf in respect of my current monthly memebership dues. The first payment should please be made from my next pay following
the date hereof.
........................... .................................
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
..............................................................................
(Full Name of Employee in Block Capitals)
……………………………………………………… (Address of Employee)
Received On: ………………………………………
                            (To be filled by Employer)
Form No. 2
Name of Employer:..................................
REVOCA TION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my pay any further memebership dues in favour of The
Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union with effect from the next pay due to me immediately following the date hereof.
........................... .................................
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………………………………… (Full Name of Employee)
……………………………………………………… (Address of Employee)
Received On: ………………………………………
                            (To be filled by Employer)
Form No. 3
Name of Employer:..................................
AMENDMENT OF AUTHORISA TION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please deduct from my next pay following the date hereof Rupees .......... .............
(Rs. ............) instead of Rupees .......................... (Rs. ............) as heretofore and remit the same to Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries
Employees Union on my behalf in respect of my current monthly membership dues.
 ........................... .................................
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………………………………… (Full Name of Employee)
……………………………………………………… (Address of Employee)
Received On: ………………………………………
                            (To be filled by Employer)

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES AFORESAID HA VE HERUNTO SET THEIR HANDS AT COLOMBO ON THIS 26TH
DAY OF MAY TWO THOUSAND AND ELEVEN.
........................................ ..........................................
E. R. C. MORAES D. W. SUBASINGHE
Executive Director General Secretary
Finlays Colombo PLC. Food Beverages and Tobacco
Indutries Employees Union.
Witnesses:
1. 1.
(Name) (Name)
(Designation) (Designation)
2. 2.
(Name) (Name)
(Designation) (Designation)
11 – 155


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
23A
My No.: CI/1802.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Chas P Hayley & Company (Private) Limited, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one
part and the United Tea, Rubber & Local Produce Workers’ Union, 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 04th day
of November, 2011  is  hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
08th October, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 41 of 2011
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this Fourth day of November Two Thousand and Eleven to take effect pursuant to the
Industrial Disputes Act between
CHAS P HAYLEY & COMPANY (PRIV ATE) LIMITED,  having its registered office at 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter
referred to as the “Employer”) of the one part
AND
THE UNITED TEA, RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, a registered Trade Union having its office at 513-2/1,
Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”) of the second part
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title.–This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Chas P. Hayley & Company (Private) Limited manual workers,
Collective Agreement of  2011.
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MA TTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED
THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the  Employer, the Union and the members of the Union who
are employed and who are working at Thurburn Stores, 205, Bandaranaike Place, Galle by the Employer in a manual or labouring capacity
on monthly contracts of employment and for whom provision has been made in the wage scales set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall  be effective as from the 01st day of January, Two Thousand and Eleven
and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in writing
to the other subject to the following provisos:
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before 31st of December, 2013 and  no notice given before
that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lnakan rupee under any provision of Law  a  party shall be at liberty
to abrogate this agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this  Agreement and an Employee
coverd and bound by this Agreement  whether such contract of service be written or oral which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come in to being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
4. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the  Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee
, the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicat e to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended,  During the period of probation or extended probation the
Employer shall have the right to terminate the Services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for
unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been Confirmed by the Employer the
Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation
or extended probation , as the case may be, ended.
5. Attendance.–
1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on everyday (other
than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
2. If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in  his own occupation he shall be
deemed to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site
of the Employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
6. Hours of Work.– The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be eight (8) and a period of six  (6) hours on a short
working day exclusive of intervals for meals/rest whether on shift or otherwise.
7. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
8. Overtime.–
1. If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (11/
2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof.
9. Weekly Holiday and Saturdays.–
1. In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday
provided however, that if an Employee has not worked for a period  of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s
wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof.
2. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include–
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause 11 hereof;
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
3. The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and
the Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1)
then and in such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage
computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed
to that Employee within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two
(2) such weekly holidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee–
(a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as
aforesaid, pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in lieu
of such alternate holiday, or.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
25A
(b) in case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid
in respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct
a day’s wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(a) one and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause
16(a) hereof for the number of hours worked during the first (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal);
and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer fo r
periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
10. Annual Holidays.– Annual Holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Boards.
11. Public Holidays.–
(1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages Boards. Provided
however, that an Employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance with the decision of the aforesaid Wages
Board.
(2) If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a weekly holiday, a day
either in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be
granted to the Employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the Provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding the Saturday shall be six (6) hours and no
interval for a meal shall be granted.
12. Casual  Leave.–
(1) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been  continuously in employment that Employee
shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health if that Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully  utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the
period or an aggregate  of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall
be liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days Casual Leave shall be taken at any
time save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any Employee shall not be entitled to take Casual
Leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of
any Employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to Casual Leave for that
year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two month’s service.
(2) Casual Leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to
the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
Casual Leave.
13. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days provided that–
(a) his illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer) and
(b) the Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 4 hereof. Provided however, that an Employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) month’s probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) month’s probation.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
14. Monthly Consolidated Wages in Lieu of CCPI Consolidation.–
(1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 15 hereof and the Employer’s right to make deductions from wages in terms of the
practices prevailing at the date of this Agreement and also subject to the existing practices in relation to the performance by
Employees of work in other grades (whether in higher or lower grades), as from the First day of January Two Thousand and
Eleven ,  each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly
consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule I hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedule 1 hereto include all Statutory Allowances as at the date of this
Agreement.
(3) The new incremental rates shall be as set out in the relevant scales in Schedule I hereto. This Agreement shall not have the
effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this Agreement will be revised as follows.
A sum of Rs. 1,000 would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of November
Two thousand and Ten.
A sum of Rs. 750 would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of November
Two thousand and Eleven.
A sum of Rs. 750 would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of November
Two thousand and Twelve.
A sum of Rs. 750 would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of November
Two thousand and Thirteen.
(5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka.–
(a)  Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging
the Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written
law and in terms of such written law;
(b) recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of
whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
15. Conversion to scales of Monthly Consolidated wages.–
(a)  For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall receive with effect from the the First day of January
Two Thousand and Eleven on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule I hereto the following
provisions subject to the provisions of Clause 14 above shall apply.
(i) All Employees shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to 17% of their wages as at 31 December,
2010.
(ii) Each Employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point on the wage scale in Schedule I without
change in grade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the
same grade.
(b) The wage increase referred to at Clause 15(a) (i) hereof is in consideration of the Agreement reached between the Union and
the employer for higher output norms as per Schedule II atttached hereto.
16. Wages for Periods less than one Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) For one hour –       the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) For one day –        the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) For one half day –  a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) For one week –       a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
27A
17. Annual Lum Sum Payment in Lieu of NRCOLG .–
(1) A lump sum payment on an ex-gratia basis would be made on the following basis
(i) A sum of Rs. 20,000/- payable in June 2011 for the period from 01st  November, 2009 to 31st October, 2010
(ii) A sum of Rs. 20,000/- payable in November 2011 for the period from 01st  November, 2010 to 31st October, 2011
(iii) A sum of Rs. 20,000/- payable in November 2012 for the period from 01st  November, 2011 to 31st October, 2012
(iv) A sum of Rs. 20,000/- payable in November 2013 for the period from 01st  November, 2012 to 31st October, 2013
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these ex-gratia payments.
18. Provident Fund.–
(1) The Emploer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident Fund
Act, No. 15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’s Provident
Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12 of
1983.
20. Bonus.–
(1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment in the past
and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each
of his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of the Agreement No. 20 of 1982. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to
an amount less than the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 the Union may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is
not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon.
If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred to a committee of
three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance with the
provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement in the manner hereinafter setforth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour will
constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) Senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10) years’ post
qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federation. Thereupon
the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee so constituted
a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in settling the
dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of the
bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and the
Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Employer, the
Union and the Federation and the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union
action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of
Agreement No. 20 of 1982.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) the payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of Agreement No. 20 of 1982 shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by the
Union and / or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka will
nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
21. Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in Schedule One hereto
shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary
action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –
(a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) susupended, the increment is suspended pending a decision a defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
accrue to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
22. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
23. Suspension:–
(1). An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer:
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the  property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
(2). At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifiying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an inquiry
into the charge or charges in terms of clause 24 herof.
24. Disciplinary Action:- Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then–
(1). Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under caluse 23 hereof or not, the Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
29A
(2). Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
(3). If the Emplyer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee the Emplyee shall, if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(4). If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working days
from the date  of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(5). After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(6). If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that:–.
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 23(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension
irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as
to the charges in the show cause notice;
(b) the employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect  from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee,  the Employer
is unable to make a final order as its is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had
been previously referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended
without pay.
(7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer  fails to make order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own  seeking within thirty (30)
working days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such  suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer  makes an order under paragraphs  (a) to (c) of the
preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer  shall make an order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of  sub-clause 6 within ninety (90)  days of the date of  suspension  of the Employee unless he is  prevented from so
doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further
time as may be agreed.
(9) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry  as referred to in sub-clauses  4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the  warning or punishment imposed in the Employee by the Employer  and requests the holding of  an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request  and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to  the exception that the fact that the inquiry  had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
25. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55)  years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be Employed by the
Employer  and there shall be no obligation  on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such  retirement. Provided  however, that
an Employee who has retired may, in the discretion of the Employer,  be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis  on such terms
as may be mutually agreed.
26. Termination of services.–
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the  Employer except for work usually performed
by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof  or unless otherwise expressly
stipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable
from month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given
by either party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged  for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
27. Union Recognition .– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members who are
employed in any workplace of the Employer bound by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle
such as matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the follo wing
provisions shall apply.
(1) When the Union is representative of not less that forty per cent (40%) of the  employees whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the employer of such employees will recognize the Union  for the purpose of general claims and matters
and negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty percent
(40%) of such employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and
negotiated with the Union competent to make general demands  by virtue of the requisite  membership and not separately
with each such Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
28. Disputes procedure.–
(1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of such members and give
the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If in the Union’s opinion  the Employer’s  reply
is unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have  been abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour
to  intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conference and/or discussions with a
view  to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until the
Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 30 hereof  all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties
hereto shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
29. How anomalies in  the course of implementing this agreement shall  be dealt with .– Any anomaly  arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by  negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled
by negotiation, it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
31A
30. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance
in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or  other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any  dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such dispute
has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling  body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide
or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and/or its members or is grossly unfair
or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/or its members. Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice in writing shall be
given by the Union to the Employer, the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of any intended
strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever
name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union
and/or its members is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/or its members.
31. Variation of terms and conditions of employment and benefits.–
(1) The Union and the Employees jointly and Severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this
Agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently
applicable to any of the Employees   covered and bound by this Agreement  as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement,
or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or
any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the Employees other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1.Breaches of Collective Agreement.:–  If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a breach of  any
of the terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries..:– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 24 is a member of the Union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice –
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires and ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held
pursuant to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement
of the inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall
not be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,
nor the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings:– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union.–
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union  desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b). If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the
undernoted conditions.
(1) that no person other than an employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) on occasions such as the Annul general meeting of the Union, office bearers of the Parent Union may, with the previous
approval of the Employer, attend;

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c). It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the Union
is granted are duly complied with.
(d). It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in conne ction
with a meeting of the the Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the Employer’s premises and the Union shall
indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave –
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if, in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the
Union –
(a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, arbitrators or Labour Tribunals – without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
5. Check-off.–
(1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union represents no less
than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set
forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 referred to as an ‘Authorization’.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in From No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however –
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clauses 5 or 6;
(b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which
the deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law;
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
33A
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union’s dues actually deducted.
FORM No. 1
Name of Employer: CHAS P HAYLEY AND COMPANY (PRIV ATE) LIMITED
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the CHAS  P  HAYLEY  AND  COMPANY  (PRIV ATE)  LIMITED  COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT  2011 and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible
as a member of the UNITED  TEA  RUBBER  AND  LOCAL  PRODUCE  WORKERS’  UNION, please deduct from my wages each month
a sum of Rupees........... (Rs.) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my
behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages due immediately following the date hereof.
…………………… …………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
…………………… …………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ……………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM No. 2
Name of Employer: CHAS  P  HAYLEY  AND  COMPANY  (PRIV ATE)  LIMITED
REVOCA TION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
UNITED  TEA  RUBBER  AND  LOCAL  PRODUCE  WORKERS’  UNION with effect from the wages next due to me immediately
following the date hereof.
…………………… …………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
…………………… …………………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ……………
(To be filled by the Employer)
3A – G18406

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory (Thurburn Stores, 205, Bandaranaike Place,
Galle).
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscrip-
tions payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
(For convenience sometimes
referred to as ‘he’ or its
grammatical variations)
Employer Chas P Hayley and Company (Private) Limited.
Federation Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act. No. 43 of 1950.
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive and increment.
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is
employed in.
Union United Tea Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union.
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in Schedule 1
hereto.
W eek The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the
succeeding Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
35A


<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
37A
4A – G18406

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
39A


<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
41A


<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
43A


<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
45A


<!-- page 46 -->

46A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
47A


<!-- page 48 -->

48A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
49A


<!-- page 50 -->

50A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013


<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
51A


<!-- page 52 -->

52A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'10'21
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.10.2013
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
11 – 156