

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1915$19 - 2015 uehs ui 20 jeks nodod - 2015'05'20
No.1915/19  -WEDNESDAY   MAY   20,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Draft of the Early Childhood Development Charter No........  of 2015 of the Provincial Council of the Central Province
I, Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Manpower, Education, Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Transport, Lands, Cooperative Development, Trade, Commerce, Food
Supplies and Distributional Affairs and Investment Coordination of the Central Province, announce that the Draft of the
Early Childhood Development Charter of the Central Provincial Council will be produced to the Provincial Council of the
Central Province at the end of two weeks from the date of publishing of this Gazette. Any facts or amendments to the
provisions of this Charter can be submitted to the Secretary, Chief and Education Ministry within this period.
S
ARATH EKANAYAKE,
Chief Minister and Minister in charge of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Local Government and Provincial Administration, Manpower, Education,
Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Transport, Lands, Cooperative Development,
Trade, Commerce, Food Supplies and Distributional Affairs and Investment
Coordination of the Central Province.
13th May 2015,
at the Chief Minister's Office,
Central Provincial Council.
EARLY   CHILDHOOD   DEVELOPMENT   CHARTER   No..................  OF 2015 OF  CENTRAL
PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
A Charter to repeal the sub clause 12(2)(xiii) of Education Charter No. 03 of 1990 of the Central
Province to and make provisions to establish an Early Childhood Development Unit ; to register,
monitor, control and guide Early Childhood Care and Development Centres ; and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
2A
1. This Charter, to be known as Early Childhood Development Charter of Central Provincial
Council, will take effect on the day it is approved by the Governor of the Central Province.
2. This Charter will rescind the sub clause 12(2)(xiii) of Education Charter No. 03 of 1990 and the
provisions in this Charter will replace the above.
PART I
ESTABLISHING  EARLY CHILDHOOD  DEVELOPMENT UNIT
3. The period between a child's birth to the day he/she enters formal school education is
considered the early childhood
4. An Early Childhood Development Unit (hereafter referred to as ‘Unit’) will be established
within the Central Province under the Central Provincial Chief Ministry to implement the
objectives specifically stated in this Charter.
5. A person shall be appointed as the director (hereinafter referred to as ‘Director’), who shall be
the head of the unit, by the Provincial Governor on the recommendation of the Provincial
Chief Minister. The Director should be an officer of an all-island service who is serving in the
Central Provincial Council.
6. (1) It is the responsibility of the Director to achieve the objectives of this Charter. He shall
act under the supervision and control of the board of management.
(2) The Director can retain the officer for a period of 03 years from the date of appointment
unless his service is terminated due to death, resignation, removal from office or leaving
of office.
(3) Unless removed from officer as stated in sub clause (2), a person can be eligible to be
re-appointed to the post.
(4) If the position of the Director becomes vacant a new Director should be appointed and
until the position is filled the Secretary of the Chief Ministry or an officer nominated by
him can be appointed to carry out the duties of Director post.
7. The staff needed to achieve the objectives of the Unit can be appointed from the Provincial
Public Service.
8. Objectives of the Unit shall be as follows :
(1) To improve the early childhood education in the Province.
(2) To register, manage and supervise Early Childhood Development Centres (hereinafter
referred to as ‘Centres’)
(3)  To create an environment that promotes the overall development of children in Early
Childhood including  physical and mental development.
(4) To protect the rights of the children in Early Childhood and to provide proper protection.
(5) To take other steps towards the development of Early Childhood
Short title and date
of operation
Early Childhood
Establishment of
Early Childhood
Development Unit
of Central Province
Appointment of a
Director
Responsibilities and
control of Director
Term of office of
the Director
Reappointing for
the post of Director
Director position
becoming vacant
Appointing staff for
the Unit
Objectives of the
Unit.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
9. The duties and authority of the Unit are as follows : -
(1) To register, monitor and regulate all institutes and organisations working towards
Early Childhood Development
(2) To provide guidance and aids for improving the Early Childhood Development activities.
(3) To setforth the minimum qualifications for the instructors of Centres.
(4) Training the instructors of Centres.
(5) Carrying out training institutes to train and develop instructors of centres and issue
certificates based on grading of professional qualifications.
(6) To grade the institutions involved in Early Childhood Care and Development by
evaluating their staff and the facilities available.
(7) To formulate minimum standards for administration  and management of institutions
involved in Early Childhood Care and Development.
(8) To educate the public on the importance of Early Childhood Development.
(9) To temporarily halt or stop any Centres in the Central Province which do not conform
to the provisions of this Charter.
(10) To charge a fee for a service offered by that Unit.
(11) To introduce books, documents and forms to be maintained by the Centres and to
promote their usage.
(12) To enter into agreements with external parties to implement activities relating to Early
Childhood Care and Development.
(13) To implement suitable programmes for special children, their parents and the community.
(14) To enter the Centres and to inspect whether they are being run according to proper
standards.
(15) Other duties and authority that might be needed for the Early Childhood Development
in the Central Province.
PART II
ESTABLISHING MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES
10. There shall be established a Managment Committee and an Advisory Committee (hereafter
referred to as  Committees) to accomplish the tasks stated in this Charter.
11. There shall be appointed a committee by the Provincial Chief Secretary called Management
Committee consisting of 11 members for managing and monitoring the tasks of the Unit.
12. The management committee shall consist of following members ;
Duties and authority
of the Unit
Management and
Advisory
Committees
Management
Committee
Compsition of the
Managment
Committee

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
4A
(1) Secretary of the Provincial Chief Ministry ;
(2) Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Education ;
(3) Provincial Director of Education ;
(4) Provincial Commissioner of Local Government ;
(5) Provincial Commissioner of probation and child care Services ;
(6) Provincial Director of Health Services ;
(7) Deputy Inspector General or his nominee ;
(8) Director of plantation human development fund or a person nominated by him ;
(9) Director of Early Childhood Development Unit ;
(10) Two members from the field of Early Childhood Development nominated by the Chief
Minister
13. The Secretary of the Chief Ministry shall be the Chairman of the management committee
ex-officio, and the Director of the Unit shall be the Secretary of the management committee.
14. The management committee shall perform following duties and exercise following authorities.
(1) Preparation of policies pertaining to this Charter and presenting them to the Minister
for approval.
(2) Providing instructions on making and implementing regulations and circulars required
to implement the functions and policies mentioned in this Charter.
(3) Providing instructions and approval for the governmental and non-governmental parties
engaged in early childhood development to operate within the province.
(4) Issuing instructions required by the unit to implement the provisions of the Charter.
(5) Providing other instructions and guidance required to manage and monitor the functions
of the unit.
15. The quorum for a management committee meeting is 5 and decisions should be made with the
agreement of the majority participated at the meeting. When the agreements of the members
are equal then the Chairman of the committee should be given a decisive vote.
16. An advisory committee of 15 members should be appointed to provide instructions and
guidance required to carry on the duties of the management committee.
17. (1) Advisory committee shall include 12 ex-officio members and 3 non-members of the
management committee appointed by the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister shall appoint
the members of the advisory committee.
(2) The ex-officio members of the advisory committee are as follows :
Chairman and
Secretary of
Management
Committee
Duties and authority
of Management
Committee
Decisions of
Management
Committee
Advisory
Committee
Composition of the
Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
i. Chief Secretary Central Province ;
ii. Secretary of the Provincial Chief Ministry ;
iii. Secretary of the Provincial Education Ministry ;
iv. Secretary of the Provincial Health Ministry ;
v. One of the District Secretaries of the Central Province ;
vi. Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) ;
vii. Provincial Deputy Inspector General of Police ;
viii. Provincial Education Director ;
ix. Director of National Child Secretariat or his nominee ;
x . A representative of the academic staff appointed by the vice-chancellor of the
University of Peradeniya ;
xi. Director of Plantation Human Development Trust or his nominee ;
xii. Director in charge of primary education, Department of Education, Central
Province.
(3) Members of the advisory committee appointed by the Chief Minister are as follows ;
i. A representative with a sound knowledge on early childhood development ;
ii. A representative engaged in early childhood development affairs in Central
Province ;
iii. A representative of a non-governmental or a foreign donor organisation actively
involved in early childhood development affairs in Central Province.
18. Provincial Chief Secretary shall be the Chairman and Secretary of the Chief Ministry shall be
the Secretary of the Advisory Committee.
19. Official term of the Advisory Committee is three (03) years.
20. The Advisory Committee shall prepare procedures related to the operation of Advisory
Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Charter.
21. The role of the Advisory Committee is to provide advisory services to the Management
Committee in order to achieve the aims and objectives of this Charter.
22. A nominated member of a committee should hold the membership for a period of three (03)
years unless he dies, resigns, is removed from office or leave the office prematurely.
23. A member who misses three consecutive meetings without a valid reason and without prior
notice is considered to have left the membership, and a suitable successor should be appointed
by the Chief Minister after being notified by the Secretary of the committee.
Chairman and
Secretary of
Advisory Committe
Official term of the
Advisory Committee
Role and functions of
the Advisory
Committee
Operation of the
Advisory Committee
Membership period
of a Committe
Loss of membership
of Committees
4—PG 2468

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
6A
24. A nominated member of a committee can be removed from the membership at any time by a
written notice of the Chief Minister.
25. A nominated member of a committee can send a written notice to the Chief Minister stating
his willingness to resign from membership, and the resignation will take effect once it is
accepted by the Chief Minister.
26. Where a member of the committee dies, resigns or is removed from office, the Chief Minister
shall, having regard to the provisions of Section 12 and 17, appoint another member in his
place, A member appointed such hold office for the unexpired part of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
27. A member appointed once can be reappointed
28. A committee should assemble at least once in three months.
29. A person becomes ineligible to be appointed to or continue as a member of a committee if ;
(1) he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or
(2) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country found or declared to  be
of unsound mind or bankrupt ; or
(3) he is serving or has served as sentence of imprisonment  imposed by any court in Sri
Lanka or any other country ; or
(4) the Chief Minister decides the person's financial or other interests are likely to affect
prejudically his discharge of duties as a member of the committee.
30. Any action, decision or legal activity taken by a committee will not become void due to any
vacancy of a committee or a shortcoming in appointing a member to a committee.
31. The committee members may be paid remunerations stipulated by Chief Minister under the
approval of the Governor.
PART III
EARLY  CHILDHOOD  CARE AND  DEVELOPMENT  FUND
32. (1) There shall be a fund for the Early Childhood Development Unit called Early Childhood
Care and Development Fund. Following funds should be credited to the Early Childhood
Care and Development Fund.
(a) money provided for the Unit by the Provincial Council from time to time.
(b) money received by Government and Non-Governmental Organisations.
(c) Money collected or charged by the Unit from its activities.
(d) Other aids and donations.
(2) Money required for the activities of the Unit should be utilized as decided by the Board
of Management.
Removal from
membership of a
Committee
Resignation from
membership of a
Committee
Member positions
becoming vacant
Reappointing for
membership
Committee
meetings
Disqualifications for
membership
Nullifying of an
action of the
committee
Payment of
remuneration for
members of a
committee
Early Childhood
Development Fund

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
(3) An Annual Financial Statement shall be prepared for each financial year including
income, expenditure and all other transactions.
33. The financial year for the unit shall be from January 1st to December 31st.
34. The Auditor General shall audit the Provincial Unit each year.
PART IV
REGISTRATION OF CENTRES
35. Once this Charter is, in effect, any registration of any Centre within the Central Province that
is conducted in whatever manner or under whatever organisation becomes null and void and
such Centres should apply for registration under the Unit.
36. (1) One this Charter is, in effect any Centre within the Central Province should obtain
Certificate of Registration from the Unit.
(2) The proprietor, manager or the administrator of each Centre situated within the province
must apply to the Director for the registration of the Centre within three months from
the date this Charter takes effect.
(3) When any proprietor, manager or the administrator who failed to apply under Sub
clause (2) request with just and apparently fair reasons, the Director can register the
Centre concerned charging a specific fee.
37. Any Centre commencing after the date this Charter takes effect must register by applying to
the Director prior to the commencement.
38. Any governmental, private or non-governmental organisation operating in the Province
must register under the Unit for conducting courses or training programmes related to Early
Childhood Care and Development.
39. (1) The applicant shall pay the registration fee stipulated by the Director to register a
Centre.
(2) The expected conditions, registration fee and other provisions are to be stipulated by
the Minister through regulations.
(3) The Unit has the authority to charge an additional fee/impose a fine for extending the
period of registration and for being late to register.
40. (1) When an application has been forwarded for the registration of a Centre, the Director
shall issue a certificate of registration if he is satisfied that the Centre has fulfilled the
requirements for registrations. If he decides that the Centre has failed to fulfill the
requirements, the application can be rejected with reasons indicated.
(2) (a) When a Centre has not fulfilled the requirements for registration, a Temporary
Certified of Registration can be issued with a condition that those requirements
should be fulfilled within a period of three (03) years.
(b) The director has the power to cancel the temporary certificate of registration if he
finds that the requirements have not been fulfilled within the period of three (03)
years.
Financial year of
the fund
Auditing of accounts
of fund
Registration of
Centres
Registration of
existing Centres
Registration of new
Centres
Registration of
training institutes
Requirements for
registration and
registration fees
Issuing of certificate
of resignation
Issuing of
temporary
certificates of
registration

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
8A
41. (1) It is possible to appeal to the Secretary within 30 days from the date the notice is
received on rejection of an application.
(2) When such an appeal is received, the Secretary should forward it to the Management
Committee. Then he should hand it over to the Chief Secretary with his observations
together with the recommendations and observations of the Managment Committee.
(3) The Chief Secretary holds the power to take decisions on the appeals forwarded by the
Secretary and the Chief Secretary's decision shall be considered final and conclusive.
42. Any person or group of persons operating an unregistered Centre violating the provisons of
this Charter will be considered an offender under the Charter.
43. (1) The unit shall issue a Certificate of Registration with a unique number to every Centre
registered and this certificate should be displayed in the Centre.
(2) The unit shall maintain a documents on the Centres registered under it.
(3) A Certificate of Registration cannot be transferred to another party without the consent
of the Unit. Such a transfer will be null and void.
(4) Provision pertaining to proper transfer of a Certificate of Registration should be enforced
by the Minister through regulations.
44. The Director has the power to cancel a Certificate of Registration on the decision of the
Management Committee under following circumstances.
(1) Violation of one or several of the basic requirements for registration.
(2) Failure to inform the Unit and get the registration information updated when the
ownership change.
PART V
COMMON PROVISIONS
45 (1) The minister shall, inquiring Managment Committee, prepare regulations and orders
pertaining to registration of Centres, set minimum standards for Centres and required
to fulfill the functions of this Ordinance.
(2) All such regulations/orders prepared by the Minister should be implemented from the
date of its publishing it in the Gazette or from a date indicated in this order.
(3) All such regulations/orders prepared by the Minister should be produced to the
Provincial Council for approval immediately after the Gazette is published.
(4) The announcement on date of repeal of a regulation/order should be published in
Gazette.
(5) The regulations and orders prepared under this Charter should come into power as
imposed by this Charter.
Appeals regarding
rejected applications
Operating an
unregistered Centre
Display of
certificate of
resignation
Situations where
certificate of
registration can be
cancelled
Regulations and
orders

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2015
46. Officers and employees of the Unit shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code and the establishment code.
47. The unit shall be deemed to be a scheduled institution within the meeting of the Bribery Act
and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
48. (1) Violation of a provision or a regulation or order imposed under such provisions of this
Charter, or obstructing or resisting an officer in the exercise of any power conferred on
him by this Charter is considered an offence.
(2) Any person who commits an offence mentioned in subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Charter and shall on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate
be liable to a fine not more than ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
INTERPRETATION
In this Charter unless the context otherwise required.
“Province” means the Central Province.
“Governor” means Hon. Governor of the Central Province.
“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council.
“Centres” means a person, board of people or an institute that develop skills of children in early
childhood and Day Care Centres that take care of such children.
“Director” means the person who is duly appointed as the director according to this Charter and/or
the person who is authorised to act on behalf of the above mentioned officer.
“Provincial Public Service” is as defined by Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
“Managers” means the patrons, owners and entrepreneurs operating the centres.
“Special children” means children who are in the “early childhood” age group who should attend a
“centre” but with special needs due to weak eyesight, weak hearing, physically handicapped or
impaired brain development.
“Person running a Centre ” means any person, businessman, voluntary organiasation or incorporated
body running a Centre/Centres.
Words importing one gender shall include all other genders.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil or English texts of this
Charter, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
06-106
Officers and
employees of shall
be deemed to be
public servants
Unit as a scheduled
under Bribery Act.
Offences and
punishments
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.