

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2131
2131
wxl 1"938 - 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'10'23
No. 1,938 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 23, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2134
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2135
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th November, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th
October,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,937 of 16.10.2015   was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2132
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2133
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2134
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  SPORTS  DEVELOPMENT
Recruitment to the Post of Warden (02 Vacancies)
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who fulfill the
following qualifications for the existing vacancies of the post of
Warden in the Department of Sports Development.
01. Educational Qualifications and Other Qualifications :
1.1 Educational Qualifications :
1.1.1 Should have passed six (06) subjects in one sitting
with credits for Sinhala/Tamil/English language,
Mathematics and two other subjects at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
1.1.2 Should have passed at least one subject (except the
Common General Test) at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination.
1.2 Professional Qualifications.– Professional Qualifications
in the field are considered as special qualifications.
1.3 Experience.– Not less than two years of experience in a
post equal to or higher than Sub Warden in a government
or affiliated hostel/institution.
1.4 Physical Qualifications .– All applicants should be
physically and mentally fitting to work in any area of Sri
Lanka and to fulfill the duties of the office.
1.5 Applicants should possess an excellent character.
02. Salary Scale.– Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320
- Rs. 22,040 (MN-1-2006A)
03. General conditions :
3.1 Age limit.– Should not be below 18 years and over 30
years on 01.07.2015.
3.2 Method of Recruitment :
3.2.1 Eligible individuals are selected from the applicants
who fulfill the qualifications mentioned in this notice
in every aspect under all other conditions prescribed
by the Public Administrative Circular : 15/90 through
a structured interview conducted by a duly
constituted board of interviewers.
3.2.2 Conditions of appointment in service. – This
designation is permanent and includes pension.
Should pay contribution fees to the widow/male
widow and orphan pension schemes.
3.2.3 Conditions of service.– Referring to the articles from
10-12 in chapter ii of the Institutional Code.
3.2.4 Duly filled application forms (specimen application
form indicated at the end of this notice) should be
forwarded by the applicants to Director General,
Department of Sports Development, No. 09, Phillip
Gunawardane Mawatha, Colombo 07 to be received
on or before 06.11.2015.
3.2.5 The words "Position  of Warden - 2015" should be
indicated on the upper left corner of the envelope.
Application forms should be fully complete. Late
applications are rejected without notice and
complaints about the application, related documents
or displacements in the post are not considered. Any
loss resulted by suspending the application forms
without forwarding until the deadline should be
tolerated by the applicants. Receipt of the
application forms is not noticed.
3.2.6 Individuals will be subjected to dismissal from
service in case it is confirmed that the applicant has
intentionally provided false information, suppressed
any vital information or in case it is confirmed that
he/she is not eligible for service at any instance during
the period of service.
K. D. S. R
UWANCHANDRA,
Director General,
Department of Sports Development.
No. 09, Phillip Gunawardane Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
05th October, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF SPORTS DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATION TO THE POST OF WARDEN
01. (i) Name with initials :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Names indicated by initials :––––––––––––––.
02. (i) Personal address :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Sex :––––––––––––––.
03. NIC No. :––––––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
05. Age at 01.07.2015 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
06. (i) Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Experience in the relevant field :––––––––––––––.
(Please attach copies of certificates)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2135
07. Telephone Numbers :
Landline :––––––––––––––.
Mobile :––––––––––––––.
08. Have you ever been convicted for any charge at the court ?
Yes/No (If yes provide information) :––––––––––––––.
09. Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I, declare that the information provided in this application
is true and accurate to my best knowledge.
(ii) I am aware that I am not eligible for appointment in service
in case the information provided in this application is
proved to be false and that I will be subjected to dismissal
from service in case it is thus proved after being appointed
in service.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––––.
10–776
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WILD  LIFE
Department of National Botanic Gardens
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT OF ASSISTANT CHARGE COLLECTOR IN
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT NON TECHNICAL SEGMENT
02 SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NA TIONAL
BOTANIC GARDENS
APPLICATIONS are invited from the qualified candidates for the
post of Assistant Charge Collector to fill the vacancies available in
below mentioned Botanic Gardens attached to the Department of
National Botanic Gardens.
01. 1. Service Stations where vacancies are available :
(i) Gampaha Botanic Gardens - Henerathgoda Gampaha
(ii) Hakgala Botanic Gardens - Hakgala, Nuwara-Eliya
(iii) Dry Zone Botanic Gardens - Mirijjawila, Hambantota
(iv) Wet Zone Botanic Gardens - Seethawaka, Avissawella
(v) Royal Botanic Gardens - Peradeniya
1.2 Nature of the duties.– Collect the relevant admission fees
from the visitors and issuing the relevant tickets, collecting
the other charges and issuing bills and maintaining the
documents pertaining to bills of charges and financial
documents.
02. Conditions of Service. – The selected candidates will be
appointed to Grade III of the relevant service upon following
conditions :
(i) This post in permanent and pensionable.
(ii) The appointment is subjected to a probation period of
three years from the date of appointment.
(iii) The selected officers are required to comply with the
provisions of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and rules and regulations already
made or that may be made to give effect to the language
policy of government. They will be subjected to the
relevant provisions of Establishment Code, Financial
Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other orders
already issued or which may be issued by the government
from time to time. Selected candidates should adhere to
the regulations of the Public Service Commission.
(iv) The officer should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination
before he/she reach the 4th salary step from the date of
appointment in Grade III.
(v) The relevant proficiency level of the second official
language should be acquired as per the provisions of Public
Administration Circular 07/2007 date on 28.05.2007.
03. Salary Group and Scale :
Salary Group : MN 1-2006A in Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006(IV) Salary Scale (Monthly)
Rs. 13,120 - 10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 -
Rs. 22,040 (In addition to this government approved
allowances will be given)
04. Qualifications :
4.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six
(06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil,
Mathematics and two other subjects in one sitting ;
and
(ii) Should have passed at least one (01) major subject at
the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (Except General Test).
4.2 Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and more
than 30 years of age at the closing date of applications.
4.3 Other :
(i) Every applicant should be in good mental and physical
order to serve in any part of the island and to discharge
the duties and functions of the post.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2136
(ii) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(iii) Applicants should bear an excellent moral character.
(iv) Applicants should have fulfilled and qualifications
required for recruitment to the post at the closing
date of applications.
05. Procedure of Recruitment.– Candidates who fulfilled the basic
qualifications will be selected through an open competitive
examination and structured interview. The double number of
candidates compared to available vacancies will be called to the
structured interview from those who obtain higher marks in the
competitive examination and candidates will be appointed to the
available vacancies according to the qualifications based on the marks
they obtain from the competitive examination and the structured
interview :
5.1 Written Examination - 100 marks
A combined question paper to assess General Knowledge,
Intelligence and language ability. The minimum marks to
qualify is 40%.
5.2 Structured Interview - 100 marks
Marks will be given to additional educational qualifications,
computer literacy, language ability and the skills shown
at the interview.
5.3 The date and the venue of the examination will be notify
later.
5.4 Medium of Language. – The open examination will be
held in Sinhala and Tamil languages.
6. Method of Application.– The application should be prepared in
the form of the specimen appended to this notification using A4 size
(8 1/2" x 12") paper using both sides.
6.1 Examination Fee. – Deposit Rs. 400 in favour of the
account number 0007040743 of the Director General of
Department of National Botanic Gardens and before the
closing date of application and pasted in the relevant cage
of the application form (Keep a photocopy for future
reference).
6.2 Photocopy of the following documents should be
attached along with the application :
(i) Receipt of the examination fee.
(ii) G. C. E. (O/L) Certificate.
(iii) G. C. E. (A/L) Certificate.
(iv) Birth Certificate.
6.3 Closing date of the application.– 13th November, 2015.
6.4 Address .– Duly completed applications should be
forwarded by registered post addressed to below address
to reach on or before 13th November, 2015. The Open
Competitive Examination - Assistant Charge Collector
written on the left hand top corner of the envelope
enclosing the application :
The Director General,
Department of National Botanic Gardens,
P. O. Box 14,
Peradeniya.
6.5 The Director General himself the right to make any final
decision with regard to applications which are received
late and which are not fulfilling the basic qualifications
and incomplete applications and applications which copies
are not attached.
Dr. D. H. P. P
ERAMUNAGAMA,
The Director General,
Department of National Botanic Gardens.
APPLICATION
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT OF ASSISTANT CHARGE
COLLECTOR IN MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT NON TECHNICAL SEGMENT 02
SERVICE OF DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL BOTANIC GARDENS
(Office use only)
01. Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 01
Tamil - 02
02. (i) Name with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
(ii) Name with initials uy;d$uy;añh$fukúh :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
03. Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala) :––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
05. (i) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
06. (i) Date of Birth :––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 30.10.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Sex :
Female - 01
Male - 02
08. Civil Status :
Married
Unmarried
09. Ethnic Group :
Sinhala 01,  Tamil 02
Muslim 03, Other 04

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2137
10. Telephone No. :––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
01 06
02 07
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subject Pass
01.
02.
03.
04.
12. Present occupation :––––––––––.
Name and Address of working place :––––––––––.
13. (i) Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any offence
Yes/No :––––––––––.
If yes give particulars :––––––––––.
(ii) Have you been dismissed or treated as a person vacated
the post form Public Service Yes/No :––––––––––.
14. Particulars of the receipt for payment of examination :
Fees :––––––––––.
Number :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Bank :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt properly
15. Declaration of the Candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true and correct to
the best of my knoweldge and I declare that I have annexed the
relevant photocopies. Further I agree to abide by the rules and
regulations which area in effect regarding this examination. I also
agree that the informations furnished by me are false I will be
disqualified to sit the examination and to be appointed to the post in
such circumstances my application could be rejected and my
candidature will be banned. The Director General of National Botanic
Gardens reserves the final decision.
16. For Public Servant candidates :
Certificate of the Head of Department
I forward herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................
I wish to state the he/she is serving in this institute as a permanent/
temporary employee and I state that his/her performance/attendance/
behaviour are satisfactory/unsatisfactory and he/she can/cannot be
release if he/she is selected for this post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
Official Frank.
Date :––––––––––.
10–834
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICES  COMMISSION
Ministry of Women and Child Affairs
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER
(DEPARTMENT) OF DEPARTMENT PROBATION AND
CHILD CARE SERVICES - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from citizens of Sri Lanka who
possess following qualifications for the post of Assistant
Commissioner (Department) of Department Probation and Child
Care Services.
1. Method of Recruitment.– The most suitable candidates will be
recruited by the Public Services Commission out of the candidates
who possess the qualifications prescribed in the notification depending
on the highest total marks on the results of the structured interview
and the written test.
The date on which this appointment comes into effect will be
determined on order of the Public Services Commission.
2. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications/Professional Qualifications :
* Probation Officers, Child Rights Promotion Officers of
the Department of Probation and Childcare Services
holding posts in field/office service segment 2 (MN 05-
2006A) with an active and satisfactory service period of
05 years or more in class category 1 who possess a degree
in a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission are eligible to apply for this post.
* Should have completed a satisfactory service period
during the period of last five years.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2138
(ii) Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall be physically
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and to
perform the duties in the post.
(iii) Other :
* Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
* Shall be of an excellent moral character,
* Shall have satisfied each and every way all the
qualifications required for recruitment to post as at the
closing date of application.
(iv) Age limit.– Age limit is not applicable since this applies
for those who are already in the Public Service.
3. Conditions for engagement in service and service conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution to
the Widow/Widowers and Orphans Fund and Pension
Scheme shall be made.
(ii) The appointment shall be subjected to an acting period of
one year. The officer shall pass the First Efficiency Bar
Examination mentioned in the procedure of recruitment
within three years from the date of recruitment to Grade
III of Assistant Commissioner.
(iii) Shall have to acquire relevant proficiency in other official
language within five years from the date of recruitment to
the post as per Public Administration Circular No.
07/2007 and circulars consequential thereto.
(iv) This appointment shall be subjected to the procedural rules
of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations of the government and other Departmental
orders.
4. Salary Scale.– This post in entitled to the monthly salary scale
of Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 - 8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Salary
Segment SL-1-2006 of P. A. Circular No. 6/2006, 25.04.2006)
5. Written Examination :
(i) Written Examination will be conducted in Colombo in
February 2016 by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on behalf of the Public Services
Commission.
(ii) Examination will be conducted in all the Sinhalese, Tamil
and English languages.
(iii) A candidate shall face the examination in anyone of the
languages mentioned above. He/she has to face all the
subjects only in one language of his/her preference.
Candidates are not allowed to change the medium they
have selected later on.
(iv) The written examination consists of question papers on
the following subjects.
Subject Subject Duration Maximum Pass
Number Marks Marks
01 Subject related studies 1 1/2 hrs 100 40%
02 IQ Test 1 hr. 100 40%
Syllabus of the written test :
(a) Subject related studies.– This is a practical question paper
with relevance the ordinances, Child Welfare and
Development Ordinance, Child Protection Ordinance,
Juvenile Offenders Rehabilitation Ordinance, Children and
Young Persons Ordinance, Probation of Offenders
Ordinance, Child Orphanage Ordinance, Adoption of
Children Ordinance, Penalty Fees Ordinance, Vagrants
Ordinance and Youth Offenders training College Ordinance
which are pertinent to the Probation Sector.
(b) IQ test.– This is a short examination paper to test creative
thinking capacity, problem solving capacity and analytical
capacity of the applicant. This consists of 50 questions
including MCQs and questions for brief answers and all the
questions have to be answered.
6. Structured Interview.– The applicants who have scored at least
40% or more marks than that for each of the papers in the
written examination shall only be summoned for the
interview. Nevertheless, the number of applicants summoned
for the interview shall not be more than five times the number
of vacancies to be filled. The interview carried 100 marks.
The minimum score shall not be reduced for any reason.
The interview will be conducted by an interview board
appointed by the Public Services Commission and the
marks will be given in the following manner :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01 Additional educational qualifications 20
02 Professional qualifications obtained relevant 25
to the field
03 Service experience 40
04 Language competency 10
05 Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
Sub total 100
7. Method of application :
(i) The applications should be prepared in the in an A4 paper
following the specimen application using both sides of the
A4 paper and hsall include Heads Numbers 01 to 08 on the
first page and the rest on the other pages respectively. It
should be filled in the applicant's own handwriting. When
preparing the applications, the name of the examination
mentioned in the head of the letter should be indicated in

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2139
English language as well in both Sinhala medium and Tamil
medium papers. Applications which are not consistent to
the model application and not duelly filled by the applicants
shall be rejected without any notice. It will be beneficial to
keep a photocopy of the application with the candidate.
(ii) The application should be filled in the language in which the
applicant is expected to sit for the examination.
(iii) The duelly filled applications should be sent through
registered post to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, P. O. Box
1503, Colombo to reach on or before 23rd November 2015.
The applications received after this closing date will be
rejected. "Limited competitive Examination for Recruitment
to Assistant Commissioner (Department) of Department
Probation and Child care Services - 2015" should be clearly
indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
(iv) The applications which do not fulfill all the requirements
will be rejected. Complaints submitted related to any postal
delay or loss will not be considered.
(v) The admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations to the applicants who have sent duelly
filled applications having attached the payment receipt of
relevant examination fees to reach the Department on or
before the due date.
(vi) A newspaper notice will be released by the Sri Lanka
Department of Examinations as soon as the examination
admissions are issued. Any applicant who has not received
his or her admission card five days at the least before the
examination, shall make an inquiry from the organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch of the Sri Lanka
Department of Examinations as specified in the notice. When
inquiring, the name of the examination for which the candidate
has applied, full name of the applicant, National Identity
Card Number and the address will have to be mentioned
accurately. If the applicant is residing away from Colombo,
it will be beneficial to make the inquiry including a fax
number along with the other information which will facilitate
the applicant to get a copy of the admission expeditiously
by sending a request letter to the fax number given in the
notice. It will be further beneficial to keep copies of the
application sent, receipt of paying examination fees and the
registration receipt ready with the applicant to produce
when needed to confirm any information inquired by the
Department of Examinations.
(vii) The applicant's signature should be certified in both the
application and the admission card. The applicants who are
applying from any institution shall get their signatures
attested by the respective Head of Department or any other
officer authorized by the Head and the signatures of the
candidates who are not from any institution shall be attested
by a Principal of a Government School/Grama Niladari of
the division/Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/
Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/Commissioned Officer in
the Armed Forces or a permanent staff grade officer holding
a permanent post in the Public Service or Provincial Public
Service whose annual consolidated salary is Rs. 240,360 or
more.
8. Admissions for Examination :
(i) Admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to all the eligible applicants who have sent
duely completed applications. A candidate sitting for the
examination shall produce the admission to the chief of the
examination centre after getting the signature certified. Any
applicant who fails to produce the admission card at the
examination shall not be allowed to sit for the examination.
The applicants shall adhere to rules and regulations
stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations
pertaining to conducting the examination. If such rules and
regulations are violated, he/she shall undergo any punishment
stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(ii) The applicant has to sit for the examination in the relevant
examination hall named for him/her. All the applicants shall
handover their admissions to the Chief of the centre on the
first day of the examination itself. This Gazette includes a
set of rules and regulations which shall be adhered by all the
applicants.
Note.– Issuance of an admission to a candidate does not
mean that he/she has fulfilled the expected requirements
included in the Gazette Notice.
9. Results of the Examination .– Results sheets prepared on the
basis of the priority given to the total marks obtained from the
written examination and the structured interview shall be submitted
to the secretary of the Public Services Commission. Results of all the
applicants who sit for the examination shall either be individually
sent to them or published in the web site 
www.results.exams.gov.lk
of the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations.
10. Examination fees is Rs. 1,000. This amount shall be paid in
cash to any post/sub post office of the island to be credited to the
Government Revenue under the Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations on or before the closing date
of sending applications and the receipt obtained to the name of the
applicant should be properly attached pasting it from one edge on
the space provided in the application. Money Orders or stamps will
not be accepted for the purpose of paying examination fees.
Resign Note.– Any applicant who abstains from sitting for
the examination, who gets absent, or who becomes
disqualified after the examination shall not be entitled to
get the full or a part of the payment of examination fees
refunded.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2140
11. Identity of candidates. – It is required by the applicant to
prove his/her identity in a satisfactory manner to the Chief of the
examination hall when sitting for each of the subjects.
Any of the following documents shall be accepted, for proving
the identity at the examination :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
2. A valid passport.
12. Furnishing False Information.– If any information stated in
the application is found to be false and incorrect prior to recruitment,
your candidature shall be cancelled. If such false or incorrect
information is found after recruitment, you are liable for dismissal
from service, subjected to relevant actions.
13. The Public Service Commission shall reserve the right to fill
or not to fill the vacancies.
14. The final decision related to any matter not specified in this
Gazette Notice if any, shall be on the Order of the Public Services
Commission, Similarly, the final decision related to filling all or a part
of the vacancies or not filling them shall be taken by the Public
Services Commission.
15. Sinhala text shall prevail in case of any inconsistency among
the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Women and Child Affairs.
5th Floor, 2nd Stage,
Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla,
08th October, 2015.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION
mßjdi yd <udrlaIl fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ iyldr flduidßia ^fomd¾;fïka;=.;& ;k;=r i|yd
n|jd .ekSfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2015
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (DEPARTMENT) OF DEPARTMENT OF PROBATION
AND CHILD CARE SERVICES - 2015
Medium of Examination : (For office use only)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the box)
01. (i) Full Name (In block capitals) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : HERATH  MUDIY ANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
(ii) Last Name with initials at the end (In block capitals) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
(iii) Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Present place of employment and address (In block capitals) :––––––––––.
(Admissions will be posted to this address)
03. Sex : Male  -  0 Female  -  1
(Write the relevant number in the box)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. Telephone Number :
06. (i) Present service category/Grade and the date of absorption into that service Category/Grade :––––––––––.
(ii) Service period in Grade I :––––––––––.
07. Have you earned all the incements during the past five from 17th August 2015 if any increment has not been earned, give reasons for it :
––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2141
08. Has any disciplinary action been taken against you during the past five years ? if so indicate details of the nature of the offence and the
punitive action taken and the date on which such punitive action was taken :––––––––––.
09. Examination Fees :
(i) Receipt Number :––––––––––.
(ii) Date :––––––––––.
(iii) Office to which the payment has been made :––––––––.
(iv) Amount paid :
Attach the payment receipt from one edge firmly.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
10. Certification of the Applicant :
I, do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me here are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. Further, I declare
that I abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner of Examinations pertaining to conduct the examination. I also agree
to bounded by any rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner of Examinations pertaining to conduct the examination and I agree
to the cancellation of my candidature before, during or after the examination if I am proved to be disqualified as per the examination related
regulations.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
11. Certification of the Supervisor :
I, do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms ............................................... presenting this application placed his/her signature in front
of me and has paid the examination fees and has attached the receipt.
––––––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Name :––––––––––.
Title :––––––––––.
Place :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
12. Certification of the Head of the Department :
I, do hereby certify that the details furnished by Mr/Mrs./Ms ................................ presenting this application, are accurate as per
his/her service record, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per the regulations stated in the relevant Gazette Notification, he/she has
paid the relevant examination fees and has attached the receipt and he/she shall be released from the present service if selected for a post
based on the results of this examination.
––––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp)
Name :––––––––––.
Title :––––––––––.
Place :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
After the closing date, candidates are not allowed to change the medium of examination, previously selected to sit for the
examination.
10–936

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2142
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
RECRUITMENT TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED POSTS
(PL 02-2006A) WHICH REMAIN V ACANT IN SURVEY
DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA - SURVEY FIELD
ASSISTANT
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to
recruit to the post of primary semi skilled (PL 02-2006A) survey
assistant which remains vacant in Survey Department.
1.1 Post Grade
1. Survey Field Assistant Grade III
1.2 Nature of duties of posts :
Post Main Functions
Survey * Giving assistance to draw the sketch relevant to the
Field survey.
Assistant * Preparation of survey lines as possible as to observe
old boundaries, using survey field books and plans.
* Placing and opening of relevant land marks and
pickets in area relevant ot the Survey.
* Giving Assistance to Survey duties relevant to
finding out and placing of bench marks relevant to
the Survey.
* Giving Assistance to maintenance relevant to the
safety and storing of instruments, use in the field.
* Setting out of G . P. S. instruments in survey points
in field for surveys which are done, using of satellite
technology including of theodolite, leveling
instruments and new electronic total stations.
* Giving assistance to all activities of placing of geo
control points require for air photography.
* Keeping of targets properly that require for
determination of location and level of all stations
which made in surveys and giving assistance to
collect data.
* Setting out of landmarks and bench marks using
correct data in survey.
* Setting out of landmarks relevant to blocking out of
lands which basically done using the data in survey
field books and tracing entries.
* Attending to any duty assigned by Surveyor General
or his representative as applicable to surveying.
* Supervision of works of other survey field
assistants is assigned for those who hold the post
of overseers in survey field assistant grade, in
addition to the above duties.
2. The number of appointments and the date of appointment will
be decided by the appointing authority. The appointing authority
has power to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3. Salary.– Table No. 01.
Grade Salary Scale Initial monthly
salary
Grade III Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 Rs. 12,210
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Grade II Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 Rs. 13,655
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Grade I Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 Rs. 15,120
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
Special Monthly Rs. 12,210 -10x130 Rs. 16.730
Grade 10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 -
Rs. 18,600 (PL 2-2006A)
4. This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointment is subject
to 03 year probation period and selected candidates are bound to
serve in any part of the country and subject to general conditions
applicable to appointment to the public service.
5. Qualifications :
5.1 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. Ordinary Level
Examination in six (06) subjects with at least two
credits passes in not more than two sittings.
5.2 Professional qualifications.– Should have obtained a skill
at least in level two of National V ocational Qualifications
(NVQ) as determined by the tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission as appropriate for the post of
survey field assistant.
5.3 Minimum skills :
(a) Giving assistance to identify survey fields.
(b) Attending to safety and maintenance of survey
instruments and equipments.
5.4 Physical fitness.– All candidates should have physically
and mentally fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
and to carry out duties in the post.
5.5 Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) The candidate should be of excellent moral character.
(iii) All the necessary qualifications for recruitment to
the post should have been fulfilled in all respect as at
the closing date of calling for application.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2143
5.6 Age :
(a) The minimum age should be 18 years and maximum
age should be 45 years as at the closing date of
applicable. (The maximum age limit is not applicable
for those who hold a permanent post already in the
public service)
6. Furnishing false information.– In filling these vacancies, if a
candidate is found not to have necessary qualifications, his/her
candidature can be cancelled. If any of the particulars furnished by a
candidate is found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she
has willfully suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to
dismissal from the public service.
7. Method of recruitment. – Recruitment will be on a written
examination.
Examination Procedure.– The examination will consists of written
test considting two subjects. This examination will be held in Sinhala,
Tamil and English mediums. The medium applied for will not be
allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum Minimum percentage Time
marks of marks
obtainable required for a
pass
1. General 100 40% 02 hours
Knowledge
2. Intelligence 100 40% 01 hour
and 15
minutes
7.1 Syllabus :
(i) General Knowledge. – Including the knowledge of
environment of the candidate lives, political, social,
cultural, religious and economical environment in Sri
Lanka, scientific and technological development,
internationally important general facts are expected
by this paper.
(ii) Intelligence Test.– A question paper made in multiple
choice method, consists of questions to judge the
rationality, abilty of thought and ability to take decision,
of the candidate.
8. Selection procedure.– After an interview held by an interview
board appointed by Surveyor General only to ascertain whether the
qualifications have been fulfilled by the candidates, recruitment will
be made as survey field assistant in order of merits obtained by
candidates in the written examination.
One month field and theoretical training will be given to those
who recruited as survey field assistants by the training institute of
Survey Department.
9. Preparation and submission of applications :
(a) The application should be prepared by the applicant
himself on a paper size 21x29 (A4) using both sides as
per the specimen application appearing at the end of this
notice. Item No. 01 to 06 should be on page 01, No. 07-
09.2 on page 02, No. 10-14 on page 03 and No. 15-16.2
should be on page 04.
(b) Candidates who are already employed in public service
shoudl forward their applications through their heads of
the departments before the closing date of application.
(c) Applications should be in the language in which the
candidates in eligible to sit the examination.
(d) Applications which are not complying with the specimen
form, examination fees have not been paid before the
prescribed date, of improper filling, will be rejected without
any notice. Candidate should bear consequences of
improper filling of applications. It would be useful to
retain a photocopy of the application. It is responsibility
of the candidate to find out whether the completed
application complies with the application specified in
the notice. If not, application will be rejected.
(e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledge.
Complaints for any loss of applications in the post will
not be considered.
9.1 Only those who have fulfilled qualifications prescribed
in chapter 5 of Gazette notification as  at the closing date
of application should apply. Surveyor General will allow
candidates who have paid specified examination fees
and submitted application on or before 20.11.2015 to sit
the competitive examination. Issuing of admission card
shall not be deemed as the applicant possesses
qualifications to the post or to sit the examination.
9.2 The envelope containing the application should be clearly
marked “Recruitment to the posts of primary semi skilled
- Survey Field Assistant” on the top left hand corner.
9.3 The signature of the applicant in the application should
be certified by a principal of a government school/justice
of the peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/
Commissioned Officer in the Army/An officer in Police
Service hold a Gazetted Post or an Officer who hold a
permanent post in Public service in tertiary or senior
level in terms of the grading of Public Service Circular
No. 06/2006.
10. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. This fee
should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General Office in
No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of district survey
office or at institute of surveying and mapping - Diyathalawa. The
receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage in the application
form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with
applicant). The fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money
orders and cheques will not be accepted. Applications without cash
receipts will be rejected.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2144
11. Submission of application .– Completed application should
be sent by registered post to reach to the following address on or
before 20.11.2015 :
Senior Superintendent of Survey (Examination),
Surveyor General's Office,
Colombo 05.
12. Appearing for the Examination .– Every candidate should
hand over their admission cards to the supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will
not be permitted to sit the examination. The candidate should sit
the examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
13. Identity of Candidate.– Candidates should prove their Identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
paper they sit. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for their purpose :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master
General,
(iii) A valid passport.
14. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the
Surveyor General.
P. M. P. U
DAYAKANTHA,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General's Office,
Colombo 05,
09th October, 2015.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
RECRUITMENT TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED POST (PL 02-2006A) WHICH
REMAIN V ACANT IN SURVEY DEPARTMENT-SURVEY FIELD ASSISTANT
01. Index No. 
For office use only
02. Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - S T amil - T English - E)
(Indicate the letter/code in given cages)
03. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
In Sinhala :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
03.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Date of Birth :
Date :             Month : Y ear :
05.1 Age as at the closing date of application :–––––––––––.
06. Gender :
Male - M
Female - F
07. Permanent address (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––.
07.1 Administrative District to which address belongs :
(See the Schedule 1)
District No. :           Name of the District :
07.2 Date from which the applicant is resident in the district :
–––––––––––.
08. Telephone No. : Permanent :–––––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
9.1 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt :
(a) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(b) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(c) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
09.2 Details of G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
2nd attempt :
(d) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(e) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(f) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2015
2145
10. Professional Qualifications (Mention the NVQ qualifications
that have been obtained) :–––––––––––.
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence :
Yes N o
12.1 If yes give details :–––––––––––.
13. Details of receipt which the examination fees paid :
(i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
14. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to
be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment
and if it is found after the appointment, I would be liable
to dismissal from the service.
(c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of .................
has been pasted in relevant cage.
(d) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the rules
and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in
respect of the examination.
(e) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mention here.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
15. Certification of Signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ who is submitting
the application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature under the Section 13, in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
16. Recommendation of the Head of the Department (Only for the
applicants who are in Public/Provincial Public Service) :––––.
16.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during the
five years immediately prior to the closing date of
application :
Work, Behaviour, Attendance satisfactory/Unsatisfactory.
All salary increments have been earned/have not been earned.
Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary action.
16.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can be/
cannot be released from the post he holds at present.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––.
SCHEDULE 01
This Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which
address belongs on No. 7.1 of the application.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
(i) Colombo 01
(ii) Gampaha 02
(iii) Kaluthara 03
(iv) Kandy 04
(v) Matale 05
(vi) Nuwara Eliya 06
(vii) Galle 07
(viii) Matara 08
(ix) Hambanthota 09
(x) Kurunegala 10
(xi) Puttalam 11
(xii) Anuradhapura 12
(xiii) Polonnaruwa 13
(xiv) Badulla 14
(xv) Moneragala 15
(xvi) Rathnapura 16
(xvii) Kegalle 17
(xviii) Ampara 18
(xix) Batticaloa 19
(xx) Trincomalee 20
(xxi) Jaffna 21
(xxii) Vavuniya 22
10–912
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.