

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
427
427
wxl 1"854 - 2014 ud¾;= 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'03'14
No. 1,854 – FRIDAY , MARCH 14, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 430
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 431
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th April, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st March,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
428
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
429
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
430
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
BATTICALOA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th Apr il, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Batticaloa Koralai Pattu West - Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages The District Secretary/The Additional
 Oddamavady of Eravur Koralai Pattu Oddamavady Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Division Batticaloa.
03–332
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
431
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th Apr il, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
25th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Thirappane Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Hurulupalatha Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Thirappane Anuradhapura.
Division.
03–374
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of Trainees for the Midwife Training Programme under the Para Medical Services - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the Sri Lankan citizens who are already eligible to be recruited as Trainees for the following course
in the Para Medical Services under the Ministry of Health.
Code Name of the training Programme Training period Medium of language in which
No. course followed
1 Public Health Midwife 1 1/2 years (06 months field training) Sinhala, Tamil
1. Qualified persons will be selected as 30% percent on the basis of island rank and 70% on the basis of Provincial rank as per the
Z-score obtained at the G . C. E. (A/L) examination. Number of trainees who could be recruited on behalf of the training programmes will be
selected on the basis of existed vacancies at the hospital and institutions under the linear Ministry and Provincial Councils available in those
provinces.
Total number of trainees required for the training will be selected as a percentage of the total number of applicants in all the years
to applicants eligible in each year since the actions are taken to call the applications on the basis of Z-score of the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
in any year (under the section 4(a) in this) for this programme.
2. This programme/course is fulltime one. Hence, female students, who are following a fulltime course under a University or
Ministry of Health or in another government institute or in any other institute during 05 days in the week and Saturday morning, should not
apply for this. If someone applied under the following circumstances and if it detects later actions may be taken to recover the all expenses

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
432
spent on her by the government until such time, after removal by the course/post. If someone who is following a fulltime course  in a
University and intends to apply as such, following actions should be taken for such occasions. Applications sent by the persons  who are
already registered for fulltime courses under the Ministry of Health will be rejected.
2.1 If you had been registered or if you have already been registered for a full time course in a university or another
government institute someday, such registration should be cancelled by you as at 15.04.2014. Even though if you are a
student who did not attend for lectures from the date of registration or if you are not attending for the lectures regularly
such registrations should also be cancelled by the relevant appilcants as you are considered a university student. Adequate
written documents should also available with you in terms of confirm this whenever necessary.
2.2 Eventhough someone/anyone who had not been registered under a university or to a course conducted under the Ministry
of Health on the date 15.04.2014, if she had been registered as at the date of interview for the recruitment of trainees to
the relevant course whatsoever, she will also be disqualified for this course.
2.3 If you have already completed a Degree in any university. The effective date of that Degree should be a date prior to the
date of acceptance of the applications.
Note :
* You are hereby emphasized that it does not mean by any section of this Gazette notification as you will definitely
be selected for the course you applied for eventhough you have already fulfilled the above conditions from above
2.1 to 2.3.
* You should also be informed that you will not be qualified for these courses under any circumstances if you have not
obtained an adequate Z-score to be selected or if you have not fulfilled any other condition even if you have
completed conditions mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3.
* You are further informed that if you have not completed the conditions mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3, you will nto be
qualified for these courses under any circumstances even if you have already fulfilled all the other conditions
mentioned in this after obtaining and adequate Z-score.
3. Education and other special qualifications relevant for the post :
Code Training G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L) Other special qualifications
No. Course Qualifications Qualifications relevant to the training course
1 Public Health Should have passed the G . C. E. Should have passed in 3 subjects * Only the females could apply.
Midwife (O/L) examination in 06 (six) within one sitting from the * Height should be 4 feet and 10
subjects with at least credit subjects Biology, Physics, inches of more than this.
passes for Sinhala Language/Tamil Chemistry and Agriculture by the * All the applicants should be
Language, Mathematics, Science G.  C. E. (A/L) Examination in any unmarried and should not be
including another one subject year. married within the training period.
English Langauge in not more Female students who are attaching
than two sittings to the service temporarily after
giving the theoretical training
should not be entered into a
marriage until appointment are
granted after attaching to the formal
training.
4. Other General Qualifications :
(a) Age should not be less than 18 years or should not be more than 30 years as at 15.04.2014.
(b) Should be preferred/ready to serve at least 10 years within the Province recruited followed by the training.
(c) Should be with satisfactory physical and mental health condition.
(d) Should have the continues residence during nearest 03 years as at the closing date of applications within the district for
which applied.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
433
5. Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared as per the specimen attached herewith, A4 size papers should be utilized for this. This
should be prepared as containing the sections from No. 01 to 10(a) in the first page and sections from 10(b) to 13 in the
second page.
(b) Value of Rs. 300 stamps should be affixed within the place named as "stamp" and this should also be invalid by placing the
own signatory on thereof.
(c) Applicant's signatory should be attested by an officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Administrative
Service/Government Accountant/Principal of Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney at law or service by an
officer who is holding a Pensionable Post under Government and drawing an annual salary not less than Rs. 240,360 with
confirmed at the post.
(d) Duly completed application should be contained in one envelope and "Recruitment of trainees for the midwife training
programme under the Para Medical Services 2014" should be mentioned in the top-left corner of this cover and should be
sent through the registered post to the address of Director (Admin.) 02, Ministry of Health, "Suawasiripaya", No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 before 15.04.2014.
6. The applications of government employees or semi government employees should be sent through their Head of the Department.
Also it should be noted that this is an external recruitment.
7. Receipt of the applications will not be informed.
8. Applications received after the due date will be refused.
9. Application that is not accorded with the regulations and relevant specimen mentioned in this notification would be rejected
without any informing.
10. Only a selected group of applicants on the basis of a priority list that is prepared as per the Z-Score among the applicants, who
have fulfilled the above qualifications, will be invited for an interview, with the representation of the staff officers under the Ministry of
Health. Originals of the following particulars should be submitted by the applicants at the interview.
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) The G . C. E. (A/L) result sheet and the originals in which Z-score is shown (certified copy of this should also be sent
attaching with the application) ;
(c) Original certificate of the G . C. E. (O/L) result sheet ;
(d) National Identity Card or Passport or driving license (certified copy of this should also be sent together with the
application) ;
(e) Certificate on proving residence and issued by the Grama Niladhari (Village officer certificate) with the confirmation by
the Divisional Secretaries for the vertification on residence as per above 4(d).
(f) Formal affidavit signed by the justice of the peace in order to confirm the unmarried status.
11. The training procedure :
(i) Selected applicants among the applicants underwent for the interview will be admitted for each training school in order to
follow the relevant training course. Courses could be followed in the medium of languages as Sinhala/Tamil.
(ii) Trainees who are admitted to the training schools will be subject to the existed laws and regulations enforced in the training
schools and to other orders implemented time to time by the Ministry of Health.
(iii) Training of the students who are failed by the relevant specified examinations or those who are with unsatisfactory work
and conduct or those who are unable to be adapted with the examinations and leaves relevant to the training school
admitted in within the training period, may be terminated any time without granting any compensation.
(iv) A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,360 will be paid to the trainees during the training period.
(v) Should be engaged in to an agreement and surety Bond with the Director General of Health Services as to be agreed to fulfill
the training successfully, to be agreed to not left out the course to be agreed to serve at least 10 years period of time in the
appointed hospital or Department of Health in the relevant Provincial Council or Liner Ministry, or under the relevant

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
434
post. If avoided the training, left the training during the training period if action where taken remove/dismiss from the
service as per the above Section III or if unable to fulfill the duties under the relevant post in the Department of Health
during a period of 10 years with the receipt of the appointments, she should pay the allowances granted to her during the
training, the expences in incurred by the Government on behalf of her and relevant surety as per the surety Bond, to the
Department of Health Services. If not actions would be taken in accordance with the law under the agreement in terms of
recover the such amount of credits.
12. Regulations under which employed in service.– Government is not bound to be granted the permanent appointments at the end
of the training. However, the candidates will be considered to be appointed for a post in Class III under the relevant post on the basis of the
conditions in the relevant recruitment procedure and number of vacancies available in the province under the course recruited.
Should be served in the province selected for the training for period of 10 years since, the 1st appointment of the recruited trainees/
apprentices.
Actions will be measured to grant the appointments for the institutes where the vacancies are existed after concerning the merit
sheet (Rank Register) that prepared on the results of final written test held at the end of the course and above 70% percentage  appointed
provincial levels and 30% percent appointed on whole Island Rank.
13. Information on educational and other qualifications should be included very carefully and correctly, when perfecting the
applications. If the aforesaid applications were detected as false after the recruitment or after the appointments actions would be measured
to forward the Criminal Investigation Department for taking legal actions and actions will be taken to dismiss from the training post after
cancellation of the granted appointment as such and actions would be measured to include her name in to the black list shown in which no
one is re-instated under the Government Service by taking disciplinary actions in this regard. Further, actions will be taken to recover the
allowance granted to her during the training and expenses incurred by the Government and relevant amount of credit mentioned in the Surety
Bond.
14. Selected applicants should be faced with Medical Test within the 1st month under the training in order to confirm the Healthy,
Physical and Mental Fitness in order to follow the relevant course and to serve in any part of the Island and if detected as un fit by the
Medical Test will be disqualified from the training.
15. All of them recrutied as aforesaid will be subject to the all of the rules and regulations relevant to the Government employees,
provisions of the Establishments Code in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the Department of Health
Services, Financial Regulations and other regulations, laws and regulations and orders imposed by the Government time to time.
16. If any complicated situation is arisen with regard to any fact which is covered or is not covered by this Gazette Notification
on recruitment for the training, Health Secretary's decision will be final at such occasions.
If any inconsistery is happened in between the Sinhala, Tamil and English sentences of this Gazette Notification Sinhala sentence
will be effective at such time.
17. This Ministry is not bound to supply the residential facilities in the Training Schools for the applicants recruited to the
training, if so, actions will be taken to charge the expenses on evaluated monthly house rental, water and electricity bills.
18. No-entitlement is granted to be involved in trade union actions or Private Services during the training period. If you were
appointed in the relevant post after the training no entitlement is granted to be attended for the Private Services as well. If such an action is
detected after doing so, lawful actions would be taken accordingly.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
27th January, 2014.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
435
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
RECRUITMENT OF TRAINEES FOR THE MIDWIFE TRAINING PROGRAMME UNDER THE PARA MEDICAL SERVICES – 2014
(Read the Gazette Notification thoroughly before fulfilling application form)
Code No. : Relevant to the training programme
(As per the Gazette Notification)
* Programme applied for (in Sinhala/in Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
* Programme applied for (in English) :––––––––––––––.
01. (a) Last name with initials :––––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) : Ex. : A. B. C. SILV A
(b) Name in full (In English block letters) :––––––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/In Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––––. (a copy should be attached)
03. Postal address : In Sinhala/In Tamil In English
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
04. (a) Permanent address : In Sinhala/In Tamil In English
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
............................................. .............................................
(b) Telephone No. : Mobile :––––––––––––––. Permanent :––––––––––––––.
(c) Resided district : In Sinhala/In Tamil :––––––––––––––. In English :––––––––––––––.
(d) Are you a permanent resident within the district : Yes/No :––––––––––––––.
(e) If "Yes" from how many years :––––––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :
Day :––––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––––,  Year :––––––––––––––.
Age as at 15.04.2014 :
Days :––––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––––,  Years :––––––––––––––.
06. Height : Feet :––––––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––––––.
07. Gender : Male Female (“ 3” should be mentioned in the relevant box)
08. Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen Y es No      (“ 3” should be mentioned in the relevant box)
09. Civil status : Married Unmarried
10. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. Advanced Level Examination (A certified copy of the result sheet containing the Z-Score, should be attached) :
District in which faced for Examination :––––––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––––––.   Index No. :––––––––––––––.
Z-Score :––––––––––––––.
# Subject Result
1
2
3
4

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
436
(b) G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination (attach a certificated copy of the (O/L) result sheet) :
First attempt Second attempts
# Subject Year Year
Index No. Index No.
Result Result
1 Sinhala/Tamil Language
2 Mathematics
3 Science
4 English
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
11. Have you ever been convicted by a court on behalf of any allegation/or charge :
Yes :      No : (“ 3” should be mentioned in the relevant box)
If it is yes describe :––––––––––––––.
12. Certification by the applicant :
(a) I hereby honestly declare that this application has been fulfilled by me after reading the Gazette Notification thoroughly and
understanding the facts thereof and under the all conditions mentioned therein and I do not attend any fulltime course/programme
in any other programme and information mentioned in this application by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am well aware that if my statement mentioned here or any other fact mentioned in the application reveled as untrue or false, I will
be liable to be dismissed by the service.
Stamps valid of Rs. 300
––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––––.
13. Attestation of the applicant's signatory :
I hereby certify that Miss ......................... who is presents this application is well known to me and signed before me on ................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature by the Attester (Official Frank).
Date :––––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer attested by :––––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
03-335

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
437
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges  2013/2014
AMENDMENT FOR THE 2013/07/05 GAZETTE
NOTIFICA TION
APPLICATIONS are invited from teachers who posses the following
qualifications to follow the Teacher Education Training Courses in
Government Teachers’ Colleges.
1.1. Untrained teachers serving in Government Schools who
have obtained their formal appointments signed by the
Secretary of Public Service Commission, the Secretary of
Education Service Committee or by the Secretary of the
Provincial Public Service Commission.
1.2. Teachers who have obtained appointments approved by
the Provincial Director of Education and included in the list
of names of Private Schools certified by the Director of
Private Schools in the Ministry of Education.
1.3. Pirivena Teachers who have obtained appointments
approved by the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the Ministry
of Education.
1.4. Teachers who have been certified by the relevant Teacher
Training Authorities as having not completed their course
of studies in Distance Training, Princett or Non-graduate
Weekend Teacher Training Programme.
02. Special Instructions :
2.1 Selections will be made according to the vacancies existing
in Teachers’ Colleges and based on the seniority in assuming
duties in the school. Teachers will not be able to get their
promotion in the teacher service without due professional
qualifications since it will affect the quality education
development.  In consideration of all these facts all untrained
teachers are expected to complete their training.
2.2 This course will be conducted as a two year residential
training and in instances where residential facilities are not
available, permission will be granted to reside within the
vicinity of the Teachers’ College after obtaining written
approval from the Principal.
2.3 It will not be possible to provide the nearest Teachers’
College as the conducting of the course in the respective
Teachers’ Colleges will be decided based on the facilities
available in Teachers’ Colleges.
2.4 During the period of undergoing training in the Teachers’
College, trainees should refrain from following any other
courses or to appear for examinations. Disciplinary action
will be taken after conducting a formal investigation relating
to the information received in this regard and those who
leave the courses.
2.5 This course is not applicable for the following teachers.
(a) the teachers already in the Teachers’ Colleges or
completed a teacher education training course at a
Teachers’ College,
(b) Appointment of Graduate Trainee Teachers or Graduate
Management Assistants or teachers who have an
appointment equivalent to a graduate appointment,
(c) Teachers who have not fulfilled the qualification
mentioned in Item No. 07 in this notification,
Necessary action will be taken for the teachers who
have admitted to this teacher training course without
the qualifications according to the above instructions,
by cancelling the teacher training course while training
or by cancelling the teacher training certificate if after
the completion of the teacher training course.
2.6 Every candidate should submit the following documents at
the date of registration to the teacher training course.
(a) Duly completed Bond,
(b) A copy of the Agreement signed between the
government or the board of management to serve for
05 years continuously in the schools appointed after
the completion of the teacher training course,
2.7 It is compulsory for the teachers appointed under the
District Service basis after the month of April 1982, to
serve in the districts of first appointment school after the
completion of the teacher training course
2.8 No permission is given to the teacher trainees to withdraw
from the teacher training course. If so, a nominal fee with an
additional charge should be charged and credited to the
government account to cover the expenses of the trainee
during the training period.
2.9 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the
information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the
Secretary – Education will be the final decision.
03. (i) Trainees whose general conduct found to be inconsistent
with college discipline and diligence in studies is not up
to the standard expected by the Principal of the Teachers’
College are liable to be discontinued from pursuing
their training and will be sent back to their schools.
Any trainee who does not have 80% attendance and
participation for the course will not be eligible to sit
the Teachers’ College Final Examination. However, the
Secretary, Education reserves the right to make final
decision related to this matter.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
438
(ii) Leave:
Two years full-pay study leave will be granted for
institutional training. All trainees are required to devote
this two year period entirely for their training. However,
under special circumstances a trainee could be granted
a limited number of casual leave only if the Principal is
satisfied with the necessity. It is necessary that prior
approval of the Principal should be obtained for same.
Leave obtained in this manner should not exceed ten
days per year.
A trainee whose progress in studies is found to be
unsatisfactory owing to obtaining of excessive leave is
liable to be discontinued from training and to be sent
back to school. Any medical leave taken should be
supported by a Medical Certificate obtained from a
Government Medical Officer.
04.Trained Teacher Certificate will be awarded to those who
successfully complete the internal tests and passing the final external
examination conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
after following the two year training course.
05.Salary Scale.– In accordance with the amendments made to
the teacher service minute, only trained teachers will be absorbed to
the teacher service on a fixed salary scale.
06.(i) Every candidate will be trained in the subject indicated in
the appointment letter. However, teachers who have
obtained appointments for other subjects can apply only
for the Special Education course. The teachers who have
been appointed as Government teachers and whose subject
is not mentioned in the appointment letter, could apply
for training, in one of the subjects they have passed in the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination. The candidates are expected to
submit a letter approved by the head of the institution at
the interview to say that they are teaching the relevant
subject. Those, whose subject not indicated in the
appointment letter, will be considered as Primary Education
Teachers.
When the subject is not indicated in the letters of
appointments of Government approved Private Schools
teachers and Pirivena teachers they will be selected for
training according to the subject taught by them.
Submission of a copy of the Time Table approved and
signed by the head of the institution is essential.
(ii) In case of insufficient number of applicants to a course,
the Secretary to the Ministry of Education will decide on
conducting the course.
Course No. Name of the Course
(i) 01 Sinhala
(ii) 02 Pri mary Education
(iii) 03 Sociology / Social Studies
(iv) 04 Science
(v) 05 Mathematics
(vi) 06 Agriculture
(vii) 07 Home Science
(viii) 08 English
(ix) 09 Buddhism
(x) 10 Christianity / Roman Catholism
(xi) 11 Hinduism
(xii) 12 Islam
(xiii) 13 Art
(xiv) 14 Music
(xv) 15 Dancing
(xvi) 16 Arabic
(xvii) 17 Special Education
(xviii) 18 Handicrafts and Technology
(xix) 19 Commerce
(xx) 20 T amil
(xxi) 21 Physical Education
(xxii) 22 Second National Language (Sinhala / Tamil)
07. (i) Eligibility.–  Every candidate should have fulfilled the
following conditions.
(i) Should posses a good character,
(ii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) Should have passed six subjects including Mathematics
and First Language at the G .C.E.(O/L) in not more
than 02 sittings,
(iv) Should have three months service as a teacher by
31.12.2013 (This is applicable to teachers who are
working in the Government Schools),
(v) All candidates should prove their type of appointment
by producing their original Letter of first Appointment.
(ii) Candidates who select the under mentioned courses should
possess the qualifications mentioned below in addition to
the above qualifications.
(a) Sinhala Course –
Should have obtained a Credit Pass for Sinhala at the
G.C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(b) Science Course–
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit Passes
at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or
the Senior School Certificate Examination for
Physics, Botany, Biology, Zoology, Chemistry,
Mathematics (Biology will not be considered
along with Botany and Zoology) ; or
(ii) Should have passed in Science and Mathematics
with a Credit Pass for Science in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination.
Course No. Name of the Course

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
439
(c) Mathematics Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit passes
in Physics, Applied Mathematics, Advanced
Mathematics, Elementary Mathematics, Pure
Mathematics, Mathematics, Science at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the Senior
School Certificate Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination in Mathematics and Science with
Credit Pass for Mathematics in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(d) Agriculture Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass in one of the
following subjects at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination (Old Syllabus) or at the Senior
School Certificate Examination Agriculture,
Chemistry, Botany, Zoology ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes in Science and
Agriculture with a Credit Pass for Agriculture in
the New Syllabus, at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in one of the
following subjects Agriculture, Chemistry,
Botany and Zoology at the G.C.E.(A/L)
Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of
the above subjects in the N.C.G .E.
Examination.(a letter from the Principal
certifying the pre-vocational subject of the
candidate is required) ; or
(v) Should have obtained a training of not less than
six months in a Government Farm related to
Agriculture.
(e) Home Science Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Home
Science or Needle Work at G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination or at the Senior Certificate
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in Home Science at
the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of
the above subjects in the N.C.G .E. Examination.
(a letter from the Principal certifying the
pre-vocational subject of the candidate is
required)  ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Certificate after studying
Home Science at a Government Technical College
for a period of not less than one year.
(f) English Course :
(i) Should have an appointment as an English
Teacher ; or
(ii) Should be a teacher in service with 1st, 2nd, 3rd
Class English Teachers’ Certificate ; and
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass for English
Language or English Literature at the G .C.E.
(O/L) / London (O/L) Examination or at the
Senior Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have passed English as a subject at a
higher Examination.
(g) Religion Course :
(i) Candidates applying for a course in Buddhism,
Christianity (RC), Hinduism, Islam should have
obtained a Credit Pass for the relevant religion
at the G .C.E.(O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A ’ or ‘B’ pass for Religion
at the N.C.G .E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in the subject
indicated in (I) above or in a relevant subject at
the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(h) Art Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Certificate from the
Government College of Fine Arts (Three year
Course in Art) ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Teachers’ Certificate
in Art (Sinhala / Tamil / English) ;
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the
G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or at the Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Art at
the N.C.G .E. Examination (A letter from the
Principal certifying the Aesthetic subject of the
candidate is required) ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Pass for Art at the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
440
(i) Music Course :
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate
Certificate in Music of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa
Sabha or the First Part in Peradiga Sangeetha
Examination or Jathika Sangeetha Examination ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate
of the Government College of Fine Arts ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Certificate in Music
(Grade V) of the Northern Ceylon Oriental
Music Teachers’ Association : or
(iv) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate
in Music from any recognized Indian Institution
of Music ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Music at
the G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained a pass in Music at the
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ; or
(vii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Music
at the N.C.G. E. Examination (A  Letter from the
Principal certifying the Aesthetic subject of the
candidate is required).
(j) Dancing Course :
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate
Certificate in Dancing  of the Sri Lanka
Gandharwa Sabha or the First Part in Peradiga
Netum Examination or Jathika Netum
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate
Certificate of the Government College of
Dancing ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Intermediate
Certificate in Dancing  from any recognized
Indian Institution of Dancing ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Dancing
at the G. C. E.(O/L) Examination or Senior
School Certificate Examination ; or
(v) Should have obtained a pass in Dancing at the
G .C.E. (A/L) Examination ; or
(vi). Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Dancing
at the N.C.G . E. Examination (A Letter from
the Principal certifying the Aesthetic subject of
the candidate is required).
(k) Arabic Course :
(i) Should have obtained a pass in stage I and II of
the Al-Alim Preliminary Examination held by
the Department of Examination or should have
obtained a pass in Arabic at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in the Final
Examination of a recognized Madrasa Institute.
The recognized Madrasa Institutes are given
below:
1. Bahijathul Ibrahimiya Arabic College, Fort,
Galle
2. Gafuriya Arabic College, Maharagama
3. Madrathul Bari Arabic College, Weligama
4. Kasimiya Arabic College, Puttalam
5. Nadwatul Ulema Arabic College, Muttur
6. Eastern Lanka Arabic College,
Addalaichchenai
7. Madrasathulfula Arabic College,
Kaththankudi
8. Muslim Ladies Arabic College, KalEliya
9. Madrasathul Jeffriya Arabic College, Galle
10. Hiydadiya Arabic College, Madampe
11. Nadwathul Buhari Arabic College, Kinniya
12. Madrasathul Nooraniya Arabic College,
Kotuwegoda, Matara
13. Makkiya Arabic College, Galle
or
Any other approved Institute (Proof of
recognition of the Institute should be
forwarded at the Interview)
(iii) The teachers of all other appointment with the
qualification of the above (I) or (II) can be applied
for this course.
(l) Special Education Course :
There are three divisions.
(i) Teaching children who are visually handicapped
(Blind)
(ii) Teaching Children who are in the category of
hearing impaired (Deaf)
(iii) Teaching Children who are mentally retarded.
Candidates should indicate the division preferred
in their application. Special consideration will
be given to those having English Knowledge in
selecting suitable candidates.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
441
(m) Handicrafts and Technical Skills Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the
G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School
Examination in one of the following handicraft
subjects;
¾ Wood Work
¾ Metal Work
¾ Weaving
¾ Pottery
¾ Motor Mechanism
¾ Radio Technology
¾ Masonry
or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in relevant
subject at the N.C.G . E. Examination (A Letter
from the Principal certifying the pre-vocational
subject of the candidate is required) ; or
(iii) Should have a certificate in proof of successful
completion of course of not less than one year
duration at a Government Technical College or
under a Government Department
(n) Commerce Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in two
subjects among Economics, Commerce,
Accountancy, Typing, Shorthand, Commerce
and Finance at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or
Senior School Examination; or
(ii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects
indicated above at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ;
or
(iii). Should have obtained a Certificate from a
Government Technical College for one year
Commerce Course
(o) Tamil Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Tamil
Language at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(p) Physical Education Course :
(ii) Should have obtained a teaching appointment in
Physical Education.
(q) Sociology Course :
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Social
Studies at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or Senior
School Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a ‘A’ or ‘B’ grade in Social
Studies at the N.C.G . E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects
among Geography, Economics, Political Science
and History at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(r) Second National Language (Sinhala / Tamil) Course :
Teachers who have obtained appointments for
Second National Language Sinhala / Tamil subjects
having qualifications indicated as in Para 7 (I) above
can apply for same.
08. A limited number of teachers from approved Director Managed
School or on the permanent staff of Government Approved Private
Schools, having a minimum of 20 hours of teaching during a week,
will be selected for training. The following categories of schools are
recognized for this purpose :
I. Assisted Schools which became Private fee-levying
Schools in 1951 ;
II. Schools which became Private Non-fee levying Schools
on 1960/12/01 ;
III. Private Schools and Pirivenas approved by the Ministry
of Education (Not by the Divisional / Provincial Directors
of Education).
All candidates who are teachers in Private schools
approved by the Ministry of Education should have a
minimum of one year continuous service on 31/12/2013
They should produce a letter from the Provincial / Zonal
Director of Education certifying their date of first
appointment and that the teacher belongs to the
approved staff of the school at the interview.
Pirivena Teachers should have minimum service of two
(02) years as on 31.12.2013 for this approved service
will be recognized under the Pirivena Act, of 1959 or
Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979.
At present, Pirivena teachers can apply only for the
courses in Sinhala, Science, Mathematics, English and
Buddhism. (They should obtain training in the subject
for which they were appointed.) In addition, teachers
who are applying from Vidyayathana Pirivenas can be
applied for Music, Art, Dancing, Commerce, Physical
Education and Agriculture.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools
and Pirivenas should submit a declaration by the
Managers at the interview with regards to the following.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
442
(i) that the teacher could be released from service for
the period of training ;
(ii) that the Teacher’s salary will be paid during the
period of training ;
(iii) that the Teacher could be re-employed by the
Management after completion of their training ;
(iv) that no request will be made for replacement of the
teachers selected for the training and that their
duties will be distributed among the other members
of the staff.
Teachers selected from Government Approved Private Schools
and Pirivenas, should sign an agreement before their registration to
the effect that “no requests will be made by them for employment in
Government Schools, after completion of their training”.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools should
submit the originals of their letters of appointment with the
endorsement of the Provincial Director of Education. In the case of
teachers who obtained their appointment before the age of 18 years,
their date of appointment will be made effective from the 18th
Birthday. The letter of appointment should be certified by the
Provincial Director of Education concerned, if it has been signed by
any other officer.
09. Application for selection
(I) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
Specimen given in this Gazette Notification :
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course ;
(b) Application form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8" X 12" (A4) size using both sides ;
(c) No alterations or deletions of any cage should be
done. Care should be taken to keep adequate space
between the cages and to avoid any over-crowding.
(II) Candidate should fill in the application properly. Incomplete
applications will be rejected. Special attention of the
candidates is drawn to the following :–
(a) Every candidate must give his / her name as registered in
the Department ;
(b) Application should be forwarded through the Head of
the School, Zonal Director of Education & Provincial
Director of Education if the candidate is a Head of a
School he / she should forward the application through
the Zonal Director of Education and the Provincial
Director of Education.
(c) Duly completed applications should be forwarded under
registered cover to “Director of Education, Teacher
Education Administration Branch, Ministry of
Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla” to reach on or before
04.04.2014. “ Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher
Education Courses in Teachers’ Colleges – 2013/2014”
and Name of the Course, Medium and the Zone should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application ;
Registered Post
“Selection of Teachers to follow
the Teacher Education Courses
in Teachers’ Colleges – 2013/2014”
Course : ...............
Medium : ...............
Zone : ...............
Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(d) Late applications will be rejected ; and –
(i) Applications will not be acknowledged ;
(ii) No other documents should be attached to the
application ;
(iii) Should be prepared to submit originals and certified
photocopies of all certificates and other documents at
the interview.
(III) Please note that a Weekend or Distance Teacher Training
Programme will not be commenced for Teacher Training in
Teachers’ Colleges for the year 2013/2014.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil or
English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
A
NURA DISSANAY AKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
14th March, 2014.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
443
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
MINISTRY OF EDUCA TION
SELECTION OF TEACHERS TO FOLLOW THE TEACHER EDUCATION COURSES IN TEACHERS’ COLLEGES – 2013/2014
01. Medium :
02. Date of assumption of duties :
according to the Letter of Appointment
03. Name of Course :
04. Category of First Appointment, Subject and Service / Grade held by you :
(a) Category of First Appointment :
(b) Subject :
(c) Service / Grade held by you (Indicate the appropriate number in the cage)
Sri Lanka Teacher Service - 01
Teacher Assistant - 02
Other (Please specify) - 03
(d) Grade :
05. If you are a teacher registered for the Distance Teacher Training Course / Weekend Teacher Training Course for Non-graduate Untrained
teachers and not completed ;
(i) Name of the Course:––––––––––––––.
(ii) Year :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Final Results :––––––––––––––.
06. Name with Initials(Write in Block Capital Letters. Write the name first and indicate the initials after the name.)
(Example :PERERA, A. B.)
Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms.  :––––––––––––––.
07. Names denoted by Initials(Write in Block Capital Letters) :––––––––––––––.
08. Gender – Male / Female : (Write the respective number in the cage)
Male - 1 Female - 2
09. National Identity Card Number :
10. ( a) Date of Birth :––––––––––––––.
(b) Age as on 31/12/2013 : Years :––––––––––––––,   Months :––––––––––––––,   Days :––––––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :  Residence :––––––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––––––.
12. E-mail address (if any) :––––––––––––––.
13. Private Address(Write in Block Capital Letters) :––––––––––––––.
14. Name of the Present Serving Station, Address, District and Zone (Write in Block Capital Letters) :
(i) Name of the Present Serving Station :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Address :––––––––––––––.
(iii) District :––––––––––––––.
(iv) Zone :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
444
(v) Nature of the Serving Station (Indicate the appropriate number in the cage)
(a) Government School  – 01
(b) Plantation School – 02
(c) Government approved Pirivena – 03
(d) Government approved Private School – 04
(e) Other – 05
15. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Results of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial No. Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(ii) Results of G .C.E.(A/L) Examination :
First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial No. Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
16. Service Particulars :
Serial No. Schools Served Period of Service Whether difficult or not
1.
2.
3.
17. Applicants’ Declaration :
(i) I declare that the above stated information is correct and true. I know that, if the information given by me found to be incorrect,
my application will be subjected to rejection and if any fault is revealed after the selection, I will be dismissed from the course.
(ii) I am presently not undergoing any type of institutional teacher training programmes.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
445
18. Principals’ Declaration :
(i) The number of teachers in the staff at present :––––––––––––.
(ii) The Number of Students :––––––––––––.
(iii) Whether the existing staff in the school will be sufficient for the number of students, if the teacher is released for the teac her
training :––––––––––––.
I certify that the above candidate is a teacher / teacher assistant serving in my school from ………………………………… up to
date and I have examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………………....………………..………………. if selected for the Teacher Training
Course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal and the Rubber Seal.
Date :––––––––––––.
19. I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms....................................... is a Teacher / Teacher Assistant, serving in …………………… …………
Vidyalaya of …………………………………………… zone from ………………………………………………………….. up to
date. He / She has assumed duties as per his / her first appointment letter dated ……………………………………….. I have examined
the particulars submitted by him / her in this application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. …………………....………………. if selected for the Teacher Training Course.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Zonal Director of Education and the Rubber Seal.
Date :––––––––––––.
20. I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms........................................ is a Teacher / Teacher Assistant, serving in ………………… …………
Vidyalaya of …………………………………… zone. I have examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this application and
certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………………………. if selected for the Teacher Training Course.
––––––––––––––––,
 Signature,
Provincial Director of Education and the Rubber Seal.
Date :––––––––––––.
03–364
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.