

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.10.2021
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2248$37 - 2021 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks nodod - 2021'10'06
No. 2248/37  -  WEDNESDAY ,   OCTOBER   06,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  PG 5569 -  445  (10/2021)
L.D.B. 2/1976 (iii)
SRI  LANKA  TEA  BOARD  LAW No. 14  OF  1975
REGULATIONS made by the Sri Lanka Tea Board under section 25 read with sections 4(2) (f) and 8 (1)  of the Sri Lanka
Tea Board Law No. 14 of 1975 and approved by the Minister of Plantation.
JAYAMPATHY MOLLIGODA,
Chairman,
Sri Lanka Tea Board.
Colombo,
10th September, 2021.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Sri Lanka Tea Board (Analysis and Quality Certification of Tea)
Regulations 2021.
2. Sri Lanka Tea Board (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’) shall establish and maintain an Analytical Laboratory
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Laboratory’) equipped with the necessary tests and other facilities to carry out scientific
testing using established methodologies on made tea and other forms of tea products for the purpose of analysis and
quality certification.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.10.2021
2A
3. The Board may appoint such officers and servants as are necessary for carrying out the activities in the Laboratory
as per the approved Scheme of Recruitment of the Board.
4. The authorized officers of the Board shall have the power under these regulations to enter a tea factory or any
other place where tea is stored to question and obtain statements and deal with any other forms of documents from any
identified party or parties and to attend sampling for the purpose of investigation and scientifically conformation of the
quality of tea by Laboratory.
5. The Board shall issue certificates or analytical reports, after inspection of operational activities of the tea
industry and after examining or analyzing of tea samples manufactured or derived from the plant Camellia sinensis L and
any other product or any other material or substance used or suspected to be intended for use in the manufacture, Production,
Processing or treatment on final product of tea for the following purpose :-
(a) to determine whether the made tea produced locally or imported or marketed or made  ready for delivery,
conforms to the chemical standards stipulated for tea by the institutions established for the purpose of
standardization nationally or internationally and ratified by the Board ;
(b) to determine the existence of the content of microbiological contamination, insect infestation, foreign matter
and any other contaminants, in made tea using established methodologies as stipulated by nationally or
internationally established institutions ;
(c) to determine whether residues of pesticide and other chemical substances found in made tea complies with -
(i) the specified pesticides and other chemical substances recommended by the Tea Research Institute or
other relevant government organizations or institutions of Sri Lanka ; and
(ii) the maximum Residue Limits (MRLs) of pesticides and other chemical substances stipulated by the
relevant Local Authorities of tea consuming countries or international bodies ;
(d) to certify whether the made tea is fit for human consumption ;
(e) to examine, analyze and certify any other quality parameters of made tea on the official request of tea
manufactures, tea brokers, tea exporters, tea importers, tea buyers, tea sellers or any other parties connected
to tea industry and tea consumers ;
(f) to determine the subtances and contaminants in ready to drink tea or any other by  products either in liquid
or solid form, based on the refused tea or made tea produced with prior approval of the Board ;
(g) to determine whether the made tea has met with required standards by examining and analyzing of tea
containing artificial or natural additives, which are ready for consumption ;
(h) to examine and determine any material or substance used or suspected to be intended for use in the
manufacture, Production, Processing or treatment of made tea ;
(i) to certify made tea under the analytical and quality parameters laid down by the Board ;
(j) to certify operational activities of authorized facilities in line with the final product of tea hygienically up
to dispatch or shipment ;
6. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations and knowingly furnishes false or incorrect
information and provide incorrect samples to the Board, shall be guilty of an offence under the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law
No. 14 of 1975.
7. These regulations shall apply to every person who obtains the services of the Laboratory.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.10.2021
3A
8. For the purpose of these regulations -
“additives” means substances which are added to any food, capable of inhabiting retarding or arresting the
process of fermentation, acidification or other decomposition of food ;
“authorized officer” means an officer authorized to excute the duties as directed by the Board for implementing
the provisions of these regulations ;
“Foreign matter” means external substance or substances which could be either harmful or not in the target
object ;
“International Organization for Standardization” means an Organization that sets standards in businesses and
technologies including computing and communications ;
“Insect infestation” means insect live persistently and in large numbers and damage the target object by way of
live or dead insects and their excretions or dead insects or their excretions ;
“local or International standards and guidelines” means all local or international standards and guidelines as
adopted or revised from time to time ;
“Made tea” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in the Sri Lanka Tea Board Law No. 14 of 1975 ;
“Maximum Residue Limit (MRL)” means the maximum concentration of residue of pesticides and other
chemical substances that is legally permitted or recognized as acceptable in or on a food, agricultural
commodity or animal feed as set by ‘Codex Alimentarious Commission’ or a national regulatory authority ;
“Microbiological Contaminants” means any substance that has been made impure by adding dangerous or
disease carrying microbes ;
“Pest” means any organism through direct or indirect action causes damage or loss to crops and harvest ;
“Pesticides” means substances intended for controlling, preventing, destroying, repelling and mitigating any
pest. ;
10-255
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.