

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
981
981
wxl 1"659 - 2010 cqks ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'06'18
No. 1,659 – FRIDAY , JUNE 18, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 984
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 986
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th June, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th June,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III, II and III of the Gazette No. 1,658 of 11.06.2010 were not published.
The list of veterinary Surgeons - 2009, has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in English Language.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
982
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
983
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
984
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th July, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
01st June, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division applications were called applications should be sent
Gampaha Mahara Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional
of Mahara Division and Marriage Registrar General District Secretariat
(General) of Siyane Koralaya West Gampaha
06-317
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
985
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th July, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
31st May, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Udunuwara Medapalatha Division and Re gistrar General District Secretariat
Marriages (Kandyan/General) in Udunuwara/ Kandy
Yatinuwara Division
06-295
––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th July, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
01st June, 2010.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
986
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division applications were called applications should be sent
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Kollupitiya Division Registrar General District
Secretariat, Colombo 12.
Colombo Colombo Post of Marriage Registrar (General) in District Secretary/Additional
Colombo (St. Sebestian Place) Division Registrar General District
Secretariat, Colombo 12.
06-316
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Candidates to follow the full time (Internal)
Course of Post Graduate Diploma in Education in Academic
Y ear - 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited for selection for the study of one year
full time (Internal) Post Graduate Diploma Course during the
academic year 2011.
02. This course will be held in Colombo, Peradeniya and Jaffna
Universities.
03. Course will be conducted in Sinhala and Tamil Medium.
Applications for the course can be made only in one medium.
Language mediums conducted in each universtiy are indicated
below :
University of Colombo - Sinhala Medium and Tamil Medium
Universtiy of Peradeniya - Sinhala Medium
University of Jaffna - Tamil Medium
04. Every candidates should establish that he/she is holding the
following qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should not be more than 50 years of age as on 18.07.2010.
(iii) Should be physically and mentally in good health and having
a good character.
(iv) Should be a graduate from a recognized university.
(v) Should have obtained a permanent appointment and serving
in a relevant post belonging to the following services :
(a) Sri Lanka teacher's service.
Sri Lanka private school teacher's service.
Sri Lanka Parivenacharya service
(b) Sri Lanka Principal's Service.
(c) Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service.
(d) Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service.
Note :
1. Teachers who are on study leave and serving under a bond
will be qualified to apply only if they have completed the
compulsory period of service indicated in the bonds as on
18.07.2010 or have completed at least five (5) years out
of the period.
2. Those having Bachelor of Education Degree will not be
eligible to apply for the study of this course.
3. Graduate teachers who apply for study of course at the
University of Peradeniya who have obtained their
appointment in year, 2005 or thereafter should have
completed the course of orientation of new graduate
teachers to the profession.
5.1 Method of Selection :
(i) Every candidate should appear for a written examination.
(ii) Candidates will be called for the interview according to
the order of marks obtained by them at the written
examination and the number to be called for the interview
will be three times the number of candidates to be admitted
for the course.
(iii) Marks will be allocated at the interview for the period of
service in the post of the service the candidates is
belonging to indicated at 4(v) in the Gazette Notification.
Marks will be allocated at the rate of 04 marks for each
year of service ; maximum number of marks granted will
be 40. Period of service of a candidate will be calculated
from the date he/she assumed duties in the post.
(iv) The total of the marks obtained at the written examination
and the marks for the period of service will be treated as
the final marks and the selection for the course will be
made according to the order of such marks.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
987
(v) If disabled candidates have applied for the course 1% of
the number of candidates selected will be reserved for
them.
(vi) The number of candidates to be selected for the course
will be decided according to the accommodation available
in each university.
5.2 Written Examination :
(i) The written examination for selection conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations will be held in
Sinhala and Tamil Languages in Colombo and Jaffna.
(ii) Candidates may appear for the examination at once of
the two centers indicated above preferred by them and in
a medium they prefer.
(iii) Candidates should act in accordance with the rules and
regulations published by the Commissioner General of
Examinations relating to the examination.
(iv) Written examination will consist of two question papers :
(a) General Knowledge.– Question Paper on Current
Affairs, General Knowledge, Educational
Information and problems (Time 01 hour) ;
(b) Aptitude Test.– Question Paper on Language ability,
comprehension, logic, arithmetical skills (Time 01
hour 30 minutes).
5.3 Interview :
(i) At the interview candidates should establish that they
are qualified to follow the course under Para. 04 in the
Gazette Notification.
(ii) Candidates should submit to the Interview Board the
documents required to establish their period of service in
the post/posts relevant at Para. 4(v) in the Gazette
Notification. Specially the date of assuming duties in the
Post should be established at the interview. It will be
helpful for the candidate in obtaining the marks assigned
for the period of service.
(iii) Teachers who apply for the course from Pirivenas and
approved Private Schools should submit a statement at
interview obtained from the Manager/Administrative
Board Manager certified by him as follows :–
(a) That the teacher will be released for the course ;
(b) That salaries will be paid to the teachers during the
period of study of the course ;
(c) That the teacher will be re-deployed at the end of the
course ;
(d) That a request will not be made for a substitute
teacher ;
(e) That the duties of the teacher will be distributed among
the approved teaching staff of the school.
06. Method for submission of applications :
(i) Applications should be prepared by using both sides of
A4 size paper in conformity with the given specimen
form.
(ii) Regarding applications made for candidates who are
visually impaired/hearing impaired/having other special
needs the words "An applicant visually impaired/hearing
imparied/having other special needs" should be written
in red on the top left hand corner of such applications.
(iii) Payment of Examination Fees.– As examination fees a
sum of Rs. 300 should be paid at the nearest post office
and the receipt obtained should be affixed in the cage
provided for in the application. Post Master General has
been notified by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to make provisions for the issue of this
receipt at all post offices from 18.06.2010 up to
18.07.2010.
(iv) Submission of applications :
(a) The words "Post Graduate Diploma in Education
(Internal) Course 2011" should be written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
(b) Applications should be sent under registered post
to be received on or before 18.07.2010 addressed to
Commissioner General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, Evaluation and Testing Service,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(v) Time table and the Admission Cards will be posted to
the candidates and if any candidate does not receive his
Admission Card at least 07 days before the date of the
examination he/she should inform accordingly to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla along with the
following information :–
(a) Name of examination ;
(b) Candidate's name in full ;
(c) Address ;
(d) Post office where fees were paid and receipt No. ;
(
e) Date of posting the application ;
(f) Post office of posting the application and Receipt
No.
(vi) Refund of examination fees or transfer of fees for any
other examination will be not be made for any reason
whatsoever.
(vii) Incomplete applications will be rejected without any
notification.
(viii) Every candidate should establish his identity at the
written examination by a valid identity card.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
988
(ix) It will not be allowed to change the university after
selecting candidates for a particular university for
following the course.
(x) Even after the selection, if it is revealed that a particular
candidate has not fulfilled the requirements according to
the Gazette Notification the selection of such candidate
is liable to be cancelled.
07. Study Leave.– Full pay and study leave will be granted to the
candidates to follow this course. For this purpose the study leave of
officers in Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service, Sri Lanka
Teacher Educators' Service and those serving in the staff of National
Schools, Private Schools and Pirivenas will be approved by the
Secretary of the Ministry of Education while the approval of study
leave of other officers should be made by the Provincial Secretary of
Education.
08. Bond.– Candidates who are selected for the course should
sign a security bond with the Secretary Education/Provincial Director
of Education that he/she will after successfully completing this course
serve in the Department for a minimum period of three and half
(3 1/2) years. When the cost of training is exceeding Rs. 10,000 the
compulsory period of service under the Security Bond will be decided
in accordance with the rules and regulations stipulated in the
Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
09. If any selected candidate fails to obtain his Diploma Certificate
within the stipulated period without successfully completing this
course owing to reasons within his control the salaries and allowances
paid to him during the period of study leave should be fully recovered
from him/her.
10. If the work, conduct and attendance of the students are found
to be unsatisfactory during the period of study of the course they
will be removed from the course.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil
or English Text of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
S
UNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Isurupaya, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
26th May, 2010.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
S
ELECTION OF CANDIDATES TO FOLLOW THE FULL TIME (INTERNAL) COURSE OF POST GRADUATE DIPLOMA IN EDUCATION - 2011
For office use
Medium applied for Examination center applied
(Sinhala/Tamil) (Colombo/Jaffna)
01. (i) Name with initials in English capital letters (Surname first) :––––––––––.
Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––.
Example : Mr. Silva, A. B. C.
(ii) Name in full (in English Capital letters) :––––––––––.
02. (i) Official address (in English capital letters) :–––––––––.
(ii) Private address (in English capital letters) :–––––––––.
(iii) Location of school/ institute serving (in English capital letters) :––––––––––.
Province District Zone
(iv) Nature of institute (Govt. school/private school/Pirivena/other) :––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
(ii) Age as on 18.07.2010 :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
989
04. Details of Degree :
Degree Period of study of Year of Date of Degree Nature of the Institute/ Degree
course in the passing validity of subjects pass (General/ University (Internal/
University (From ..... degree degree class) External)
To ...........)
05. (i) Post in the first appointment :..................... Date of first appointment :––––––––––.
(ii) Date of post ing to the post indicated in Section 04(v) in Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of assuming duties in the post :––––––––––.
(iv) Present Designation :––––––––––.
(v) Period of service in a post in Teacher's Service/Principal Service/Educational Administrative Service/Teacher Educators Service
on 18.07.2010 after obtaining the Degree :––––––––––.
06. (i) Details of Professional Training :
Institute of studying the Course (Subject Duration of Study of Course in the Institute
Course (Teacher's College/ Area)
NCOE or other) From To
(ii) Have you followed the course of orientation of new graduate teachers to the profession (This is only for Graduate teachers
appointed in year 2005 or thereafter) :––––––––––.
07. Details of study leave obtained :
Reason for study leave Duration of the Bond Balance period ahead for completion of Bond
From                  To
Note.– Period of study of the National Diploma in Teaching in a National College of Education will not be treated as study leave .
08. Whether any disciplinary action is pending against candidate ? (Yes/No) :––––––––––.
If so, details, should be given :––––––––––.
09. Receipt obtained for payment of fees to be I certify that a sum of Rs. 300 in figures was paid to
affixed here Post/Sub Post Office :––––––––––.
Under receipt No. :–––––––––. Dated :––––––––––.
Signature of the Candidate.
10. Candidate’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that all details indicated in this application are true and correct and I am eligible to study this course under paragraph
04 in Gazette Notification dated 18.06.2010 and I will abide by the rules and regulations in the Examination Act for candidates and also
I have affixed hereto a valid receipt for payment of the prescribed examination fees.
–––––––––––––––,
Candidate’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.06.2010
990
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
11. Recommendation relating to release from this institute for the Course :
(Principal/President NCoE/Manager/Manager Administrative Board or Head of Department) :
If the above candidate is selected for the study of this Course he/she can be released/cannot be released in consideration of t he
requirement of the study of a Professional Course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Head of Institute and Official Frank.
Date :––––––––––.
12. Recommendation of the Zonal Director of Education :
If the above candidate is selected for the study of this course he/she can be released.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Zonal Director of Education and Official Frank.
Date :––––––––––.
06–304