

<!-- page 1 -->

161 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
161
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 164
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 166
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 9th March, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 23rd February, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,487 _ 2007 ˜åÚ”º  02 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .03.02
No. 1,487 – FRIDAY , MARCH 02, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,486 of 23.02.2007 was not published.
N. B.- (i) Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of January 12, 2007.
(ii) Debits Tax (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of January 12, 2007.
(iii) Finance (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka of January 12, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
162
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

163 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
164
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  FISHERIES  AND AQUATIC
RESOURCES  DEPARTMENT  OF  FISHERIES  AND
AQUATIC  RESOURCES
Post of Director (Monitoring and Surveillance)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from applicants who possess
the qualifications stipulated in this notification for the post of Director
(Monitoring and Surveillance) of the Department of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources which is under the purview of the Ministry of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources. Applications prepared in terms of
the specimen application form appended at the end of this notification
should be sent by registered post to reach the “Director General”
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, New Secretariat,
Maligawatta, Colombo 10 on or before 03.04.2007.
02. The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should be marked “Application for the post of Director
(Monitoring and Surveillance)”. Applications of those who do not
have the stipulatd qualifications and, incomplete applications and,
late applications will be rejected without any notice. Applications
will not be akcnowledged. No complaint regarding loss of applications
or any document related thereto in the post will be entertained.
Therefore, applicants are advised to post their applications well
ahead of time in order to avoid delays in the post.
2.1 Applications should be prepared in terms of the specimen
application form appended at the end of this notification on
paper size 21cm x 29.6cm. It should be noted that the
application forms should be so prepared that cages 1 to 7
appear on the first page, 8 to 12 appear on the second page
and the balance appear on third page inclusive of three pages.
2.2 Applicants who are presently in the Government service/
Provincial Government service should send their applications
through their respective Heads of Departments/Institutions
to reach the address given in para I before the closing date.
No application should be sent to the private name of the
“Director General of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources”
or of any other officer of the Department.
03. Age Limit .— Should be not less than 35 years and not more
than 45 years of age as at closing date of applications. (The maximum
age limit will not apply to those who are already in government
service.)
04. Educational Qualifications :-
For External candidates
(a) A Degree with First Class or Second Class Division from
a recognized university with one of the following subjects.
Physics, Bio Science, Social science, Geography,
Economics, Commerce, Development  and Business
management/Administration.
and ;
Obtained a post graduate degree/Post graduate diploma in
Fisheries Industry or in above subjects.
or
(b) An officer should be in class I of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service and obtained a degree from a recognized university.
For Internal Candidates
Post Graduate Degree in Fisheries Industry or in one of
the following subjects.
Physics, Bio Science, Social Science, Geography,
Economics, Commerce, Development & Business
management/Administration from a recognized university.
05. Professional Qualifications .—
(a) For External candidates
Completed 18 years in a post graduated staff level post or
20 years in a post graduated diploma staff level post in the
fields of Fisheries Industry or surveillance & Air Rescue
Service at a Government Department, a university, a public
corporation or a recognized business body.
(b) For Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Should be a class I officer in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service & completed minimum 15 years in the service.
For Internal candidates
Completed 18 years in a post graduated staff level post or
20 years in a post graduated diploma staff level Post in the
fields of Fisheries Industry or Surveillance and Air Rescue
Service.
06. Salary Group & Scale .— As per Public Administration
Circular No. 9/2004 - TB 7-1, the Consolidated salary for this post
is Rs. 276,540-10x11,800-395,340/-. The qualified candidate who is
recruited to this post will be paid on salary scale approved by Salary
& Cadre Committee in terms of circular No. 6/2006.
07. The scheme of recruitment.— The most qualified candidate
will be selected through a structured interview by calling qualified
candidates to a structured interview. The marking scheme system for
structured interview and appointment of the structured Interview
Board will be done by the Public Service Commission.
08. Conditions of Service :-
(a) This post is Permanent and the holders are entitled to a
Contributory Pension under the Contributory Pensions
Fund.
Exception
If a person who has served in a pensionable post before
01.01.2003 is recruited to this post such persion will be
entitled to a pension under Minute on Pensions and
should contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions
Fund.
(b) The appointees should be physically fit to serve in any
part of Sri Lanka.
(c) Sections 10 to 12 in chapter II of the Establishments
Code will apply.
(d) All candidates should be Sri Lankan citizens. “Sri Lankan”
means by a person who has acquired Sri Lankan
citizenship by descent or by registration.
09. The right not to fill vacancy and the right to exercise
discretionary power on any matter not refferred to in this notice,
will remain with the appointing authority.
10. Identity of Candidates .—  Every candidate should be required
to prove his/her identity at the interview. For this purpose any of
the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A Passport issued not earlier than 05 years.

<!-- page 5 -->

165 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
Any other document or photograph will not be accepted
for this purpose.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information .— If a candidate is
found to be ineligible his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the interview. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate are found to be false within his/her knowledge
or if he/she has will fully suppressed any material fact he/she will be
liable to be dismissed from the Public Service.
By order of Public Service Commission.
G. P
IYASENA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources.
Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources,
New Secretariat,
Maligawatta,
Colombo 10.
................. July 2006.
Specimen Application Form
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Post of Director (Monitoring and Surveillance)
For office Use
01. (i) Last name with initials :————.
(ii)Names denoted by initials :————.
(iii)Name with initials (In English) :————.
(eg.:- Mr/Mrs/Miss. Silva A. B.)
02.  Permanent Address :————.
(i) Private :————.
(any change of address to which the Admission card should
be sent, should be notified immediately)
(ii)Official :————.
Telephone No :————.
03. Date and Place of Birth :————.
Age on the closing date of applications :
Years :————. Months :————.  Days :————.
04. National Identity Card No:-
Date fo Issue :-
05. Whether a Citizen of Sri Lanka :————.
(If so, State whether by descent or by registration)
06. (i) Sex :—
Female - F            Male - M
(ii)Married :—
Unmarried :—
Widow :—
(Indicate mark "       "   in the relevent cage)
07. Educational, Professional and Technical Qualifications :— — — .
(Indicate all examinations passed with grades obtained,
particulars of professional or techincal qualifications with the
dates issued and institutions which issued certificates, subjects
offered and class obtained)
Examination/ Year Subjects Class Name of School
Degree offered Institution/
University
08. If employed in Public service/provincial public service in a
Staff post, please give details. (it is not necessary to mention
the service below a staff level post) :————.
(i) The present post and address of the work place :————.
(ii)Date of enrolment in service, posts held :————.
(with the salary scales) Dates of appointment to such post)
Post held From - To Salary Scale Period of
Service
(iii)Date of confirmation in your appointment :————.
(iv) (a)Have you been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment? (if so, indicate the offence committed, the
nature and the date of punishment) :————.
(b) Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you?
:————.
09. Other qualifications :————.
10. Have you been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal
offence? if so, State the dates case No, and complete
details. (if the case has been concluded, indicate the verdict
given) :————.
11. Have you been dismissed from public service? If so, give
details :————.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that should any
information furnished by me in this  application are found to be
incorrect of false. I am liable to disqualification before selection
and to dismissal without any compensation, if the inaccuracy is
detected after the appointment.
————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :————.
(This section is applicable only to persons who are already
employed)
(a) Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution.
(i) I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss…………………
(Name) is presently employed by ………………
(Name of the Department/Institution) as ……… (Post
held) that he/she is eligible to apply for the post of
“Director (Monitoring and Surveillance)” of the
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic resources in terms
of the Gazette notification dated ……… 200, and that
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
166
(ii)That he/she has earned all salary increments due during
the period of ………… years ended on ………200.......
and that he/she has not been subjected to any
disciplinary action (except warnings) ; and
(iii)That I have checked the information he/she has given in
his/her application and have found them to be accurate.
MINISTRY  OF  EXPORT  DEVELOPMENT  AND
INTERNATIONAL  TRADE
Posts of Assistant Director of Commerce in the
Department of Commerce
APPLICATIONS are invited for posts of Assistant Directors of
Commerce in the Department of Commerce under the Ministry of
Export Development and International Trade. Applications as per
the form appended to this notification should be sent by registered
post to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organization and External Examination Branch,
Palawatta, Battaramulla to reach on or before 21.04.2007.
Note .—  Late applications or appeals  in respect of applications loss
in the post will not be considered.
02. Terms of engagement .— The post is permanent and
pensionable. Contributions should be made to the widows' and
orphans'/widowers’ and orphans’ pension fund.
03. Salary scale.— (SL1) : Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x
1,050 - 53,555 per month.
Efficiency Bar .—There are two Efficiency Bars. The first
Efficiency Bar should be passed within three years from the date of
appointment and the second within seven years from the date of
appointment. Officers will not be exempted from Efficiency Bars on
completion of 45 years of age.
A written examination for the first Efficiency Bar Examination
will be held by Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
(SLIDA). Please see the Annexure I for the details of the Exam.
The 2nd Efficiency Bar requires completion of post graduate
degree or post graduate diploma in Economics, Finance, Business
Administration or International Trade or successful completion of a
specialized training course conducted by the World Trade Organization
(WTO) in above subjects to which the basic qualification for entry is
a first degree.
04. Foreign Service .— Officers are liable to be posted for service
abroad from time to time and they will be entitled to an allowance
approved by the Government.
05. Educational Qualification .— Every candidate must furnish
satisfactory proof that he/she-
(i) possesses a First Class or Second Class Honours Degree
in Economics, Commerce, Business or Public
Administration of recognized University or a first Class
or Second Class Degree with Economics or Commerce of a
recognized University ; or
(ii)possesses M. Sc or Ph. D. Degree in Economics,
Commerce, Business or Public Administration of a
recognized University ; or
(iii) is a graduate of a recognized University and possess a
Professional qualification in Law equivalent  to that of
Attorney-at-Law of the Sri Lanka Law College or other
recognized institution and with at least 3 years experience
in Legal, Administrative or Commercial matters ; or
(iv) is a graduate of recognized University with a Professional
Qulification in Accountancy, Equivalent to the membership
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lnaka  or
other recognized Institution and with at least 3 years
experience in Legal, Administrative or Commercial matters.
Note .— These Candidates should have satisfied all eligibility
requirements by the closing date of applications.
06. Age Limit .— Not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age on the closing date of the applications. Upper age limit
will not apply to the applicants who are already in Public or Provincial
Public Service.
07. Method of Recruitment .— A written competitive examination
will be held by the Commissioner General of Examination in Colombo
for candidates who possess the basic qualifications in accordance
with the scheme and syllabus of examination. The interview will be
confined only to verify the qualification and certificates.
Examination Procedures :
1. Intelligence Test - 100 marks - 1 hour paper
2. Commerce and Economics - 100 marks - 2 hours paper
3. English Paper - 100 marks - 2 hours paper
Syllabus .— Intelligence Test — This is designed to provide an
assessment of the Candidate’s  power of logical  reasoning and analysis
and ability to draw sound inferences. The question paper will be of
the multiple choice type.
General Paper Commerce and Economics .— This paper is
designed to test the Candidate’s awareness of the Commercial and
Economic Environment both in Sri Lanka and Abroad.
English Paper .—  This paper is designed to assess the knowledge
or candidates in grammar, vocabulary and comprehension.
(b) If this person is selected for appointment, he/she can be
released/cannot be released from service.
————,
Signature of the Head of the Department/
Institution (official Stamp).
Designation  :————.
Date :————.
03-142
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 7 -->

167 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
08. (i) The application should be in the language in which the
Candidate intends to sit the examination. (on A4 paper with
headings 1 to 9 in the first page)
(ii)The application will not be acknowledged.
(iii) A notice will be published in the newspapers as soon as
Admission Cards are issued to applicants who have
submitted duly prefected applications before the closing
date of such applications. A candidate who does not receive
his Admission Card at least seven days before the day of the
examination should notify the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Exams Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla.
(a)  Name of the Examination.
(b) Full Name of the Candidate.
(c) Address.
(d) Date of Posting of the application, registration number
and post office.
(iv) It is essential to write the name of the examination in English
in addition to Sinhala or Tamil languages.
09. Examination Fees .— The examination fee is Rs. 300. The fee
can be paid to any District/Divisional Secretariat in credit of revenue
vote No. 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examination and the receipt must be fixed to the application in the
appropriate place and include the details as well. It is desirable to
retain a copy of the cash receipt. The fee will not be refunded or
transferred for another examination under any circumstances.
10. Examination :
(i) The date of examination will be notified later.
(ii)Public Service Commission has the right to cancel or
postpone the examination.
11. Applications from officers in the Public Service must be
forwarded through the  respective Heads of their Departments. They
may however, notify direct to the Commissioner General of
Examinations the date of dispatch by them of their application to
reach him on or before the closing date.
12. Applications or any other communication relating thereto
must be addressed to the Commissioner General of Examinations
and not personally to any officer in the Department of Examination.
13. Reference is invited to the General Conditions applicable to
appointments to posts in the State Service published at the beginning
of Part I Section (IIA) of the Gazette.
14. Admission to the Examination :-
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all applicants who possess the required
qualifications. A candidate presenting for the exmination
must produce the admission card with duly certified signature
to the Supervisor of the examination centre. A candidate
who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted
to sit the examination.
(b) A Candidate must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. All candidates should handover their
admission card to the supervisor of the examination hall on
the first day of the examination. A set of rules to be observed
by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note : The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.
15. Identity of Candidates .— A candidate will be required to
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid Passport
16. Penalty for furnishing false information .— if a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
Stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his knowledge, or
if he has willfully suppressed any material fact he will be liable to
dismissal from the Public Service/cancellation of appointment.
17. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Secretary, Public Service Commission.
18. Scheme of Examination :
(a) The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in
which he/she passed the qualifying examination or in the
official language.
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying
examination in more than one language should sit the
examination in the language in which he/she passed the
majority of subjects at such examination or in the official
language.
(d) A candidate with a special degree who has passed the
principal subject in one  language and the subsidiary subject
in another language should sit the examination in the language
in which he/she passed the principal subject or in the official
language.
Note : (i) The term “Qualifying Examination in (b) and (c) above
refers to the qualification referred to in Paragraph 5.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in
one language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
of language.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
168
19. Candidates should be prepared to produce the following
documents when called upon to do so :-
(a) Certificate of Registration of Birth.
(N. B. - Baptismal Certificate or Certificate of Birth issued
for the purpose of the code of Regulations for assisted
Schools will not be accepted).
(b) Degree or higher Educational Certificate.
(c) Two Certificates of Character, one of which should be
from the Director of Education or from the Tutor or
Professor of the University.
(d) Certificates of Professional and/or Technical
Qualifications.
(e) Certificate of Highest Examinations passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English.
Note : (i) No documents or Certificates of documents should be
attached to the application forms.
(ii)When it is required to furnish the relevant documents, if
any candidate fails to do so, such candidate would not be
considered for the post.
20. Method of selection for appointment.— In the instances where
several candidates have socred equal marks, suitable decision regarding
such instances will be taken by the Secretary, Public Service
Commission. The decision will be final. The selection for
appointments will be made from those who have scored highest
marks at the written examination.
21. Public Service Commission reserves the right to refrain from
filling the vacancies or to fill all or any of the vacancies.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
S. R
ANUGGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Export Development
and International Trade.
Ministry of Export Development and International Trade,
6th Floor,
'Rakshana Mandiraya',
Colombo 02.
Annexure I
First Efficiency Bar Examination
This is a written examination. There are two question papers which
will cover following subjects.
1. Finance and Management - (2 hours - 100 marks)
(a) Public Finance and Tender Procedure. Knowledge on
Chapters 5, 6, 13 of the Financial Regulations.
(b) 2nd Chapter of the Establishment Code.
2. Modern Economic development in Sri Lanka, knowledge on
International Trade and Trade Policy of the Government-
(2 hours - 100 marks)
Each candidate should score minimum of 40% marks for each
subject to pass the exam.
The two subjects may be offered and completed on one and
the same occasion or separately.
This examination will be held by the Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Posts of  Assistant Director of Commerce
(For office use only)
(N. B.- The envelope enclosing the application form should be clearly
marked “Application for the Post of Assistant Director of Commerce
in the Department of Commerce”on the top left hand corner).
01. (i) Name with initials (in Capital letters) :———.
(Initials must be written after the name)
(E. g.) Silva, E. B)
(ii)Names denoted by initials :———.
(iii)Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
02. Postal address :———.
(any change of address should be notified immediately for the
admission cards to be posted to this address) :———.
03. National Identity Card Number :
04. Medium of Language (in which the candidate is sitting for the
exam) :
(Sinhala -2 , Tamil -3, English - 4)
Write the number in this cage :-
05. Date and place of birth :———.
Year :               Month :               Date :
(i) Place of Birth :———.
(ii)Age in terms of the Gazette Notification :
Years :                        Months :              Days :
06. Ethnic Group :-
Sinhala 1
Sri Lankan Tamil 2
Indian Tamil 3
Muslims 4
Burghers 5
Malay 6
Others 7
(Please write the No. in this cage)

<!-- page 9 -->

169 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
07. Residential District :———.
08. State whether married  single, widow or widower :———.
09. (a) Educational Qualifications :
(Please give details of all degrees, distinctions, professional
and technical qualifications, etc. with dates, class secured, if
any subjects offered and names of institutions)
Examination/Degree Year Subjects
(b) Highest examination passed in -
1 Sinhala 2. Tamil 3. English
1.
2.
3.
10. Schools, Colleges and other Institutions attended since the age
of 12 years :
General Education
School or College From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Professional Education
Institution From To
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
11. Particulars of any sports distinctions gained and any posts of
responsibility that you have held in that sphere :———.
12. (a) Are you free from pecuniary embarrassment? If not what
is the extent of your commitments :———.
(b) Have you been charged for any criminal offence in   a court
of law? ............... If so, state full particulars with dates,
quoting numbers of cases :———.
13. Present occupation and previous appointments, if any :..........
(Date of engagement and the last annual salary received should
be included)
Post From To Annual Salary (Rs.)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Important - Cause of termination of employment under Government
should be indicated in cage 15 below :
14. Special qualifications :———.
(Do you possess the special qualifications and/or experience
specified in the notifications):
If so, please give full details thereof, with dates  Please see the
special requirements, if any, stipulated in the Gazette
notification) :
15. Any other further particulars :———.
16. Receipt No. :———.
(Annex the receipt properly)
District/Divisional Secretariat :———.
Date :———.
17. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection and to dismissal without any
compensation to me if the inaccuracy is detected after the
appointment.
———,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
Report of the Head of the Department, if the Candidate is in the
Public Service
I certify that the information given in the para. 14 above is correct/
should be revised as follows, his/her work and conduct are..... /He/
she can be released /cannot be released from the present post.
———,
Signature of Head of Department/Institution.
Designation :———.
Date :———.
03-171

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
170
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR
PRELIMINARY GRADE   MEDICAL  OFFICERS AND
DENTAL SURGEONS – MARCH, 2007
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for
Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which
should be passed by them before promotion to grade II in terms of
Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Officers in the Health Services,
published in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No.662/11 of 17.05.1991
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, will be held on
25.03.2007 in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The venue and the
time of the examination will be notified  along with the Admission
Card.
02. Qualifications.- Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and
Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.- Applications prepared by the candidates as
per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under Registered
cover to reach the  Director (Examinations) “Suwasiripaya” No.
385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10,
on or before 09.03.2007 through their Heads of Institutions. The
Head of Division should certify the accuracy of contents in each
application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches,
affixed with stamps to the  value of Rs.4.50 should be sent along
with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private
address) Applications which are received late, incomplete or inaccurate
will be rejected.
04. Examination fees :-
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per
subject  in the stamps cage provided for in the application
and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii)The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any
other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination :-
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be
issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the  Supervisor at the Examination
centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the
examination.
(ii)Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor
at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card,
(b) Departmental Identity Card,
(c) Driving License,
(d) Passport.
06.Scheme of the Examination : The examination will consist of
three  written question papers, and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce test.
Each part will receive 100 marks. Candidates should score a minimum
of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be completed
at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :—
7.1 Written Examination
7.1.1 Establishments Code
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight
(08) questions. Total marks 100.
Syllabus
(i) Establishments Code
(a) Part I – Chapters
II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV ,
XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII,
(b) Part II – Chapters XLVII and XLVIII
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health
Services
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries
Duration 1 ½ hours. Total Marks 100. Should answers
four (04) questions out of Seven (07) questions.
Syllabus
Health Manual
Part I – Medical Services
Part II – Laboratory Services
7.1.3 Accounts
Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions out
of 07 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus
(i) Financial Regulations – Part I
Chapter I - AII Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department
of Health Services

<!-- page 11 -->

171 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
(iii) Sections of Finance in the manual of the Department
of Health Services
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine
duties of a Medical Officer of Health
07.2 Viva Voce – Sinhala/Tamil
The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services
will conduct this Examination in Colombo to examine
the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Totoal
Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters
pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
08. The information is also available in the Web Site –
www. Health.gov.lk
Dr. U. A. A
JITH M ENDIS ,
Acting Director General of Health Services,
For Secretary of Health.
Ministry  of Health, Nutrition and Welfare,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, V en. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mw.
Colombo 10.
13th February, 2007.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
Departmental Examination for Preliminary  Grade
Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons – March 2007
01.(a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials
at the end) :——.
(ii)Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials
at the end) :——.
(iii)Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals)
(b) (i) Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :———.
(ii)Date of Internship appointment :———.
(iii)Date of appointment to the preliminary Grade :———.
02. Subjects Offered (Mark "     "  within the cages against the
subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the
subjects not offered)
Administration of Hospitals and Accounts
Dispensaries
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva V oce
Tamil Viva V oce
03. (a) Present Station :———.
(b) District of the Present Station :———.
(c) Examination center preferred (If sufficient number of
candidates are not available any examination center action
will be taken to refer them to the closest examination Center.
Mark “          ” in the relevant cage.
Colombo Kandana Mullierivawa
Kaluthara G alle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(d) Whether a self – addressed envelop in the size of 9 x 4 inches
with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 5.00 has been attached
to the application to post the Admission Card ?
(e) (i) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala/
Tamil) :———.
(ii)Postal Address to Post the Admission Card (In English
Capitals) :———.
04. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil)
:———.
05. (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :—.
(b) It not so, have you affixed stamps to the application?:—.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate  of the candidate :-
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and  accurate to my knowledge
and I need not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for
the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs…..
since I repeat the Examination, * and the stamps affixed
by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by
the Department of Health for the conduct of this
Examination and if I was found ineligible in accordance
with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever
decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
.........................,
Signature of the Candidate
...................2007
Date

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
172
07. Certification of Head of Institution
∗Mr/Mrs/Miss….........................is well know to me and he/she
* sits the Examination for the first time/repeats the Examination *
he/she * need not affix stamps /has affixed stamps to the value of
Rs…................ To the application and he/she * placed his/her*
signature in my presence.
.........................,
Signature of Head of
Institution/Frank/Rubber
...................2007
Date
Stamp
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized unit/specialized Campaign
*Mr/Mrs/Miss...............…. Serves as a Medical Officer/Dental
Surgeon * in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars furnished
by him/her* in the application are correct in accordance with the
particulars available in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to
sit for the Examination.
.........................,
Signature of Head of
Decentralized Unit/Specialized
campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp)
...................2007
Date
03-89

<!-- page 13 -->

173 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.02
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2007
174
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
MARCH 02.03.2007 Friday — 15.02.2007 Thursday 12 noon
09.03.2007 Friday –– 23.02.2007 Friday 12 noon
16.03.2007 Friday –– 02.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
23.03.2007 Friday –– 09.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
30.03.2007 Friday –– 16.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 05.04.2007 Thursday — 23.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
12.04.2007 Thursday –– 30.03.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.04.2007 Friday –– 05.04.2007 Thursday 12 noon
27.04.2007 Friday –– 12.04.2007 Thursday 12 noon
MAY 04.05.2007 F riday — 20.04.2007 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2007 F riday –– 27.04.2007 Friday 12 noon
18.05.2007 Friday –– 04.05.2007 F riday 12 noon
25.05.2007 Friday –– 11.05.2007 F riday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN    GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.