

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
ශී  ලංකා  පජාතාන්තික  සමාජවාදී   ජනරජෙය්  ගැසට්  පතය 
අති විෙශෂ   
අංක 2225/5 - 2021 අෙපේල් මස 27 වැනි අඟහරුවාදා - 2021.04.27 
 
  No.. 2225/5 –  TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 2021 
EXTRAORDINARY 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  — GENERAL 
 
Government  Notifications 
 
1A - G 34237 — 27 (2021/04)  
 6th AMENDMENT 
 
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service 
 
THE Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1670/33 dated 
10th of September 2010 as amended by the Gazettes Extraordinary No. 1695/15 dated 01 st of March 2011, No. 1865/36 
dated 06th of June 2014, No. 1981/99 dated 27 th of August 2016, No. 2070/7 dated 09 th of May 2018 and No. 2137/66 
dated 22nd of August 2019 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is amended as follows. Other matters and 
conditions stated therein remain unchanged. 
 
By order of the Public Service Commission, 
 
M. A. B. DAYA SENARATH, 
Secretary, 
Public Service Commission. 
 
22nd  March, 2021. 
 
 
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications: 
 
(ii)  Should be a holder of Higher Diploma in Accountancy or Commerce or Higher National Diploma in 
Management from the Sri Lanka Technical College/ Sri La nka Institute of Advanced Technical Education/ Sri 
Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education; 
 
(iii) Should have passed the Licentiate II or Intermediate Examination or Certificate II in Accounting and Business 
or Business Level Examination or Business Level II Exam ination or a higher examination of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or an Institute of Chartered Accountants in any other Commonwealth 
Country; 
 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.04.27 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2021 
(viii) Should have passed the Management Level or a hi gher level examination of the Institute of Certified 
Management Accountants of Sri Lanka. 
 
7.2.2.5 Others: Section (III) will be removed. Other matters remain unchanged. 
 
7.2.4.1  Written Examina tion: Matters pertaining to the written examin ation for recruitment under open stream are 
stated in Appendix I. 
 
(The table stated under 7.2.4.1 will be removed.)  
 
7.3.2.5 Others:  
 
(iii) Should not have been subject to a disciplinary pun ishment in terms of the provisions in Public Service 
Commission Circular No. 01/2020 as at the date of examining the qualifications for promotion. 
 
Note:- 
 
 The Sections No. 7.3.2.6 and 7.3.2.7 of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service published in 
English language in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010 ar e amended as 7.3.3 and 7.3.3.1 
respectively. 
 
7.3.3.1  Written Examination: Matters pertaining to the wr itten examination for recruitment under limited stream are 
stated in Appendix I. 
 
(The table stated under 7.3.3.1 will be removed.) 
 
Following note will be inserted below the paragraphs in 7.2.4.4.1, 7.3.3.4.1 and 7.4.3.3.1. 
 
Note: This Board of Interview shall consist of five public officers appointed by the Public Service Commission. 
 
 
  10.1. Promotion from Grade III to Grade II  
 10.1.1.1.   Requirements to be fulfilled 
 
 
 (v)  Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in terms of the provisions in Public Service 
Commission Circular No. 01/2020 as at the date of examining the qualifications for promotion. 
 
 10.2. Promotion from Grade II to Grade I  
 10.2.1.1.  Qualifications  to be completed:   
  
 (iii)  Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in terms of the provisions in Public Service. 
Commission Circular No. 01/2020 as at the date of examining the qualifications for promotion. 
 
15. The number of persons to be recruited to Grade III of the Service in a year is the number of vacancies existing 
in that grade as at the 31st of December of the previous year. 
 
The Appendix I stated below will be substituted in place of the existing Appendix I. 
 
APPENDIX I 
 
Particulars of Open/ Limited Competitive Examination for appointments of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service 
 
 01. Scheme of Examination and Syllabus: 
The Common Competitive Examination for filling up of vacancies in Grade III of the Executive Service 
Category is applicable to this examination. The Commissioner General of Examinations will conduct this 
examination. Only the candidates who obtain more than 40% of marks for each paper and aggregate marks of 
100 or more for the First Part (Common Part) of that competitive examination will be called for the Second Part 
of the examination above. 
 
 (a) First Part (Common Part) of the Common Competitive Examination for filling up of vacancies in Grade III of 
the Executive Service Category 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.04.27 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2021 
(I)  Summary 
 
(II) Syllabus 
 
 (b)  Second Part of the Common Competitive Examination for f illing up of vacancies in Grade III of the Executive  
Service Category (Specific Part for the recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants Service) 
 
(I)  Summary 
Question Paper Duration Nature of the Question Paper 
Intelligence Test 1 ½ Hours 100 marks, Shall consis t of multiple-choice questions and/ or short an-
swer type questions. 
Pass mark is 40. 
Comprehension 02 Hours 100 marks, Shall consist of multiple-choice questions and/ or short an-
swer type questions. 
Pass mark is 40. 
Intelligence Test 
 
Shall consist of multiple-choice questions to test candidate’s skills in reasoning, substitution,  
interpretation, relevance awareness, conversion, problem solving, understanding of cause &  
effect relationships, prediction, information organization, pattern identification and adherence to instructions. 
Comprehension 
Shall consist of objective type questions to test candida te’s ability in comprehension and skills in communication, 
summarization, analysing and creativity. 
Question Paper Duration Nature of the Question Paper 
Financial and Managerial Account-
ing 
03 Hours 100 marks, Pass mark is 40.  
(This Question Paper shall consist 
of 02 parts) 
(60 marks for the Part I 
40 marks for the Part II) 
  
Advanced Auditing and Economic 
Analysis 
03 Hours 100 marks, Pass mark is 40.  
(This Question Paper shall consist 
of 02 parts) 
(60 marks for the Part I 
40 marks for the Part II) 
  

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.04.27 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2021 
  
(II) Syllabus 
 
Financial and Managerial Accounting 
(This question paper shall consist of 02 parts and 08 questions) 
Part I – Financial Accounting 
This part includes five (05) questions. Question one is compulsory and balance two (2) questions have to be selected 
out of four (04) questions. All questions carry equal marks. 
  
1. Compulsory Question 
 
This question is to measure the candidate’s ability to apply Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS). The ques-
tion has five sub parts, each question carries 04 marks. 
  
Following Sri Lanka Accounting Standards are covered under this question. 
 
* Financial Statements – LKAS 1 
 
* Property, Plant and Equipment – LKAS 16 
 
* Revenue – LKAS 18 
 
* Cash Flow Statement – LKAS 7 
 
* Inventories – LKAS 2 
 
* Accounting Policies, Changes in accounting estimates and errors – LKAS 8 
 
* Events after the reporting period – LKAS 10 
 
* Leases- LKAS 17 
 
* Income Taxes – LKAS 12 
 
* Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets – LKAS 37 
 
* Financial Instruments – LKAS 39 
 
2. Conceptual and regulatory framework for Financial Statements 
  
Objectives of general purpose financial statements , Underlying assumptions, Qualitative characteristics of 
financial statements, Elements of financial statements, Recognition and measurement of elements of finan-
cial statements, Concepts of capital and capital main tenance, Provisions in Co rporate governance, Compa-
nies Act and Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and rulings 
  
3. Financial Statements of Limited Liability Companies including Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
Identify the sources of funds available for a limited lia bility company, prepare ledg er accounts for issue and 
redemption of shares and debentures and prepare financial statements for the purpose of management and pub-
lication 
 
4. Preparation of Financial Statements for non- profit organizations 
 
5. Financial statement analysis, interpretation and communication of Financial Results, and Non- financial reporting 
Part II – Managerial Accounting 
  
This part includes three (03) questions prepared to m easure the candidate’s knowledge on following areas and candi-
dates should answer 02 questions. All questions carry equal marks. 
  
1. Aspects of Cost Accounting 
Cost classification, Behavior, Estimation, Material and inventory control, Labour, Specific and continuous 
order costing 
  
2. Cost Accounting Systems 
Absorption costing and marginal costing, Activity-based costing, Process costing, Throughput Accounting and 
Contemporary Management Accounting 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

5A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.04.27 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2021 
    
3. Financial mathematics for business and project appraisal fundamentals 
Compounding, Discounting 
4. Standard costing and Variance analysis 
 
5. Mathematics for business functions 
  
  
 
 
 
 
6. Budgeting and Forecasting 
Budgeting, Budget preparation and Budgetary control 
7. Decision making under uncertainty 
Information for short-term and long-term decision maki ng, Cost-volume-profit analysis, Further processing  
pricing and Multi-constraint decision making 
8. Working Capital Management 
Advanced Auditing and Economic Analysis 
(This question paper shall consist of 02 parts and 08 questions) 
  
 
Part I – Advanced Auditing 
 
This part includes 05 questions prepared to measure the candidate’s knowledge on following areas and candi-
dates should answer 03 questions. All questions carry equal marks. 
  
1. Different types of audit and objectives of such audits 
 
Financial audit, Systems audit, Compliance audit, Value for money audit, Performance audit, Forensic 
audit, Internal audit, External audit, Management audit etc. 
  
2. Audit Planning and Control 
 
Audit planning, timing, interim and final audit, assignments of responsibilities for functions, recording the 
work done including the use of internal control, preparing questionnaires and forms for evaluation of in-
ternal control 
 
3. Professional conduct and Ethics 
 
Integrity, Objectivity in gathering, Evaluating and communicating information about the audit activities, 
Confidentiality of information, Professional obligatio ns, Competency in applying the knowledge, skills, 
and experience 
  
4. Legal right and responsibilities 
 
 
Legal responsibility of Accountants and Auditors and related legal provisions 
  
5. Techniques for risk assessment and management 
 
Identifying different types of risk, risk management process, techniques and tools managing risks 
  
6. Auditing standards 
 
International Standards of Auditing (ISAs) and Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) 
  
7. Functions of internal audit 
 
Identifying functions of internal audit, objectives of internal audit and Audit Committees 
 
8. Evidence collection 
Identifying different evidence coll ection methods, Evidence collection process and ensuring validity of 
the evidence 
  
9. Reporting functions 
 
Type of reports, reporting standards, structure, reporting process, audit opinions and follow-up process 
etc. 
  

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.04.27 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2021 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
Part II – Economic Analysis  
 
This part includes 03questions prepared to measure the candidate’s knowledge on following areas and candidates should 
answer 02 questions. All questions carry equal marks.  
 
1. Understanding Macroeconomic variables  
 
Identifying Macroeconomic variables and leading indexes, purpose of assessment of Macroeconomic variables, 
correlations among Macroeconomic variables and current Sri Lankan contexts.  
 
2. National Income Determination and National Income Accounting  
 
Methods of measuring national income, Sectorial contribution of the national income, capital consumption and 
capital consumption adjustments, government consumption and private consumption, national products and welfare 
and current Sri Lankan context.  
 
3. International Trade and Economic Development  
 
Theory of international trade, International trade and economic development, Balance of Payments and exchange 
rate behaviour and current Sri Lankan context  
   
4. Foreign Finance, Foreign Direct Investments, Developing countries debt, Sustainable Debt Management and current 
   Sri Lankan context.  
 
5. Capital and financial Market, Financial intermediaries and financial instruments 
 
6. Monetary Policy  
 
7. Fiscal Policy  
 
Medium of Examination 
 
 (i) This examination will be held in  Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages. 
 (ii)  Candidates can sit the examination in any one of these languages of their choice. 
 (iii)  Candidates should answer all ques tion papers of this examination and select only one language for all the papers. 
 (iv)  Candidates will not be allowed to change the medium of examination produced by them in the application form. 
 
Method of selection for appointment: 
 
Only the candidates who obta ined a minimum of 40% or more of the allotted marks for each written question paper 
will be called for the interview.  The candidates who proved their qualifications at the interview will be selected for 
appointment according to the order of merit of the marks they obtained  in the written examination and their service 
preference mentioned in the application for the Common Comp etitive Examination for filling up of the vacancies in 
Grade III of the Executive Service Category. 
 
 
05-107 