

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2189
PAGE
Post - Vacant … … … 2182 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"311 – 2022 foieïn¾ ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2022'12'16
No. 2,311  –  FRIDAY ,  DECEMBER 16, 2022
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th January, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd December, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
,Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2022.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2179 - B 082410 - 5,403 (12/2022)
N. B.–   Part IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 2310 of  09.12.2022 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2180
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Ofﬁ cers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proﬁ ciency in one of the ofﬁ cial 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  pro ﬁ ciency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2181
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2182
Posts - Vacant 
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of  Additional Marriages (Kandyan /General) 
Sinhala Medium
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages for the Divisions 
set out in the Schedule hereof :
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages Division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired suf ﬁ cient 
interest and inﬂ uence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a Widow/Widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala Language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have passed in any other similar 
Examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the of ﬁ ce in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. Additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Births, Deaths 
and Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other quali ﬁ cations required for this post, could be 
obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat 
or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Of ﬁ ces, Samurdhi Development Society Of ﬁ ces and Post 
Ofﬁ ces depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Of ﬁ ce), relevant  land  and  District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the Of ﬁ cial website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
Department.
09. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be forwarded on or before 16th of January, 2023  by registered post to the address 
given in the Schedule.
  P. S. P. A
BEYWARDHANA,  
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
23rd November, 2022.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2183
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Matale Matale Post of  Registrar of Additional 
Marriages of  Matale Town
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Matale.
11 - 328
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages (Sinhala/Tamil)
MATALE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages Division and entitled to reasonable properties 
and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired suf ﬁ cient interest and in ﬂ uence amongst the 
residents of the area.
02. Only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil (Relevant Language for the post) with 
02 Credit passes in not more than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform 
duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have 
passed in any other similar examination.
 N.B.- In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 (Possession of Moulavi Certi ﬁ cate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulﬁ llment of aforesaid basic 
qualiﬁ cation.)
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the of ﬁ ce in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2184
07. Additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Muslim Marriage, 
relevant educational and other qualiﬁ cations required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in public 
places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari Ofﬁ ces, Samurdhi Development Society Ofﬁ ces and Post Ofﬁ ces depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions could be collected 
from District Secretariat (GA Ofﬁ ce), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications could 
also be downloaded from the ofﬁ cial website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's Department.
09. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be forwarded on or before 16th January, 2023 by registered post to the address given 
in the Schedule.
  P. S. P. A
BEYWARDHANA,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
23rd November, 2022.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Matale Dambulla
Post of Registrar of Muslim 
Marriages of Nikawatana Area in 
Matale North
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Matale.
12 - 329
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages (Kandyan /General) 
Sinhala Medium
RATNAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages for the Divisions 
set out in the Schedule hereof :
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages Division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufﬁ cient 
interest and inﬂ uence amongst the residents of the area.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2185
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a Widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala Language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have passed in any other similar 
Examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the of ﬁ ce in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. Additional details such as Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Births, Deaths 
and Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other quali ﬁ cations required for this post, could be 
obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat 
or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Of ﬁ ces, Samurdhi Development Society Of ﬁ ces and Post 
Ofﬁ ces depicted in the schedue hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Of ﬁ ce), relevant  land  and  District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the of ﬁ cial website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
Department.
09. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be forwarded on or before 17th of January, 2023  by registered post to the address 
given in the Schedule.
  P. S. P. A
BEYWARDHANA,  
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th November, 2022.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Ratnapura Eheliyagoda Post of  Births and Deaths Registrar 
of Ganegoda Division and post 
of Marriages (Kandyan/General) 
Registrar of Kuruwita Koralaya 
Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.
12 - 330

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2186
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages (Tamil)
RATNAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages Division and entitled to reasonable properties 
and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired suf ﬁ cient interest and in ﬂ uence amongst the 
residents of the area.
02. Only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil (Relevant Language for the post) with 
02 Credit passes in not more than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) Examination together with the ability to perform 
duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have 
passed in any other similar Examination.
 N.B.- In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 (Possession of Moulavi Certi ﬁ cate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulﬁ llment of aforesaid basic 
qualiﬁ cation.)
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the of ﬁ ce in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. Additional details such as Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Muslim Marriage, 
relevant educational and other qualiﬁ cations required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in public 
places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari Ofﬁ ces, Samurdhi Development Society Ofﬁ ces and Post Ofﬁ ces depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions could be collected 
from District Secretariat (GA Ofﬁ ce), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications could 
also be downloaded from the ofﬁ cial website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's Department.
09. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be forwarded on or before 17th January, 2023 by registered post to the address given 
in the Schedule.
  P. S. P. A
BEYWARDHANA,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th November, 2022.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2187
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Ratnapura Godakawela
Post of Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Rakwana Division
(Tamil Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Rathnapura.
12 - 331
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths - Sinhala Medium
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths for the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof :
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of Births and Deaths  Division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired suf ﬁ cient interest and in ﬂ uence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala Language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the of ﬁ ce in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and enable easy access by all or majority of residents.
 Under circumstances where there is no adequate of ﬁ ce facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to establish his/her ofﬁ ce at a suitable building 
located in the close proximity within 01 k.m. from the Hospital.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2188
06. Additional details such as Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Births and Deaths 
and, relevant educational and other quali ﬁ cations required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited 
in public places within the division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land and District 
Registries, Grama Niladhari Ofﬁ ces, Samurdhi Development Society Ofﬁ ces and Post Ofﬁ ces depicted in the Schedule 
hereunder.
07. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Of ﬁ ce), relevant  land  and  District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the of ﬁ cial website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
Department.
08. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be forwarded on or before 17th of January, 2023  by registered post to the address 
given in the Schedule.
  P. S. P. A
BEYWARDHANA,  
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th November, 2022.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Badulla Haputale
Post of  Births and Deaths Registrar 
of Diyathalawa Base Hospital 
Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Badulla.
12 - 332

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2189
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION - SKILLS 
DEVELOPMENT & VOCATIONAL 
EDUCATION SECTOR NATIONAL 
APPRENTICE & INDUSTRIAL 
TRAINING AUTHORITY INSTITUTE 
OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY, 
KATUNAYAKE 
Enrolment of Special Apprentices in Engineering 
Sciences for the 
National Diploma in Engineering Sciences (NDES) 
- 2023 Batch 
(Academic Semesters will be conducted at the 
Institute of Engineering Technology and 
in online method as per the requirement of the 
institute)
APPLICATIONS are called from quali ﬁ ed citizens of Sri 
Lanka for the competitive examination to enroll Special 
Apprentices in Engineering Sciences for the National 
Diploma in Engineering Sciences (NDES) at the Institute 
of Engineering Technology (IET), Katunayake. This 
examination will be held by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations as per the regulations of National Apprentice 
& Industrial Training Authority.
 Candidates will have to abide by the rules and 
regulations, imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations, regarding the conduct of the examination 
and release of results. In the event of violation of those 
rules and regulations, the candidates are bound to undergo 
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations.
1.  Eligibility -
 1.1 Educational Quali ﬁ cations (at the time of 
applying) - For all the courses;
  Should have passed the G.C.E. Advanced 
Level Examination in not more than three 
attempts. Should have passed all the three (03) 
subjects; Combined Mathematics, Physics 
& Chemistry in the G.C.E. Advanced Level 
Examination in one such sitting.
and
  Should have obtained a credit pass for English 
in the G.C.E. Ordinary Level Examination (in 
not more than three attempts).
 1.2  Age -
  The applicant should be not less than 18 
years and not more that 25 years of age as at 
31.12.2022.
  Accordingly, the applicants, whose date of 
birth falls on 31.12.2004 or before and on 
31.12.1997 or after are eligible to apply.
N.B.-  Applicants below 20 years of age will be given 
priority when selections are done for the Marine 
Engineering ﬁ eld.
2.  Method of Selection -
 2.1  Selections will be done as mentioned below 
from the applicants who have the minimum 
entry quali ﬁ cations as stated in Para 1.1 and 
who are within the age limit mentioned in Para 
1.2 above.
 Written Test -
 2.2  Applicants who have ful ﬁ lled the basic 
qualiﬁ cations will be required to sit for a 
written aptitude test in English medium.
  The examination consists of two multiple 
choice question papers as follows ;
(01)  General Knowledge - 01 hour 
 - 100 marks
(02)  Technical and General Test - 01 hour 
- 100 marks
  In the Technical and General Test, your 
knowledge will be tested under the topics; 
Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering, the G.C.E. Advanced 
Level Combined Mathematics and Information 
& Communication Technology.
 2.3   The written test will be held only at a selected 
centre in Colombo.
  All the applicants who are eligible for the 
written test will be informed of the exam centre 
by the Department of Examination before two 
weeks.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2190
 2.4  Interview - 
  Applicants will be called for an interview based 
on the order of the highest marks obtained at 
the written test.
 2.5  Selection Criteria -
Recommended marks for written 
test 60%
Recommended marks for Z-score 20%
Recommended marks for interview 20%
  Recommended marking for the interview is as 
follows :
Marks for extra-curricular activities 10%
Marks for the preparation to face 
interview and appearance and 
grooming
10%
  Around 500 apprentices  will be selected for 
the course by the order of the highest marks 
based on the total marks obtained for the 
aforementioned tests.
 2.6  All the applicants who get selected for the 
course will have to appear for a medical test 
at their own expense before the registration. 
(Those who get selected for Marine 
Engineering Course will have to appear again 
for a special medical test at their own expense 
after the registration).
 2.7  A candidate will be required to prove his/
her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject 
he/she appears. For this purpose, any of the 
following documents will be accepted :
 i.  National Identity Card
 ii.  A Valid Passport
 iii.  A Valid Driving Licence
  Further, the candidates should enter the 
examination hall without covering their face 
and ears so that their identity can be veri ﬁ ed. 
Candidates who refuse to prove their identities 
will not be admitted to the examination hall. 
Furthermore, the candidates should remain 
without covering the face and the ears from 
the moment of entering the examination hall 
until the end of the examination and leaving 
the hall, so that the examination authorities can 
identify the candidate.
 2.8  The Issue of an Admission Card to a Candidate 
should not be treated as an assurance that he/
she has fulﬁ lled requirements to appear for the 
examination or that he/she is eligible for the 
course.
3.  Application Procedure -
3.1  All the applicants should pay a total of                            
Rs. 4,000/- that is Rs. 3400/- as the examination 
fee and fee for administration work and Rs. 
600/- as government revenue when forwarding 
their applications.)
 (The amount will not be refunded for any 
reason)
3.2  Cash deposit slip should be duly ﬁ lled including 
following information.
 ( i)  Branch Code and Account 
  No.: 276-001-8-6351396.
 (ii)  Credit Instructions : To the credit of 
Institute of Engineering Technology 
Students Welfare Account No. 276-
1-001-8-6351396 at people's Bank, 
Katunayake.
 (iii)  Name & the Address of the Applicant.
N.B.-  This payment can be made to any People's Bank 
branch island -wide.
3.3  The application form and further information 
of the institute can be obtained from the 
website, www.iet.edu.lk.
Method of Applying :
I.  Please download the application form from 
the website www.iet.edu.lk of the Institute of 
Engineering Technology and send the duly 
perfected application (hard copy) with the 
signature of the applicant by registered post 
to reach the following address on or before 
17.01.2023 along with below documents.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2191
Application should be addressed to,
Registrar/Administrative Ofﬁ cer,
Institute of Engineering Technology,
Temple Road, 18th Mile Post,
Katunayake.
• Original copy of the cash deposit slip duly 
certiﬁ ed by an authorized of ﬁ cer of the 
bank
 Applicant should ensure that these are true 
and accurate.
• A copy of the Birth Certi ﬁ cate
• A copy of any of the below documents
• National Identity Card/Valid Passport/
Valid Driving Licence
• Copies of the G.C.E. Advanced Level 
Examination and the G.C.E. Ordinary 
Level Examination results sheets.
II.  Please "Click" the "Apply Now" button on 
the website www.iet.edu.lk of the Institute of 
Engineering Technology. Please duly ﬁ ll the 
"Google Form" as per the given instructions 
and "Click" the button , Submit".
3.4  The application form should be compulsorily 
forwarded in both ways i.e. hard copy and 
Google form and the information given in the 
I and II should tally 100% with each other. 
Incompatible applications will be rejected. The 
ﬁ nal decision will be taken by the Institute of 
Engineering Technology.
3.5  Late applications or applications forwarded by 
hand will be rejected without any notice.
3.6  Those who are currently following a full 
time diploma course equivalent to the 
National Diploma in Engineering Sciences 
in any higher education institute of the 
government or a full time degree in any 
government university, will not be eligible 
to apply for this course.
3.7  Receipt of the applications will not be 
acknowledged.
4.  Courses conducted by the Institute
 Selections for the subject area will be done upon the 
preferences given by the students and based on the 
marks obtained in an internal examination, which will 
be held after the registration.
 Subject area will be given in registration it self only 
for the Marine Engineering Course.
 4.1  Civil Engineering Field
 1.  Civil - Building & Structural Engineering 
Course
 2.  Civil - Highway & Railway Engineering 
Course
 3.  Civil - Water & Environmental 
Engineering Course
 4.2  Electrical and Electronic Engineering Field
 1.  Electrical and Electronics - Network and  
Communication Engineering Course
 2.  Electrical and Electronic - Electrical 
Power Engineering Course
 4.3  Mechanical Engineering Field
 1.  Mechanical - Automotive Engineering 
Course
 2.  Mechanical - Mechanical (production) 
Engineering Course
 3.  Mechanical - Marine Engineering Course
 4.  Mechanical - Building Services 
Engineering Course
 *  The Marine Engineering Course of  the Institute 
of Engineering Technology is conducted under 
the ISO 9001:2015 certiﬁ cation.
 * The Marine Engineering Course is designed 
to meet the mandatory requirements of 
knowledge, understanding and pro ﬁ ciency in 
Marine Engineering at the operational level 
related to STCW - 95 and model course 7.04 
of the International Maritime Organizations 
(IMO).
5.  Details on Training Duration - 
 The duration of this full time course is four years. The 
course consists of a 30 months theoretical study course 
and 18 month of practical training as given below.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2192
First and second academic semesters 
at IET and in online method 12 Months
First industrial training at outside 
industrial establishments 06 Months
Third and fourth academic semesters 
at IET and in online method 12 Months
Second industrial training at outside 
industrial establishments 06 Months
Fifth (Final) academic semesters at 
IET and in online method 06 Months
Third (Final) industrial training at 
outside industrial establishments 06 Months
 Theoretical Instructions & practicals of the 
engineering course will be conducted at the Institute 
of Engineering Technology and the Industrial Training 
will be conducted at recognized Industrial Institutes.
6.  Medium of Instruction - English Medium
7.  Agreement of Apprenticeship -
 7.1  Each selected apprentice should enter into an 
agreement with the training institute, which 
consists of mutual obligations on both the 
training institute and the apprentice. 
 7.2  There is no guarantee of employment from the 
institute at the end of the training period.
 7.3  All the students who are registered for 
the above courses should maintain the 
attendance as speci ﬁ ed by the Institute 
during the course period. Those who fail to 
meet this requirement are not allowed to sit 
for the examinations and they have to leave 
the course.
8.  Registration of Apprentices
 8.1  At the time of registration, an amount of 
Rs. 5,000/- should be paid as a refundable 
deposit. This will be refunded only for those 
who complete the course successfully. Each 
apprentice who gets selected should pay 
the institution a total of Rs. 4,000 as a non-
refundable fee including Rs. 1,000/- as 
the registration fee and Rs. 3,000/- as the 
documentation fee at the registration for the 
course. Further, if necessary, the amount 
charged by the Department of Examinations 
to certify results of the G.C.E Advanced Level 
Examination and the G.C.E. Ordinary Level 
Examination should be paid by the apprentice.
 8.2  Samurdhi bene ﬁ ciaries are exempted from the 
refundable deposit on submission of relevant 
originals (Samurdhi card and the letter issued 
by the Grama Niladhari and certi ﬁ ed by the 
Divisional Secretary)
9.  Awarding Certi ﬁ cates -
 9.1 The Certi ﬁ cate of National Diploma in 
Engineering Sciences will be awarded to 
apprentices who pass on successful completion 
of theoretical and industrial training after 
the clearance of all ﬁ nancial and other legal 
obligations.
 9.2  Students should bear the cost of the awards 
ceremony at the end of the course.
10.  The Institute of Engineering Technology will not be 
responsible for any delayed application.
11.  In case of any inconsistency and discrepancy between 
the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
12.  Following this course may subject to a minimum 
payment as stipulated by the Government. In such 
case, the amount will be notiﬁ ed in future.
 A Samurdhi bene ﬁ ciary, if selected , can request for 
relief from the course fee.
 Chairman,
 National Apprentice & 
 Industrial Training Authority.
No. 971, 
Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2193


<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2194


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2022
2195
12 – 443
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.