

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2250$14 – 2021 Tlaf;dan¾ 18 jeks i`ÿod – 2021'10'18
No. 2250/14 – MONDAY, OCTOBER  18, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 35142 – 23 (10/2021)
My No.: CI/1852.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between State Pharmaceuti cals Corporation, No. 75, Sir Baron Jayathilaka 
Mawatha, Colombo 01 of the one part and Sevan (7) Unions of the other part on 25th November, 2020 is hereby published 
in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 
1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
19th July, 2021.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 2A
Collective Agreement No. 44 of 2020
COLLECTIVE   AGREEMENT  2020
ENTERED  INTO  BETWEEN
STATE  PHARMACEUTICALS  CORPORATION  OF  SRI LANKA,  COLOMBO 01
of the one part
and 
PROGRESSIVE WORKERS UNION OF COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SERVICES , STATE 
PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION EXECUTIVE OFFICERS’ ASSOCIATION, ST ATE 
PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION PHARMACISTS UNION, STATE PHARMACEUT ICALS 
WORKERS UNION,  
tlai;a rdcH fiajd T!IO kS;s.; ixia:d fiajl ix.uh" cd;sl fiajl ix.uh iy Y%S ,xld ksoyia fiajl ix.uh 
MENTION HEREIN 
of the other part
THIS  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT is made on 25th November, 2020 by and between the  STATE  PHARMACEUTICALS 
CORPORATION OF SRI LANKA  (Established under the State Industrial Coporations Act, No. 49 of 1957 and Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation No. 14, 976/3-1971 September 22nd of Wednesday) and having its head oﬃ  ce at No. 75, Sir Baron Jayathilaka 
Mawatha, Colombo 01, of the one part (hereinafter reﬀ ered to as ‘‘the SPC’’) and the following unions.
 1. Progressive workers union of commercial and industrial serv ices
 2. State Pharmaceuticals Corporation Executive Oﬃ   cers’ Association
 3. State Pharmaceuticals Corporation Pharmacists Union
 4. State Pharmaceuticals Workers Union
 5. tlai;a rdcH fiajd T!IO kS;s.; ixia:d fiajl ix.uh
 6. cd;sl fiajl ix.uh
 7. Y%S ,xld ksoyia fiajl ix.uh
   This Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the ‘‘State Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri Lanka 
Collective Agreement 2020 with the all SPC Unions mentioned herein before.
    1. Employer to be bound. – State Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri Lanka.
   2 .  Employees to be covered and bound. –  This collective Agreement shall cover and bind inter alia all permanent 
employees of State Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri Lanka in the relevant categories of the Salary scales contained in  
Annex II in this collective agreement.
   3 .  Date of Operation and Duration. – This Agreement shall come into eﬀ ect from 01.07.2020, and thereafter continue 
to be in force, unless it is repudiated by either party by givi ng six months notice in writing to the other party. However, 
it is agreed further that no party shall give such notice to th e other party before expiry of 30 months from the date of this 
agreement, and such notice shall be eﬀ ective after expiry of 36 months (i. e. 30.06.2023) from the date of this agreement.
  4. Parties agree that they should commence discussions for re negotiations of the terms and conditions of this agreement 
or for formulation of new collective agreement before the expiry of this agreement.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 3A
   5 .  Matters covered and variation of terms and conditions of employment and bene ﬁ ts. –  It is agreed that this 
Collective Agreement shall be in full and ﬁ nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all  matters raised by 
representatives representing the membership of the said all uni ons in relation to the period of 36 month (3 years) from the 
date of this agreement, in respect of which negotiations have already taken place and matters have been agreed upon by all 
before the execution of this Agreement. Hence it is agreed that during the continuance of this Collective Agreement matters 
discussed, negotiated and agreed upon between the parties as reﬂ ect herein shall remain to be in force and that no Union of 
the SPC will during the period this Collective Agreement will resort to any trade union action such as work to rule, picketing, 
strikes and will also not to vary, alter or add any of the terms and conditions of employment or beneﬁ ts applicable or enjoyed 
as provided for in this Agreement, other than in an event where an annual salary increment of 25 precent (25%) or over has 
been granted to the Corporation employees.
   6 .  Salary Components. – As from the date of execution of this Collective Agreement, e ach employee covered and 
bound by this Agreement shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary 
which comprises the following components;
 (i) As per attached to letter dated 20.11.2020 ( Annex I) of Director General, Department of public Enterprises of 
General Treasury and the table of salaries prepared based on th e approval of the Director General of Public 
Enterprises (Annex II). 
 (ii) Further;
 ( a) Any advantage given to corporation employees in terms of any Circular instruction issued by the Secretary 
to the Treasury, the Secretary, Public Administration (only the circulars applicable to State Corporation and 
Statutory Boards), will continue to be applicable to the employees of the SPC, as may be relevant; and 
 ( b) The Cost of living Allowance (COLA) or related adjustments as may be announced in the annual Budget 
will also be extended to the employees of SPC, as may be relevant, in view of the fact that a separate COLA 
adjustment did not form part of this Collective Agreement.
 ( c) The travelling Allowance not relevant for the employees who a re entitled to vehicle beneﬁ t including fuel 
Allowance approved by Government.
 ( d) All other non salary beneﬁ ts enjoyed by employees to be continued separately and will not change unless 
prior approval is granted by the Treasury.
   7 .  Taxes on Emoluments. - For avoidance of doubt, it is acknowledge the paye tax on emoluments shall be continued 
to be borne by employees.
   8 .  Methodology Of Converting existing salary to proposed salary. - The salaries of employees will be converted to 
the revised scale by applying the step for step (point by point) method of conversion. As per annexed salary scales.
Eg: An employee, who had been on the 5th step of the scale as at the date immediately prior to the Eﬀ ective date of 
this Agreement will be placed on 05th step of the relevant revi sed scale with eﬀ ect from Eﬀ ective date of this 
collective agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 4A
   9 .  Conversion Anomalies. - Parties jointly agree to execute this Agreement on the basis that any anomaly associated 
with the calculation of increments will be reﬀ ered to a Committee comprising of one member from Ministry of Health, Treasury 
Representative, representatives of the SPC (3 members) and pres idents of the unions to which the respective employee is 
attached. Such committee shall be appointed within a month from the date of this Agreement and its recommendations shall 
be given within 3 months three from.
   10. Other Commitments. - The Unions agree that the employees will take all endeavors to enhance the productivity 
of the operations of SPC through which a growth of 10% turnover excluding procurement orders placed by the Ministry of 
Production, Supply and Regalation of Pharmaceuticals to be achieved by the SPC and should maintain adequate proﬁ tability 
at the end of the year.
   1 1 .  Incidental Matters on to be covered. - The parties hereby agreed to all other matters incidental to this Agreement 
not dealt with herein shall be governed by applicable laws, reg ulations and Circular Instructions applicable. However the 
union retains the right to raise any issue which they consider as unreasonable to its members.


<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 5A
11 - 14

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 6A
My No.: CI/1825.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Indian Bank, No. 57, Sir Baron Jayatilleke Mawatha, Colombo 01 and 
Indian Overseas Bank, No. 139, Main Street, Colombo 11 of the o ther part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, 
No. 20 Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 17th September, 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
19th July, 2021.
Collective Agreement No. 38 of 2020
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
between
Indian Bank
Indian Overseas Bank
and
Ceylon Bank Employees Union
2018 - 2021
THIS  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT made and entered into on this 17th day of September, 2020 betwe en Indian Bank 
and Indian overseas Bank, having their registered oﬃ  ces at No. 57, Baron Jayatilaka Mawatha, Colombo 01, at No. 1 39, 
Main Street, Colombo 11, respectively, (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Banks’’ or ‘‘the Bank’’ or “the employer’’ as relevant).
of the One Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered oﬃ  ce at 20, Temple 
Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union’’)
of the Other Part
 WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Collective Agr eement of 2015, which came into eﬀ ect on 
1st April 2015 and subsequent to negotiations between the Banks and the Union, agreement has now been reached between 
the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employe e terms and conditions, cooperation between the Banks, the 
Union and the employees and maintaining an eﬃ  cient and producitve working environment, the matters agreed upon are set 
out hereunder.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 7A
    1. Parties to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover are bind Indian Bank and Indian Overseas Bank 
(the Banks), the Ceylon Bank Employees Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on monthly contracts of 
employment by the Banks and who are employed in any of the cate gories as at the date of this Agreement and for whom a 
salary scale has been prescribed in this agreement in the First  Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). 
This Agreement shall not cover and bind any employee who is an Oﬃ  cer, Staﬀ  Oﬃ  cer, Secretary, Executive and any other 
Staﬀ  on special rates of pay/on contract basis.
   2 .  Date of Operation and Duration.– Unless otherwise stated elsewahre, this Agreement shall have come into force 
on the 1st day of April, 2018 and shall continue until either p arty terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial  
Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31st day of March, 2021. The Union shall, however, have the right 
to commence negotiations for a revised Collective Agreement at any time on or after 1st July, 2020.
   3 .  Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding 
on the parties hereto and such earlier Agreements including the Agreement of 2015 shall stand repudiated in respect of the 
parties hereto.
   4 .  Matters covered and Bound.– 
 ( a) This agreement shall be in full and ﬁ  nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all  the matters 
raised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion 
of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise 
any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except 
to the extent agreed.
 ( b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add 
to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or beneﬁ ts presently applicable or enjoyed as provided 
for in this  Agreement other than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
   5 .  Salary Ranges.– Every employee covered and bound by this Agreement and in se rvice as at the date of this 
Agreement shall, as from the 1.4.2018, be placed on the salary scales set out in the First Schedule hereto.
   6 .  Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales.– For the placement of an employee on the salary scales 
applicable in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall apply.
 (i) A sum equal to 15% of the gross salary (basic salary plus cost of living allowance) payable to an employee as 
at 31 st March, 2018 shall be added to the basic salary of an employee as at such time.
 (ii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agree ment shall also receive no further increase calculated 
on the gross salary as at 31st March, 2018 with eﬀ  ect from the 1st April, 2019, and thereafter placed on the 
appropriate point on the scale in the ﬁ  rst Schedule at the corresponding Rupee point or if there is n o such 
corresponding point, on the next Higher point of the said scale.
 (iii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agre ement shall receive no further increase calculated 
on the gross salary as at 31st March, 2018 with eﬀ  ect from the 1st April, 2020, and thereafter placed on the 
appropriate point on the scale in the First Schedule at the cor respoinding Rupee point or if there is no such 
corresponding point, on the next higher point of the said scale.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 8A
   7 .  Allowances.– 
  a. Cost of Living Allowance (COLA)
   Parties have agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance for the 
duration of the Collective Agreement.
 ( a) Rs. 27,000/ with eﬀ ect from 1.4.2018
 ( b) Rs. 28,500/ with eﬀ ect from 1.4.2019
 ( c) Rs. 30,500/ with eﬀ ect from 1.4.2020
Provided, however, that the Department of Census and Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to the rate of payament 
in relation to the Colombo Consumers' Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base Year 2006/2007) and if the union 
makes a request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the bank would be agreeable to do so.
 b. Cashiers' Risk Allowance and Tellers' Allowance.–
 i. With eﬀ  ect from 1st December, 2018, where a Cashier is called upon to  bear the risk, he shall be paid a 
monthly allowance of Rs. 1,500/- subject to his having worked at least 5 working days in that capacity for a 
month. If he has worked less than 5 days in that capacity he shall receive Rs 150/- per day only.
 ii. With eﬀ  ect from 1st December 2018 any employee who has to bear the risk of authorizing payment of cash 
against cheques in his capacity as a Teller shall be entitled t o a Tellers' Allowance on the under-mentioned 
Formula:
 ( a) Where the limit of authorization is Rs. 25,000/- or more the daily allowance shall be Rs 100/- up to a 
maximum of Rs. 1300/- per month. provided, however,  that a per son will be entitled to the maximum 
payment if he has worked for not less than 15 days as a Teller, during the month.  
 ( b) Where the limit of authorization is less than Rs. 25,000/-  t he daily allowance shall be Rs 90/- up to a 
maximum of Rs. 1200/- per month. provided, however,  that a per son will be entitled to the maximum 
payment if he has worked for not less than 15 days as a Teller, during the month. 
 iii. No employee who in the course of a single month has acted  both as a cashier and a teller and is eligible for 
the above allowances shall be entitled to a sum in excess of Rs . 1300/- or Rs. 1200/- as the case may be, 
depending on his level of responsibility as speciﬁ ed in (ii) (a) and (b) above.
 iv. The Cashiers' Risk Allowance and the Tellers' Allowance wi ll not be included for the purpose of computing 
consequential beneﬁ ts.
 v. No person who functions as a Teller shall, in addition, be entitled to the Cashiers' Risk Allowance for the 
days on which he so functioned as a Teller.
 c. Disturbance Allowance .– An employee called upon to report for work before 7.00 a.m.  shall receive with eﬀ ect 
form December, 2018  Rs. 400/- per day, and  if required to report before 6.30 a.m. shall receive Rs. 500/- per day.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 9A
   8 .  Incremental Date .– 
  This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the annual incremental date of an employee.
 9.  Pension Payments to Employees Who Have Retired From Service .– 
  Any employee who has retired  form  service between 1st April, 2018 and the date hereof shall be entitled to his 
pension caluclated on the basis of the salary in terms of clause 6 hereof.
   1 0 .  Promotion to Grade II.–
 i. Subject to provisions of clauses 11, 12, 13 and 14 hereof, an employee in service as at 1st April, 2018 who 
completes Seven years in Grade I shall automatically be promoted to Grade II  in his Category, subject to 
the right of the Bank to defer such promotion for a period of one year by way of punishment for misconduct 
after an inquiry and  an employee so promoted shall receive not less than the value of two increments in 
Grade I when placed in Grade II.
 ii. 
Accelerated Promotion From  Grade I to Grade II 
  Employees who sit  for and successfully pass the Institute of  Bankers Examination  will be considered for 
placement of Grade II, subject to the conditions referred to at  (a) and (b) hereunder, provided, however, 
that their past record of overall performance, attendance and conduct as assessed by the Bank justiﬁ es such 
consideration.
 ( a) On successful completion of  examinations leading to the full Associateship of the Chartered Institute 
of Bankers (London) or the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka plus three complete years of service with 
the Bank in which such employee serves, or
 ( b) On successful completion of the examinations leading to Stage I/Banking Certiﬁ cate of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers (London) or Intermediate Examination of th e Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka 
plus  four complete years of service with the Bank, in which such employee serves.
 11. Promotions from Grade II to III. – 
  The following principles shall apply to the promotion of an e mployee  from Grade II to III of the basic salary 
scales in the First Schedule hereto.
 ( a) All promotions to Grade III will be after an application is made by an employee to his employer. Promotion 
consequent upon an application will be eﬀ ective from the ﬁ rst of the month succeeding the month in which 
the application is made.
 ( b) An employee eligible to make such application will be –
 (i) An employee who has served for minimum period of seven year s in Grade II, or
 (ii) An employee who has successfully completed Part I of the Chartered Insitute of Bankers (London) 
or the Institute of Bankers, Sri Lanka Examination in which eve nt the minimum period of service 
will be seven years in Grade II or ﬁ ve years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade II, whichever is 
lower, or

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 10A
 (iii) An employee who has completed all stages of the Exminati on leading to the full Associateship of 
the Chartered Insitute of Bankers (London) or the Institute of Bankers, Sri Lanka in which event the 
minimum period of service of seven years in Grade II or three years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in 
Grade II whichever is lower.
 ( c) Promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, 
attendance and punctuality.
 
 ( d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion 
although such cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
 ( e) On promotion to grade III an employee will be placed on a poi nt which will result in an increase of not 
less than the value of  two increments on grade II.
 12. Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV .–
 ( a) All promotions to Grade IV will be after an application is made by an employee to his employer. Promotion 
consequent upon an application will be eﬀ ective from the ﬁ rst of the month succeeding the month in which 
the application is made.
 ( b) Employees who are eligible as at 1st April, 2018 to apply for  promotion to Grade IV will, if promoted, be 
so promoted as from that date. Their applications should be  submitted within one month from the date of 
the singing  of this Collective Agreement failing which any such promotion will be eﬀ ective  in accordance 
with sub clause (a) above.
 (c) An employee eligible to make such application will be -
 i. An employee who has served  for a minimum period of seven y ears in Grade III , or
 ii. An employee who has successsfully completed Part I of the Chartered Institute of Bankers (London)  or 
the institute  of Bankers, Sri Lanka examination in which event the minimum period of service will be 
seven years in Grade  III or ﬁ ve years post- qualiﬁ cation experience  in Grade III, whichever is lower, 
or
 iii. An employee who has completed all stages of the Examinati on leading to the full Associateship of 
the Chartered Institute of  Bankers (London) or the Institute of Bankers, Sri Lanka, in which event the 
minimum period of service will be seven years in Grade III or three years post-qualiﬁ cation experience 
in  Grade III, whichever is lower.
 ( d) to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend on a  consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance 
and punctuality.
 ( e) The Union will have the  right to make representations to the  Bank in respect of any particular non - 
promotion although such cannot be the subject  matter of an industrial dispute.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 11A
 ( f) On promotion to grade IV and employee will be placed on a poi nt which will result in an increase of not 
less than the  value of  two increments on Grade III. 
   13. Re-designation of Typist to clerk.– A Typist shall be considered for re-designation as Clerk provided he possesses 
the following eligibility requirements:
 ( a) Three years service and passing part I  of the institute of B ankers Sri Lanka Examination.
 
 ( b) On completion of the Final Examination of the institute of  B ankers.
 ( c) Six years service and the relevant qualiﬁ cation for entry  as a Clerk.
 ( d) Six years service without requisite qualiﬁ  cations for entry as a Clerk but subject to success  at a writ ten 
examination conducted by the Bank.
  Provided that where a Typist is promoted as a clerk under thi s clause, he shall 4 years service and the 
required qualiﬁ cations or have 8 years service as a Clerk to be considered for promotion thereafter.
   14. Minor Staﬀ   Promotions – without prejudice to the right of each Bank to recruit staﬀ   at their discretion, the 
Banks will consider minor staﬀ  for promotions subject to the following criteria:
 ( a) Peon to Clerk
 (i) The Number of vacancies in the clerical cadre will be anno unced internally by advertisement by Staﬀ  Notice 
annually. Such notice shall stipulate the job requirements of the vacancy advertised, i.e. educational qualiﬁ cations, 
age and any other particular criteria required for such job as determined by the Banks.
 (ii) Any peon or labourer whose record of service, conduct and  attendance has been satisfactory with more than 
four years of service with the Banks who has necessarily comple ted the ﬁ rst part of the Chartered Institute of 
Bankers (London) or Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka will be eligible to apply and will be considered for such 
clerical position. The selection process will include medical e xaminations, interviews, written tests etc., as 
determined by the Banks.
 (iii) Any peon whose record of service and conduct has been sa tisfactory, with more than eight years service with 
the Banks, shall be exempt from the minimum education qualiﬁ cations stipulated in the Notice and may apply 
for such vacancy and will be considered in the manner speciﬁ ed at para (ii) above.
  (iv) Any peon promoted in the manner speciﬁ  ed above will be required to serve a period of probation of tw elve 
months which may be extended by the Banks for a further period of up to six months during which or at the 
end of which the Banks may at their discretion revert such peon to his earlier position and salary.
  (v) The basic salary payable to any peon promoted in the mann er speciﬁ ed above shall be the nearest higher point 
in the Clerical Salary Scale in relation to his basic salary re ceived at such time as a peon, which will result in 
an increase of not less than the value of two increments on the peon scale. Provided further that such promotee 
shall not be placed at Grade II of the salary scale unless he has completed a minimum period of four years on 
Grade I on the Clerical Salary Scale.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 12A
  (vi) Any peon or Labourer who conforms to the above requireme nts shall be promoted if there are vacancies.
  (vii) The decision of the Banks in respect of selection for p romotion shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
 ( b) Labourer to Peon
 (i) The Number of vacancies in the Peon cadre will be announce d internally by advertisement by Staﬀ  Notice 
annually. Such notice shall stipulate the job requirements of the vacancy advertised, i.e. educational qualiﬁ cations, 
age etc. and any other particular criteria required as determined by the Banks.
 (ii) Any labourer with more than four years service whose reco rd of service, conduct and attendance has been 
satisfactory will be eligible to be considered for the post of peon in response to the above mentioned notice. 
The selection process will include medical examinations, interv iews and written tests to assess among other 
things the knowledge of written/spoken language as appropriate in such manner as shall be determined by the 
Banks.
 (iii) Any labourer promoted in the manner speciﬁ  ed above will be required to serve a period of probation of twelve 
months which may be extended by the Banks for a further period of up to six months during which or at the 
end of which if the performance of such labourer is found to be unsatisfactory, the Banks may at their discretion 
revert such peon to his earlier position and salary.
 (iv) The basic salary payable to any labourer promoted in the manner speciﬁ ed above shall be the nearest highest 
point in the Peon Salary Scale in relation to his basic salary received at such time as a labourer, which will 
result in an increase of not less than the value of two increme nts on the labourer scale. Provided further that 
such promotee shall not be placed at Grade II of the salary scale unless he has comple ted a minimum period 
of four years on Grade I on the Peon Salary Scale.
 (v) Any labourer who conforms to the above requirements shall be promoted if there are vacancies.
 (vi) The decision of the Banks in respect of selection for pro motion shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
 ( c) Where the Union is dissatisﬁ ed with regard to a non-promotion concerning minor staﬀ , it is agreed that the Bank 
concerned would discuss the issue in the Monitoring Committee to be set up under this Collective Agreement.
   1 5 .  Provident Fund
 Rates of Contribution. – 
 ( a) The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Banks shall be :
  Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve per cent) of salary
  Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary 
 Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated sala ry referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount 
paid for that month as cost of living allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 13A
 ( b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by Banks.– Where Provident Fund monies are invested in 
the Banks, the Banks shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid of 12 months’ ﬁ xed deposits for a sum of 
Rs. 100,000/- published by the N.S.B. prevailing as at the 1st January for the ﬁ rst half of the year and on the 
rate prevailing on the 1st of July for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested 
at the Bank.
 (c) Deﬁ ciency in Bank’s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension.– Where 
an employee shall cease to be employed by the Banks in circumstances which do not entitle him to a pension 
or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the diﬀ erence between 
the Bank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate 
of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the  Employees’ Provident Fund Act and its 
amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by t he employer on behalf of such employee, 
Such deﬁ ciency will be the diﬀ erence between the following minimum rates of contribution und er the Act 
and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Banks up to 31st March 1992.
 From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80 - 9%  of gross salary
 From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of gross salary
 Prior to 31.12.70 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which 
was less than 10% of basic salary and the therefore no deﬁ ciency arises.
   16. Terminal Beneﬁ ts 
     ( a) Pensions.– An employee shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the B ank and who is in the permanent 
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous 
service (excluding absence/leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the following 
basis:
 No. of completed years  Monthly salary
 Service (max. 35 years) plus 5 × payable in the month
 Retirement age of the Bank  of retirement + COLA
 ( b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/Disability.– An employee who is found to be unable to continue 
to perform his duties as a result of inﬁ  rmity/disability, as certiﬁ ed by the Bank/s Doctor/Medical Specialist/
Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employmen t of the Bank at such time, and shall 
have complete not less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay) shall 
be entitled to a pension computed on the same basis referred to at clause 16(a) above. Provided, however, that 
where an employee is entitled to compensation by the Bank under  any laws in force at the time or an Award 
of Court, such employee shall only be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to 
both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose pr emature retirement occurred in consequence 
of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre-acceptance of pension as provided herein will not 
restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation under any written law.
 ( c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights. – An emoloyee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms 
of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and 
any other payments arising therefrom. The payment will be computed on the following basis.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 14A
 No. of completed years  1 month's salary 
 Service (max. 35 years) plus 5 x plus 1 month's cost of Living  
  Allowance calculated for the month of retirement   
   The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and ﬁ nal satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account 
of the cessation of employent in respect of grtuity, pension, deﬁ ciency, if any, in the Bank's contribution to Provident Fund 
to an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 16.
  
 ( d) Death Gratuity.– On the death of an employee who has been conﬁ rmened and is in the permanent employment 
of the Bank, the Banks will make a compassionate payment of two  months gross salary for each year of 
completed service subject to a minimum of nine months' gross sa lary to the legitimate dependents of the 
deceased employee, as may be determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied 
to them. In the case of the death of an employee who is not con ﬁ rmed in employment the amount payable 
will be 50% of that payable to a conﬁ rmed employee provided that in the case of an employee who has  not 
been conﬁ rmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be calculated as in 
the case of a conﬁ rmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary plus Cost 
of Living Allowance. 
  Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents 
shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation 
under any laws in force at the time on account of Employees’ co mpensation or under any other law or an 
Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occured 
in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provide d herein shall not restrict the right of such 
dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.
 ( e) Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to Retirement.– An employee shall, upon resignation/termination 
of employement prior to retirement in circumstances which do not entitle him to the terminal beneﬁ ts referred 
to at the aforementioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) be entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment 
of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment. 
  The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referre d to at Clause 5 and the Cost of Living Allowance 
referred to at Clause 7(a) hereof.
 ( f) Completed years of actual service shall include only actual c ontinuous service worked excluding absence/ 
leave without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 20 thereof.
 ( g) Commuted Pension
 (i) At the option of the employee at the time of retirement on  or after 1st April, 2018, 25% of the monthly 
pension into 120 will be paid to employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum 
payment as provided for in the agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 15A
 (ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the man ner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable 
to him during the ﬁ rst ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension  he would have been 
entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted  his pension. After the expiry of the said 
ten years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be  restored and added to the monthly 
pension then being paid.
   17. Staﬀ  Loans.– It was agreed by the Banks to introduce the following staﬀ  loans in principle. The modalities of 
the loans such as period of recovery and rate of interest are to be agreed between parties in due course.
   The loan schemes to be introduced are:
 ( a) Housing Loan
 ( b) Vehicle Loan
 (i) Four Wheelers
 (ii) Two Wheelers
   18. Medical Scheme.–
 (i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalization Expenses
  With eﬀ  ect from 1st December, 2018, the Banks will make payment in re spect of each employee up to a 
maximum of Rs. 20,000/- per annum in respect of medical expendi ture incurred by him on his own behalf, 
on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18 years in respect of routine non- 
hospitalization/non-surgical and specialist treatment. For this purpose employees will be required to submit 
prescriptions and bills to cover the expenditure.
 (ii) Special Non-Hospitalization and Non-Surgical Expenditure
  The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis  a further sum up to a maximum of 
Rs. 14,000/- per annum on account of special non-hospitalizatio n and non-surgical expenses covering the 
following items, only incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members:
 ( a) Spectacles
 ( b) Dentures
 ( c) Hearing Aids
  Subject to valid documentation as in the case above and subje ct to the proviso that no claim is made in relation 
to any particular item more than once in three years and in the  case of spectacles it must be supported by a 
prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist.
  In the case of employees who are above the age of 40 years, t he banks agree to reimburse the cost incurred 
by them for change of lenses once in 2 years.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 16A
 (iii) Surgical and Hospitalization Expenditure
  Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospi talization (whether Government or Private) 
expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse and unmarried legitimate children under 18 years of 
age, subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following 
limits per annum:
 ( a) Government Hospital Allowance - Rs. 2,500/- 
 (b) Emergency Treatment Travel 
  expenses (maximum)  - Rs. 1, 700/-
    * The rate is Rs. 40/- per Kilometer
  ( c) Overall Limit for any one event - Rs. 175, 000/-.
  (d) Overall limit for any one year - Rs. 200, 000/-
  (In this case the cost of drugs purchased from outside pharmacies will be reimbursed on submission of 
valid prescriptions and invoices)
Provided however that in the case of a recurrent illness, i.e., of the same kind, the Bank will make payment on this account 
only  if an employee has not exhausted his full limit for the year in respect of the reimbursement.
The rates given above will be effective from 1st April 2018.
The Second  Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
 (iv) Maternity Grant
 ( a) With effect from the date hereof an employee who is married will be entitled to a grant of Rs. 17,000/- in 
respect of two births of children. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one shall be entitled to this 
grant.
 ( b) In the case of reibursement under surgical and hospitalization expeness,  the maximum deduction for normal 
child birth shall be Rs. 17,000/-.
   19.  Retirement.–
 (a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Banks and its 
employees, and on reaching the age of 55 or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso 
facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such 
employee any notice of such retirement.
 (b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement bene ﬁ ts if he  is not less than 50 years and 
has 10 or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his Union and the 
employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party 
to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 17A
   20. Honoraium.– On successful completion of each part of the Institute of Banke rs’s Examination, Sri Lanka or 
London, an employee shall receive a sum of Rs. 18,000/-
   21. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Banks that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Banks will each year 
pay to every employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month 
of December in respect of one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less 
than one year at the rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. The salary for this 
purpose shall include the cost of living allowance. 
   22. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of ni ne months probation subject to the 
right of the Bank to extend the period of probation by a period of three months. 
   23. Release of Parent Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers.– 
 O ﬃ  ce bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work witho ut payment of any salary, allowance or any 
other payment of whatever nature on the following basis:
 ( a) The total number of Oﬃ  ce Bearers so released shall not exceed one.
 ( b) No employee shall be released for more than two years on a single occasion during a period of six years.
 ( c) On resumption of work by an Oﬃ   ce Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall rece ive 
incremental credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not aﬀ ect his rights 
under Clause 16 hereof.
   24. Concessions to Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers and General Councilors.–
 ( a)  The Banks shall at their discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers at any 
one given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers to be present 
at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arb itrations, Industrial Courts, and with their 
respective Bank Managements–exclusively on matters pertaining to the Banks.
 ( b) It is agreed that Central Committee Members (General Council)  of the Union will be permitted to leave at 
12.30 p.m. on 12 days  in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation General Council Members, they would 
be permitted leave for the whole day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year.
 ( c) It is agreed that a day's paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councillors to attend 
Parent Union Generl Council meetings.
 ( d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be release d at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive 
Committee of the Union. Thses meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
   25. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Banks shall permit oﬃ  ce bearers of the Union employed by 
the Banks paid leave to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., 
if there are X branches the total number of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outsatation Branch 
is one situated more than 30 miles from Colobmo.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 18A
   26. Overtime.–  
 ( a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable  overtime which has been authorized by the 
employer, subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
 ( b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Oﬃ  ce Employees Act.
   27. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave.–  
 ( a) Annual Leave
 (i)  Entitlement.– In respect of each year of employement (which means the period January to December) 
during which an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following 
year 21 working days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive 
days and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not les s than 14 days out of the said 21 working 
days.
 (ii)  At the end of the ﬁ rst year of employment the employee qualiﬁ es for proportionate leave as follows:
 ( a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 
1st April.
 ( b) A holiday of 15 days  if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
 ( c) A Holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1s t July but before 1st October, 
and
 ( d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1 st October.
 (iii) Availment.– The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authoriz ation of the Banks upon the 
employee's  application, giving suﬃ  cient notice  to the Banks, so as to ensure availment at time mutually 
convenient.
 (iv) Accumulation.– Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purpose:
 
 ( a) For availment in full, Immediately preceding retirement bu mu tual arrangement with the Banks.
 ( b) For the purpose of attending on a family member, who is serio usly ill.
 ( c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month's prior notice shall be given.
 ( d) For marriage of the employee.
 ( e) Prolonged illness of the employee.
 ( f) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current 
year's leave.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 19A
 ( g) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
  Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) above the approval of  such leave shall be at the discretion of the 
Management. Family member for purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
  Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to  a maximum of seven (7) days per year, and 
provided further that such total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days.
   ( b) Medical Leave.–
 (i)  Entitlement.–  
  An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (2 4) days leave exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
 (ii)  Availment.–
  A bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days o f absence on grounds of sickness not supported 
by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
 ( a) Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days inc luding weekly or other holidays,
   or
 ( b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on groun ds of sickness, uncertiﬁ ed by a 
Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.
 (iii)  Accumulation.–
  An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one ye ar as prescribed above shall be entitled to 
avail himself of the balance of  his entitlement for such year in any succeeding years, or years subject to 
the following provisions:
    ( a)  in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pa y by reason of such accumulation, 
exceed ninety (90) days, and
    ( b)  the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on acco unt of prolonged illness, 
hospitalization or similar circumstances, supported by a Certiﬁ  cate from a Registered Medical 
Practitioner.
    ( c)  where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leav e as a result of prolonged illness 
such as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization, an employer may permit him to set oﬀ  
any further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent 
of the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
 (iv) The Bank will be entitled after inquiry and advising the employ ee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or 
take any action as appropriae in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by 
a Certiﬁ cate from a registered Medical Practitioner occurs in the following circumstances.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 20A
 ( a) where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona ﬁ des of the application and/ or reason for 
absence of an employee, or
 ( b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness imme diately follows or precedes any 
weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona ﬁ des of the application 
and/ or reason for absence of the employee.
 (c) Casual Leave.- An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days c asual leave in each year of 
employment whereof not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not 
precede or follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless 
the reoson for such absence is justiﬁ ed to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not 
have been forseen by such employee. Casual leave cannot be accumulated or carried over to next year.
   28. Suspension. –
    (i)  Where an employee is suspended pending a  disciplinary inq uiry on investigations, He will, subject to the 
provisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half hi s salary from the date of suspension up to six 
months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
 (ii)  Where the suspension is on account of charges involving ﬁ nancial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation, 
the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the peri od of suspension unless the inquiry is not 
concluded within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his (salary plus 
cost of living allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay 
beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand 
thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned 
will not be payable.
    (iii)  In cases not involving ﬁ  nancial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is pr evented from 
concluding the inquiry within six months of suspension for reas ons beyond the employer’s control such 
as where the employee makes repeated requests for postponements  or where he is remanded or in police 
custody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half 
his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.
   29. Disciplinary Procedure.  –  Where the Bank propose to take disciplinary action against an employee except, 
however, in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor oﬀ enses, the following procedure shall 
apply ; 
    ( a)  Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, th e employee shall be furnished with a show 
cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges  against such employee and such show cause 
letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calender days within which to tender his explanation in 
writing to the charges preferred.
    ( b)  Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to 
the Bank his explantion to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable 
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation 
and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time 
as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumtances.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 21A
    ( c)  If where the employee tenders his explanation within the per iod of time allowed to the employee to show 
cause and the Banks are satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall withdrow the charge/s  against the 
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Banks sha ll forthwith reinstate the employee and 
shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
 ( d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time al lowed to him to show cause and the Banks 
are not satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry 
into the charges against such employee.
 ( e) The Banks shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from 
the date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the s how cause letter unless it is not possible to 
do so for reason beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by 
reason of unforeseen circumstances.
 ( f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same  Grade or of a Higher Grade 
than the accused employee or an office bearer of the Union irre spective of grade (in which case 
the Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent the person car rying on the defence for unacceptable 
conduct) or a Central Committee Member of the Union employed in  the banks to defend the 
accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending e mployee has not obtained a legal 
qualiﬁ cation. The defending employee will not suﬀ  er any loss of salary for absence from work on this 
account. The Bank will further allow another member of the  Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an 
Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Banks in 
writing the name of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed 
for the commencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses 
for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Oﬃ  cer will be entitled 
to require a Defending Employee or Observer who obstructs the i nquiry to withdraw therefrom and the 
Defending Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a Defending 
Employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate 
such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the ﬁ ndings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled 
to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring Oﬃ  cer may ask him.
 ( g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of th e inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and 
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certiﬁ ed and 
a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereaft er the proceedings shall be taken as a true 
copy of such proceedings before the inquiring Oﬃ  cer. 
 ( h) The Inquiring Oﬃ   cer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution 
as well.
 ( i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the i nquiry the Banks shall inform the employee, in 
writing, of the ﬁ ndings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
 ( j) Where the Banks fail to inform the employee as aforesaid with in the said period of thirty (30) working 
days except for reasons beyond the control of the Bankss or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such 
employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee 
shall be drawn in respect of such charges.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 22A
 (k) Not withstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not  be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any 
of the following circumstances.
 (i)  Where the employee fails to tender his written explanatio n before the expiry of the time allowed to 
show cause in which event the Banks shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such 
employee had no cause to show.
 (ii)   Where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
 (iii) Where the Banks proposes to warn an employee, but withou t prejudice to the Union’s right to request 
the Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the f act that the inquiry did not commence 
within twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or 
relevant.
 (l) The ﬁ  ndings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Banks shall be ﬁ nal and binding 
on the Banks and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months 
from the date on which the Banks had notiﬁ ed such employee of the ﬁ ndings or punishment, raises a dispute 
in respect of such ﬁ ndings and/ or punishment.
 (m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Banks make orde r that-
 (i)  the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall take 
eﬀ ect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the B anks may determine; provided further 
that the Banks shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary 
to the employee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made. 
 (ii)  the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith 
and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the 
right of the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole 
or part of the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the  basis of the ﬁ ndings of the inquiry. 
 (n) The observance by the Banks of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) s hall not be necessary where an inquiry is not 
held in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being  referred, or has been reﬀ ered, to the Police 
or other authorities for investigations or inquiries or in view  of the fact that criminal charges are pending 
against the employee.
 (o) The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries  that commenced after the date of signing of 
this Agreement.
 
  30.   Technology.–
 (i)   The Third Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Com puter Based Banking Technology agreed 
upon between the parties.
 (ii) The Banks will furnish the Union on request information r elating to new computer hardware to be introduced 
by the Banks, i.e., published manufacturer’s speciﬁ cations relating to equipment. The Banks will be under 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 23A
no obligation to provide information relating to software.
 (iii) The Union will be free to make representations on matter s relating to the introduction of new Computer 
Based Banking Technology in the Banks other than on matters cov ered in this Agreement and subject to 
sub-clause (ii) above.
 (iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute 
on matters relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that 
regard and any representations/ dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial 
dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
 (v) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse eﬀ ects of the use of computers 
shall be referred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. 
In the event of the Monitoring Committee not being able to sati sfy the Union, such matter shall be 
referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the Labour D epartment and the recommendation 
given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties  and where changes are necessary 
in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to
 implement such changes.
   3 1 .  Trade Union Action.  –
 ( a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement :
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement  jointly and severally agree with the Banks 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they sha ll not engage in any strike or other form of 
Trade Union Action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations  or picketing or any form of collective 
action against the Banks in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.
 (b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement :
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement  jointly and severally agree with the Banks 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they sha ll not engage in any strike or other form of 
Trade Union Action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations  or picketing or any form of collective 
action against the Banks in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement 
until –
 (i) The Branch Unions of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably 
with the Banks, at which stage the Branch Union  shall notify the Banks in writing of its intention to 
refer such matter to the Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)
 (ii)  The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all 
forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Banks and/ or the Employers’ Federation 
of Ceylon.
 (iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level o f conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to 
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory 
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to 
the Banks, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 24A
   32. Union Check-oﬀ  Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not 
less than forty (40) percent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Banks shall continue to grant 
check-oﬀ , provided, however, that the Banks reserve the right to stop, suspend or discontinue such facility in the event of the 
Union violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Banks.
   33. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–
 (i) Where either the Union or the Banks are dissatisﬁ  ed with the manner in which the Collective Agreement 
is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding th e adverse eﬀ ects of computer technology 
change such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committe e set up by the Banks consisting of two 
representatives from the Banks and two representatives from the Union. The Banks or the Union may request 
that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by comm unication addressed to the Employers’ 
Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
 (ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shal l be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 
3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950.
   34. Consequences of Termination of Agreement .– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, 
beneﬁ ts, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
   35. Deﬁ nitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, th e following words and phrases shall 
have the following meanings:
 Banks/Bank/Employer Indian Bank
  Indian Overseas Bank
  
 Employee An employee covered and bound by this Collective Agreement
 Cost of Living Allowance The payment in lieu of Cost of Living Allowance is stipulated in the manner set out 
in Clause 7(a)
 Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
 Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at any of  the Banks covered 
by this Agreement
 Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute  in the Industrial 
Disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between any of the Banks who 
are parties to this Agreement and the Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ 
Union at such respective Bank
 Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as deﬁ  ned in Clause 6
 Words importing the Masculine Gender shall include the feminin e.
 Words importing the singular number shall include the plural a nd vice versa.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 25A


<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 26A


<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 27A
SECOND SCHEDULE
 1. ( a) The beneﬁ ts of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons speciﬁ ed in Clause 18 
(iii) of the Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately 
on becoming eligible to be included in this Scheme.
  ( b) No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
 2. Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
 3. Banks must be noti ﬁ ed promptly, and in any event not later than on the ﬁ rst business day following admission 
to hospital.
 4. Banks will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this Scheme and the 
employee shall be required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal 
forms) and submit documentation required by Bank / Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable 
Banks to obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. Banks will advise by internal circular issued 
from time to time the documentary requirements and time limits within documents should be submitted. Where 
an employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to beneﬁ ts under this Scheme.
 5. Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima ﬁ des when making declarations and submitting claims under 
this Scheme and any deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any beneﬁ t under this Scheme. 
In addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with the provisions set out in this 
Agreement.
 6. ( a) Banks will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of hospitals / nursing homes, 
expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme. Additions and / or 
deletions to this list will also be made by internal circular.
  ( b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of 
the Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the 
list of amendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation 
to use a named Institution or Institutions and the Banks shall consider such application on a case by case 
basis and, where deeemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the 
decision of the Bank on this matter shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
 7. Exclusions
  The Scheme shall not cover bene ﬁ ts / expenses :
 ( a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside 
Sri Lanka.
 (b) Occasioned by or happening through:

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 28A
 (i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family  members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign 
Enemy, Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War,  Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, 
Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, 
Security Force, Home Guard etc.
 
 (ii)   Attempted Suicide, Alcoholism, Venereal Disease, Insanity and illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune 
Deﬁ ciency Syndrome.
 (iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 19 (iv ). Provided that if an employee has been 
employed for a continuous period of twelve months, the Bank wil l pay the medical expenses incurred 
for any abnormality of maternity which is in excess of what a n ormal child birth would have cost. The 
responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter 
from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.
 (iv)   Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.
  ( c)  Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than as a ti cket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard 
type of civil aircraft operated by a recognized Airline on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type 
of civil aircraft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a 
Commercial or Industrial ﬁ rm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
  ( d)  In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
  ( e)  Arising from any physical defect or inﬁ rmity which existed prior to conﬁ rmation in the Bank’s service.
    
 8.  The beneﬁ  ts under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “pe r annum” in Clause 18 (iii) of the 
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join 
during the course of a year the overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will 
be pro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st December.
 9.  In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the en d of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the 
entitlement of either or both years, subject, however, to the event limit speciﬁ ed in Clause 18 (iii) of the Agreement.
 10. ( a) In respect of 2018, the full limits speciﬁ ed in Clause 18 (iii) of the Agreement or the pro-rata limits as speciﬁ ed 
in Clause 8 of this Schedule, whichever is lower, will apply subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and 
(c) hereunder.
  ( b) The balance entitlement available for 2018 will be arrived at  after deducting claims whcih have been 
reimbursed or which are accepted for reimbursement in the future with respect to hospitalization occurring 
between 1st December 2018, and the eﬀ ective date of this Agreement.
  (c) The respect of hospitalization commencing prior to the eﬀ  ective date of this Agreement, the beneﬁ ts accruing 
to the employees will be in accordance with the provisions of the Colletive Agreement of 2015.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 29A
THIRD SCHEDULE
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to th e introduction of new Computed Based Banking Technology 
by the Banks covered and bound by this Agreement.
   1.  Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensure th at jobs are designed to include a mix or  VDU/ non VDU 
tasks which seek to provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.
   2. The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly revi ewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper 
safety and eﬀ ectiveness of the operation.
   3. The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with adequate tr aining within the parameters of their job description 
to  ensure the safety and health of employees.
   4. ( a) In selecting VDUs, the Banks will attempt to obtain equipment , which will ensure the following :
 (i) Screens that give clear stable images.
 (ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of s tress and improved maneuverability.
 (iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noi se is kept to a reasonable limit.
 ( b) The Banks will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
    ( c) The Banks will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing 
documents and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.
    ( d) The Banks will endeavour to provide lighting facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
    ( e) Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Banks, is the operation of a 
VDU, will be permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight 
examined prior to his commencing employment on a VDU. In the ev ent of an adverse report being obtained 
from the Optician, the employee should inform the Bank immediately.
    ( f) Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Managments of the Banks, is the 
operation of a VDU, and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the ﬁ rst 
time, he will be permitted, at the expenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank 
for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as to whether any modiﬁ cation is necessary to his lenses. The cost of 
such examination and modiﬁ cation to the lenses if necessary, will be borne by the Bank on the following basis.
 (i)  The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Assistance 
Scheme herein.
 (ii) The cost of modiﬁ  cation of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost 
should exceed the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'10'18
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 18.10.2021
 30A
   5.  Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by  a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, 
the Banks is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours 
so long as there is no disruption of the smooth ﬂ ow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
   6. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the 
Management of the Banks, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations 
as to whether the main or primary function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute 
being raised on this issue.
   7. The Banks agrees that they will not seek to retrench empl oyees who become redundant solely and exclusively 
in consequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Bankin g Technology. Instead, the Banks may avail 
themselves of any one or more of the following options:
 ( a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to oth er sections / Departments to perform work 
which is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such 
time in relation to such employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, 
which the Banks would under normal circumstances be entitled to eﬀ ect.
 ( b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the employers consider it 
necessary.
 ( c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who ar e redundant for the reasons contemplated in 
this Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this 
will not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this Schedule.
   8. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean  an involuntary termination of the employees made 
redundant consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Base d Banking Technology. It will not include a 
situation where such redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employers on terms mutually agreed 
upon.
11 - 15
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.