

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
RAMAKRISHNA SARADA MISSION
(LANKA BRANCH)  (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 1 OF 2012
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 17th January, 2012]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.25 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  January 20, 2012

<!-- page 2 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
1
[Certified on 17th January, 2012]
L.D.—O. Inc.(18/2010)
 AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  RAMAKRISHNA  SARADA  MISSION
 (LANKA  BRANCH )
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “Ramakrishna
Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)” has heretofore been formed,
and registered in Sri Lanka under the provisions of Societies
Ordinance (Chapter 123) for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Society according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and it
will be for the public advantage to grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ramakrishna Sarada
Mission (Lanka Branch) (Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of
the “Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)”  and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
2—PL 005069—3,090 (07/2010)
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Ramakrishna
Sarada Mission
(Lanka Branch).

<!-- page 3 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission  (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to impart and promote the study of Hinduism and
all its scriptures and the teaching of Sri Ramakrishna
Paramahamsa, Sri Sarada Devi and Swami
Vivekananda within the Hindu community;
(b) to promote the study of comparative theology in
its widest form and assist in bringing about the
harmony of all religions;
(c) to promote, encourage and assist the religious,
educational, social and cultural advancement of
Hindu women and children;
(d) to establish, maintain and manage religious and
educational institutions, orphanages, laboratories,
hospitals, dispensaries and other charitable
institutions for the Hindu community;
(e) to train the teachers who are in the Hindu religious
institutions and carry on educational activities
among the masses in all the branches of knowledge;
(f) to publish through print or electronic media and
distribute books, journals, periodicals and
magazines which the Corporation may consider
desirable for the promotion and advancement of its
objects;
(g) to conduct and sponsor conferences, lectures,
seminars, workshops and group studies within or
outside Sri Lanka for Hindu religious personnel for
the purpose of achieving the objects of the
Corporation; and
(h) to collaborate for the betterment of the Hindu
Community with any other institutions or
organizations, whether foreign or local, having
objects similar to those of the Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
3
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subjects to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, be
administered by a Executive Committee (hereinafter referred
to as the “Committee”) consisting of the President and
Secretary who shall be nominated by the Governing Body
of the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission, Dakshineswar, Kolkata,
Vice President and other office bearers elected or appointed
in accordance with the rules of the Corporation made under
section 6.
(2) The person holding the post of the President for
the time being of the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission,
Dakshineswar, Kolkata shall be the Patron of the Corporation.
(3) The first Committee shall consist of the members of
the Executive Committee holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or anyone of
them including the power to:—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortagage, pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise
alienate, encumber or dispose of any immovable
property for the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf  by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may  be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
General Powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission  (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
4
(d) invest its funds, and to maintain current, deposit
and savings accounts in any bank;
(e) borrow or  invest money for the purposes of the
Corporation in such manner and upon such security
as the Corporation may think fit; and
(f) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law on all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of office-bearers, the resignation from
or vaction of, or removal from office of, office bearers
and their powers and duties;
(c) the election of  members of the committee and its
powers conduct and duties;
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed or the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation and
the Committee, the time, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings and the quorum therefor and the
conduct of business thereat; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the costody of its funds.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
5
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,
contrbutions, fees or grants or any financial investment shall
be deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation in
one or more Banks as may be determined by the Committee.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out of
the fund.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor appointed by the Committee.
(4) In this section“qualified auditor” means-
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka, or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by
such   Institute; or
(b) a firm of accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Audit and
Accounts .
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission  (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
6
Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established  by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by
such Institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except  in the presence of the President and the
Secretay of the Corporation or such other perosn duly
authorized by the Committee who shall sign their names on
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to,  subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation
or for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
12. The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the
Corporation.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property, movable or immovable, which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of the Corporation and
Application of
moneys and
property.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Society.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
7
subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of, the same.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other association or
associations having objects, similar to the objects of the
Corporation, and which is, or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or profit among its
or their members. Such association or associations shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at or
immediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic and of anybody politic or
corporate.
16. (1) All contracts, agreements, certificates or other
instruments or documents whatsoever made, issued or executed
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, by or in favour
of the Society shall be deemed from and after the date of
commencement of this Act, to be and to have been made,
issued or executed by or in favour of the Corporation.
(2) All suits, actions, appeals and any other legal
proceedings instituted by or against the Society and pending
immediately prior to the date of the commencement of this
Act, shall not abated or be discontinued and may be continued
or enforced by or against the Corporation.
(3) All property movable and immovable, which has been
vested in, or legally purchased or acquired by, or leased to,
or placed at the disposal of, or in any other manner transferred
to the Society or which is held in trust for the Society, is in
its possession or control on the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be held by or in trust for the Corporation
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Savings.
Savings of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 9 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission  (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
8
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
established under this Act, subject to the trusts, charges,
liabilities, reservations, servitudes or other encumbrances
and on the terms and conditions appertaining, attaching or
applicable thereto at that date.
(4) All the rights, liabilities and obligations of the Society
other than the rights, liabilities and obligations referred to
in subsection (1) on the day immediately prior to the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the rights,
liabilities and obligations of the Corporation.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 10 -->

Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Lanka Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 1 of 2012
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.