

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
729
wxl 1"962 - 2016 wfm%a,a ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'04'08
No. 1,962 – FRIDAY ,  APRIL 08,  2016
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... 730
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 732
By-Laws ... ––
729
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th April, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th April,
2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
W. A. A. G. F
ONSEKA,
 Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– The list of Registered Veterinary Surgeons up to 31.12.2015 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in English Language only.
Note.– Ruhunu Awakening Organization (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of January 01, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
730
Posts – Vacant
PASGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Recruitment for Vacancies
APPLICATIONS are invited for qualified applicants for following vacancies of Pasgoda Pradeshiy Sabha pertaining to Southern Provincial
Public Service.
Serial Designation No. of Salary Scale and Educational and Other
No. Vacancies Salary Code No. Qualifications
01 Driver III 01 06/2006(VI) PL-3 (i) Should have passed at least six subjects in
Rs. 12,470 - 130x10 -145x10 - G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in not more
160x10 - 170x12 - Rs. 18,860 than two sittings. (Except optional
subjects)
(ii) Sho uld have possessed a motor vehicle
driving licence issued by Commissioner
General of Motor Traffic and heavy vehicle
licence on proficiency.
(iii) Should have three years experience as a
Driver.
02 Heavy Equipment 01 06/2006(VI) PL-3 (i) Should have passed at least six subjects in
Operator, III Rs. 12,470 - 130x10 -145x10 - G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in not more
160x10 - 170x12 - Rs. 18,860 than two sittings. (Except optional
subjects)
(ii) Should have obtained level four of
proficiency of N. V . Q. as decided by
Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
(iii) Should have three years experience as a
Driver.
(iv) Should have certificate of competency
issued by Commissioner of Motor Traffic
for driving motor vehicles with tar weigh
over thirty four hundred weight and buses
that can carry more than 32 passengers.
02. General Conditions of Recruitment :
(01) Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or registration,
(02) Applicant should be a permanent resident for the recent three years within Southern Province,
(03) Age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications. (Age limit is not
applicable for those who are already employed in Public Service or Provincial Public Service),
(04) Applicant should be in good health,
(05) Qualified applicants will be selected through a structural interview of checking qualifications,
(06) Applicant should not have been convicted or punished by a Court of Law under Penal Code,
(07) Full powers of delaying or changing or amending this recruitment after or in between calling application are reserved with
the Secretary of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
731
(08) Priority will be given to permanent residents within the area of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha and applicants those who are
already employed in the service of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. Service conditions :
(01) Above posts from Serial No. 01 to 02 are permanent and pensionable. Employees must contribute to Widows and
Orphanage Pension Scheme,
(02) Permanency will be subject to Probation period of 03 years,
(03) All appointees shall adhere to serve according to Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental orders and
regulations and orders which will be enacted from time to time by the Government or Southern Provincial Council.
04. Method of application :
(01) Applicants should apply through an application prepared as per the specimen given at the end of this notice on or before
15.04.2016 to Secretary, Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha, Urubokka under registered post only. On the top left hand corner of
the envelope post applied for has to be mentioned. Incomplete and delayed applications will be rejected,
(02) Already employed applicants in Institution should apply their applications by Chief Institute.
(03) Photocopies of following certificates should be attached to the application :
* Certificate of Birth ,
* Educational Certificates,
* Grama Niladari certificate to prove the residence counter signed by Divisional Secretary,
* Two recent testimonials (One certificate should be from Grama Niladari).
L. I
NDRA PEMALA THA,
Secretary,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
15th day of March, 2016.
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ................................ OF PASGODA PRADESHIY A SABHA IN
SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE
01. (i) Applicant's name with initials :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :––––––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of Birth : Year :––––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at :............ Years :––––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––––.
05. Sex :––––––––––––––.
06. Civil Status :––––––––––––––.
07. Race :––––––––––––––.
08. Divisional Secretary's division of permanent residency :––––––––––––––.
09. Period of permanent residency within Southern Province :––––––––––––––.
10. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? If so by decent or registration :––––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications (Details of examinations passed) :
(i) Year/Grade passed :––––––––––––––. Y ear :––––––––––––––.
(ii) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index Number :––––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
732
Local Government Notifications
(iii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Index Number :––––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
12. Professional Qualifications and Experience :––––––––––––––.
13. If you are already employed in this Pradeshiya Sabha, period of service and details :––––––––––––––.
14. Have you ever been convicted by a court ? :––––––––––––––.
I do hereby certify that above details furnished by me are true and correct. I am aware that I will be disqualified and dispelled from
the service if any information is found false after the selection subject to no compensation.
––––––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Certificate of Head of Department
(Only for those who are already employed in the service)
I, certify that the information furnished above by the applicant are true and he/she could be released from the service if selected.
Currently the applicant has been employed as ..............................
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department/Institute.
(Official Stamp has to be marked).
Date :––––––––––––––.
04–436
PUTTALAM   URBAN   COUNCIL
Provincial Council Act, No. 06 of 1952
(Passed bill of By-laws)
I Wathe Gedara Nishanthe Kumara, Secretary of Puttalam Urban
Council, according to the Provisions in Section 3 of the Local
Authorities (Standard By-law Act) No. 06 of 1952, power vested in
me by Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance that should be
read with Section 118 and Sub-section 9(B) and 9(C) of Section 157
of the said ordinance ;
"The By-law of Urban Council on solid waste management".
Herein, it is announced that the above mentioned By-law of
Urban Councils on Solid Waste Management should to be
implemented within the limits of Puttalam Urban Council which
was decided by me under the decision number 218 made on 10th of
March 2016.
DECISION
I made a decision according to the provisions Section 153 in the
Urban Council Ordinance that should be read with Section 118 and
Sub-section 9(A) and 9(C) in Section 157 in above said Ordinance,
"The By-law of Urban Council on Solid Waste Management".
Which should be implemented within the Puttalam Urban Council
Limit that was published in Part IV(A) 1933/40 of the Gazette of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, executed by assigned
minister of Provincial Council of North Western Province, according
to the power vested to the assigned minister of Provincial Councils
of  North Western Province under the Section 2 of Provincial Councils
(consequential provisions) No. 12 of 1989 that should to be read
with Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act,
No. 06 of 1952.
W. G . N
ISHANTHA KUMARA,
Secretary,
Puttalam Urban Council.
04–433

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
733
KOBEIGANE   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
TO accept Extra Ordinary Gazette  Notice No. 1933/40 of 25.09.2015 including By-law on solid waste management made by Chief
Minister of North Western Province, Attorney-at-law and Hon. Minister of Finance and Planning, Peace and Order, Local Governmen t
and Provincial Administration, Human Resources, Educational and Cultural Affairs, Land, Tourism, Investment Co-ordination,
Co-operative Development and food supply and distribution Mr. J. P. Dayasiri Padma Kumara Jayasekara under Section II of Local
Government Establishment passed By-law No. 6 of 1952.
It is hereby notified that suitability of acceptance this By-law from 20.01.2016 by virtue of Section 3.8 of By-law on Solid
Waste Management, b, c, chap. of Sub-section IX of Section 126 and Section 93 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, notified on 04.12.2014 by Hon.
Minister of Finance and Planning, Peace and Order, Local Government and Provincial Administration, Human Resources, Educational and
Cultural Affairs, Land, Tourism, Investment Co-ordination Co-operative Development and Food Supply and Distribution Mr. J. P.
Dayasiri Padma Kumara Jayasekara under Section II of Local Government Establishment passed By-law No. 6 of 1952 has been adopted
in terms of Decision No. 194 of 02.20.2016 and recommendation made under recommendation No. 06 of management committee of
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha held on 20.01.2016.
R. A. N. B. R
AJAPAKSHA,
Secretary,
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Office of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd March, 2016.
B
Y-LAW   ON  SOLID   WASTE   MANAGEMENT   OF  PRADESHIY A   SABHA
01. This By-law may be cited as By-law on Solid Waste Management.
02. This By-law may be  enacted for control, inspection, supervision and animation of separation, collection, transport,
storage, implementation and maintenance of transfer places, processing, treatment and disposal of solid waste generated
in roads, streets, private premises and public places which are situated in Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. Every owner or resident of any premises situated within Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha shall keep their premises free from
wastes. It shoud be a pleasant and healthy environment.
04. Every owner or resident of any premises situated within Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha should collect, separate, store or
dispose wastes generated within his/her premises or shall act in accordance with the provisions of this By-law.
05. (i) Every owner or resident shall collect the solid wastes generated within their premises daily or less period of time
than that by sweeping or by any other means.
(ii) Every owner or resident shall separate the collected wastes in terms of provisions of Section 8-20.
(iii) Any sack, cover, large vessels or any other container used for storage or dispose of wastes by owner or resident
shall be maintained well.
(iv) A fixed service shall be maintained after prior notice issued by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha for take over collected
wastes in terms of Sub-section 5(1) within Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha limits. Collected wastes in terms of
Section (1) should be handed over by the owner or the resident as per the time table and wastes collection procedure
implemented within Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha after decision is made by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha from time
to time.
(v) Collecting, storage or disposal of wastes should not be done by owner or resident so as to become a danger or harm
for neighbours' health or the hygienic condition of that area.
06. (i) No one shall dispose wastes in to a sea, water source, lagoon, reservoir or reservation, water way or drain or
premises or any other public place or road, lane, high way or street.
(ii) No one shall burn wastes in an open area so as to become a harm to the environment.
(iii) When owner or resident happens to get premission to dispose, treatment, processing, release of wastes in terms of
provisions of Section 7 and if he fails to get permission he can hand over those wastes to an authorized waste
collector.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
734
(iv) W astes which were not disposed, treated or processed under provisions of Section 07 and collected by authorized
waste collector under the provisions of Section 6(iii) shall be disposed in terms of provisions of this By-law.
07. (i) Owner or resident can dispose the wastes within the premises itself except for following instances.
(a) Being a prohibited area for dispose of such wastes.
(b) Certain wastes clearly stipulated by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) W astes may be burnt in a chimney which constructed in accordance with a standard and a plan. Otherwise
treatment, processing or burial can be made as approved by the Secretary.
(iii) If owner or resident ask for a compost vessels from the Secretary, that compost vessels can be supplied to the
particular person free of charge or half payment basis if there is enough space in the premises to maintain a compost
vessel.
(iv) Arrangements shall be made to dispose garden wastes collected within the premises itself in terms of provisions of
this By-law. Remains (if any) shall be handed over to waste collector of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha limtis upon
a payment decided by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time considering the nature of wastes to be
disposed.
(v) A person who fells a tree or a part of it, grown in the vicinity of a street or a road, shall be removed soon. Otherwise
arrangements shall be made to remove it. If not, it shall be handed over to the waste collector for Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha upon a payment, as decided by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) Every person shall make arrangements to prevent his animal from passing feces in a street, road or a public place.
If did so, cleaning and disposing of feces in terms of By-laws is a responsibility of that particular person.
(vii) No one shall release any kind of wastes from a vehicle to canal, brook, water source, reservation or a lagoon or
deposit in above places.
(viii) When a person apply for approval of a building application, he shall explain in his application the way he releases,
treats or process the solid wastes generated in the premises.
H
OUSES
08. (i) Collected wastes by sweeping or by any other mode, shall be separated by every owner or resident as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead animal bodies, parts of the bodies and feces ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every owner or resident shall put those selected and separated wastes into a separate bags, vessels and containers.
They should be kept in separated place until they are removed. They shall be kept in a tightly closed container, so
that rats, insects and other animal can not enter it. Food wastes and bio decayable wastes shall be kept in a vessel
from which water is not leaked. Only after recovery of fee considering wastes related dead animal bodies, parts of
the bodies and nature of feces to be disposed, Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha shall take over those wastes.
09. (i) Every owner of a multi storied building which was given on rent for number of persons shall separate and dispose
their wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes ;

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
735
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead animal bodies, parts of the bodies and feces;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or resident of a building mentioned in Section 9(i) shall keep containers in accordance with the standards
of this By-law and the containers shall be maintained in clean and good hygienic condition.
(iii) When the owner or resident of a building mentioned in Section 9(i) fail to act accordance with Sub-section 9(ii), the
Secretary shall have the power to order the owner or the resident to supply vessels and containers on a date which
Secretary inform to do so. It is the duty of the owner or resident to act in accordance with the order of the Secretary.
(iv) W astes of the premises or a story separated by the owner or resident shall be put into the vessels and containers.
(v) It is the duty of an authorized collector to remove wastes collected under items (a), (b) of Sub-section 9(i) of this
By-law. Any wastes which were not removed so, shall be disposed into a place specially arranged and maintained
by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha or handed over to a waste collector for Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) Harmful wastes maintained in  9i(b) shall not be mixed under item a, b, c, d in above at all and the owner or the
resident must hand over those wastes only to an accredited person for collecting wastes.
10. (i) Secretary shall have the power to issue vessels and containers free of charge for the use of shanty people upon the
prior approval of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The owner or resident of a shanty house shall select and separate the wastes of his premises as follows and put into
vessels and containers which are kept near by the shanty :-
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes
(c) Harmful wastes
(iii) It is the duty of Secretary to give permission to a waste collector to remove wastes specially mentioned in items
(a), (b) of Sub-section10(ii) of this by-law.
S
HOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or manager of a shop or office shall separate wastes collected in each complex as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes
(c) Harmful wastes
(d) Dead animal bodies, parts of the bodies and feces.
(ii) Seperated wastes shall be put into separate vessels and containers and stored in a suitable place until wastes are
removed.
(iii) An owner or manager of a shop or an office may handover the specially mentioned wastes under items (a), (b) of
Sub-section 11(i) of this By-law.
(iv) Owner or manager of a shop or office complex comprising several stories shall put the wastes separated in
accordance with the standards approved by the Secretary into separate vessels and containers and stored in a
suitable place until wastes are removed.
(v) Separated wastes by an owner of an office or a shop specially mentioned in Sub-section 11(iv) of this By-law shall
put into separate vessels and containers. Every owner or manager shall have the right to hand over the wastes
specially mentioned in terms (a), (b) of Sub-sec. 11(i) of this By-law to an authorized waste collector.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
736
(vi) W astes which are mentioned in item (d) of Sub-section 11(i) of this By-law and were not collected by an authorized
collector can be collected by a waste collector of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha upon recovery of a fee decided from
time to time by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vii) Harmful wastes mentioned in item (b) should not be mixed under item a, b, d in above at all and the owner or the
manager must hand over those wastes only to an accredited person for collecting wastes.
(viii) Maintenance of vessels and containers specially mentioned in this By-law and dispose of wastes so as not to create
any health or hygienic issue to the workers or neighbours in office or shop is a duty of every manager or owner of
any shop or office.
H
OTELS
12 (i) Every hotelier or person who was authorized by him shall select and separate wastes collected in his premises as
follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead animal bodies, parts of the bodies and feces.
(ii) Every hotelier or a person who was authorized by him shall put separate wastes into vessels and containers and
store in a suitable place until wastes are removed.
(iii) Every hotelier or a person who was authorized by him shall keep all food wastes and bio decayable wastes in a
vessel or a container which has been tightly closed by using a lid made of plastic or metal so that rats, insects and
other animal can not enter it.
(iv) The specially mentioned wastes items (a), (b) of Sub-section 12(i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector.
(v) Wastes which are mentioned in items (a), (b) and were not taken over under Sub-section 12(iv) of this By-law may
be disposed into specially made vessels and containers and to a nominated place.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in Chapter (c) shall not be mixed under item a, b, c, d in above at all and the every
hotelier or a person who was authorized by him shall must hand over those wastes only to an accredited person for
collecting wastes.
V
EGETABLES AND  FRUIT STALLS
13. (i) The owner or the keeper of every vegetable and fruit stalls shall select and separate the wastes collected in their
stalls as follows :
(a) Vegetables and fruits that are not suitable for human consumption or other decayable wastes.
(b) Reusable and recyclable wastes.
(ii) W astes mentioned in item (a) of this Sub-section 13(i) of this By-law shall be kept in a container which has been
tightly closed so that rats, insects and other animal cannot enter it. These containers shall be made of plastic or
metal so as to prevent from water leaking.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
737
(iii) W astes mentioned  wastes item (a), (b) of Sub-section 13(i) of this By-law shall be handed over to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) W astes described in above item (a), (b) but were not taken over under Sub-section 13(iii) of this By-law shall be
disposed into a specially allocated container or a place.
MEAT, FISH OR EGG STALLS
14. (i) No one shall slaughter any animal except for animals that can be slaughtered under provisions of cattle slaughter
ordinance. This shall be done in terms of a licence issued by Chairman under a written law for this purpose and in
the place which was mentioned in the said law.
(ii) The owner of a meat, fish or egg stall or the person who carry out the business, in that stall shall select and separate
their wastes as follows :
Re usable and recyclable wastes
(a) Dead animal bodies, parts of the dead animal bodies and other decayable wastes which are not suitable for
human consumption.
(iii) Separated wastes shall be put into separate vessels or containers. Wastes mentioned in item (a) of Sub-section
14(ii) of this by-law shall be kept in a container which has been tightly closed, so that rats, insects and other animal
cannot enter it. These containers shall be made of plastic or metal so as to prevent from water leaking.
(iv) W astes mentioned in item (a), (b) of Sub-section 14(ii) of this By-law shall be handed over to an authorized waste
collector. Any wastes which were not removed so, shall be disposed into a place specially arranged or handed over
to a waste collector for Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) Wastes which are mentioned in items (a), (b) and were not taken over under Sub-section 14(iv) of this by-law may
be disposed into specially made cntainers or to a nominated place.
I
TINERANT SELLING OR PAVEMENT SELLING
15. (i) Itinerant or pavement seller, who runs a business which generates wastes, shall keep a vessel or container to put
wastes in accordance with the standards and as provisions made under related by-law. Any wastes shall not be put
into the pavement, a drain of a highway or to a public place.
(ii) Every itinerant or pavement seller shall not keep any vessels or containers in a manner to disturb the transport of
vehicles and pedestrians.
(iii) Every itinerant or pavement seller shall select and separate wastes generated in their business places as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes.
(iv) Separated wastes shall be put into separate vessels or containers. Wastes mentioned in item (a) of Sub-section
15(iii) of this By-law shall be kept inside of a safe vessel or container which has been tightly closed so that rats,
insects and other animal cannot enter it. It shall be kept closed except for the event of extra wastes to be put.
(v) Every itinerant or pavement seller shall hand over the wastes mentioned in item (a)(b) of Section 15(iii) of this By-
law to an authorized waste collector.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in item (c) shall not be mixed under item a, b in above, at all and the every itinerant or
pavement seller who was authorized by him shall must hand over those wastes only to an accredited person for
collecting wastes.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
738
(vii) W astes mentioned in items (a), (b) of Section (v) of this By-law and which were not taken over by Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha shall dispose into a special vessel or container or a place specially.
Allocated for collecting such wastes. Every itinerant or pavement seller shall pay an amount decided by Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before waste vessels are handed over to Urban waste collector.
INDUSTRIES
16. (i) Every industry owner or producer shall select and separate wastes generated in their business places as follows :
(a) Bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping the premises.
(ii) W astes which are mentioned in items a, b, c of Sub-section 16(i) of this By-law can be handed over to a waste
collector of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha upon recovery of a fee decided from time to time Kobeigane Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(iii) Harmful wastes shall be removed in accordance with Environmental Protection Licence issued for that businesses
under North Western Provincial Environment Ordinance No. 12 of 1990.
(iv) Harmful wastes mentioned in item 16(i) shall not be mixed under item a, b, d in above at all and every industry
owner or producer who was authorized by him shall must hand over those wastes only to an accredited person for
collecting wastes.
M
INING, CONSTRUCTIONS AND DEMOLISHING
17. (i) Every person who mines a public place, road or street or demolish or construct any creation shall store the wastes
generated by their activities in a place approved by the Secretary or inside the premises in suitable manner until
they are removed from the premises.
(ii) W astes mentioned in Sub-section 17(i) of this By-law shall be handed over to a waste collector of Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha limits upon a payment decided by Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
H
OSPITALS
18 (i) All the owners or proprietor of hospitals shall provide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes ;
(c) Clinical wastes ;
(d) Harmful wastes ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Collected wastes under item (a), (b) in Schedule I shall store in each container in a suitable place until they remove
and shall handover to the waste collector specified by the Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha. Wastes mentioned in the
Schedule (e) of 19(i) of this By-law shall provide to the authorized waste collector under payment decided by the
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iii) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (c), (d) shall not mix with any other wastes in any way and these wastes
shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environmental Conservation.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
739
License issued for the business under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of
1990.
PRIVATE HOSPITALS AND LABORATARIES
19. (i) All the owners or proprietor of Private Hospitals and Laboratories shall decide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Clinical wastes ;
(d) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Collected wastes under item (a), (b) in Schedule I shall store in each container in a suitable place until they remove
and shall handover to the waste collector specified by the Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha. Wastes mentioned in the
Schedule (e) of 19(i) of this By-law shall provide to the authorized waste collector under payment decided by the
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iii) W astes mentioned in the Schedule (e) of 19(i) of this By-law shall provide to the authorized waste collector under
payment decided by the Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iv) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (c), (d) shall not mix with any other wastes in any way and these wastes
shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environmental Conservation.
License issued for the business under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of
1990.
O
THER PREMISES
20. (i) A person who carries out a business which has not been specially mentioned from No. 8-19 paragraphs or a person
who organizes or implements a common, religious, social, cultural or educational activity with the participation of
general public shall select and separate wastes due to that activity as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio decayable wastes ;
(b) Re usable and recyclable wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping the premises.
(ii) A person who organizes an activity specially mentioned in Sub-section 20(i) shall inform early about the activity
to the Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha so as to enable the Sabha to make special arrangements to collect wastes that
are generated due to those activities.
(iii) Separated wastes shall be put into separate containers and stored in a suitable place.
(iv) W astes mentioned in item, a, b, d of Sub-section 20(i) of this By-law shall be handed over to a waste collector of
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha limits upon a payment made which was decided by Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
(v) However when a wastes are collected by reason of and activity carried out in a religious place with a religious
purpose, without commercial objective, the recovery of a fee as decided by the Sabha from time to time referred to
in Section 4 above does not apply to disposal of wastes so collected by reason of such activity under the (c) above.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
740
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in item (c) shall not be mixed under item a, b, d in above at all and the owners of relevant
premises who was authorized by him shall must hand over those wastes only to an accredited person for collecting
wastes.
S
TREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) Measures shall be taken to administer, control and plan the activities mentioned below by Chairman as decided by
Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(a) To keep streets, public places, roads common drains, water ways and public markets in a clean and hygienic
condition.
(b) To fix and maintain adequate number of dust bins where in places identified as suitable to collect wastes
temporarily.
(c) To supply mobile dust bins to use in ceremonies, in special occasions, in certain events decided by Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha, at the request of organizers of such events or ceremonies.
(d) To maintain hygienically the vessels and containers fixed in places which are identified as suitable for
temporary waste collection and remove wastes in those vessels and containers before it becomes a harm to
the residents living around.
(e) To inquire the complaints on activities specially mentioned in early sections and take actions in that regard.
(ii) No one shall put irrelevant wastes into separated bins for each wastes by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
D
UTIES OF PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) The Secretary may in consultation with the Chairman administer, control, supervise and plan the following
activities subjected to the approval of Sabha.
(a) To encourages people to reduce, reuse and recycle of wastes.
(b) To conduct awareness programmes or publish through media regarding selecting, separating, collecting,
storage, release and dispose of wastes.
(c) To facilitate the small entrepreneurs and those engage in reuse and recycle activities.
(d) Awarding encouragements for those engage in reduce, re use and recycle activities.
(e) Animating of formats on releasing wastes.
(f) Arranging a time table mentioning dates, times, methods and charges of collecting each wastes of each areas
as decided by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha and including the conditions related to collect wastes on public
holidays in the time table.
(g) To collect separated wastes on time as per the time table which were not handed over to authorized collectors
separately.
(h) Hygienically transport of dangerous wastes which were not handed over to an authorized waste collector.
(i) Take action to dispose formally or hand over the wastes to a waste collector ; collected by sweeping streets,
cleaning drains, cleaning public places, from common dust bins, collected by labourers of Kobeigane Pradeshiya
Sabha. (except for dangerous wastes or other wastes directed by the Secretary).
(j) Taking action regards to waste matter separated by wastes collected within the area of authority of the
Pradeshiya sabha including and arrangement to prepare or treat food wastes and other Bio decayable, reusable
wastes in total or in part as far as practicable to do so and taking suitable actions to dispose the rejected by
such process and other residual wastes in a manner approved by the Secretary.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
741
(k) To jointly animate all activities relating to dispose of dangerous wastes with the North Western Provincial
Environmental Authority.
(l) Obtaining an environment protection licence or a licence in terms of North Western Provincial Environmental
Ordinance No. 12 of 1990 and burning wastes, maintenance of a hygienic land reclamation or a formal
alternative methodology subjected to conditions set out specially in environment protection licence issued in
terms of provisions of North Western Provincial Environmental Ordinance No. 12 of 1990.
(m) Providing every worker who carries out sweeping, collecting, selecting and separating transport, transfer and
disposal of wastes with detergents, suitable clothes, gloves, masks and boots, implementing a suitable
insurance scheme and conducting a medical clinic not more than 02 times in a year for the welfare of the
workers.
(n) Implementing of Internal Waste Management Plan for Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha Premises.
(o) Separation and implementation of a solid waste management plan to cover at least 01 calendar year with
details and also to cover 03 ensuing years with regard to the final disposal in accordance with the solid waste
management strategy 2000 and the related and the environment statute No. 12 of 1990 North Western
Province and approval of same on frequent basis as per period such plan covers.
(p) Investigation and taking prompt action on complaints made on items a-o as follows :
If the complaint is regarding a harm which may arise in future, action shall be taken within 03 days.
If it is regarding an another case, action shall be taken within 14 days.
P
ERMIT
23. (i) If a person/persons who reuse, recycle of wastes or produce bio gas or another creations, fulfill the followings he
will be issued a permit by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(a) Carrying out a business within Pradeshiya Sabha limits or another Local Government Institutions in terms of
By-law approved by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
(b) Posses an environment protection licence issued in terms of provisions of North Western Provincial
Environmental Ordinance No. 12 of 1990.
(c) Having a centre for collecting wastes constructed in accordance with the standards approved by Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(d) Having vehicles for transport of collected wastes as approved by the Secretary ensuing the hygienic condition
of the people.
(e) To agree to pay a fee which is decided by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time to the said Sabha for
collecting wastes, which generates when the relevant business is being carried out within Kobeigane Pradeshiya
Sabha and to hand over the remains or effuses or by products of the said business as approved by Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) In case of issue of permit by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha is rejected or nullified and the applicant make a request
for the permit he shall be informed in writing mentioning the reason for such rejecting and nullifying within 30 days
of receiving the application.
(iii) T ype of wastes to be collected during valid period of time and other suitable conditions shall be mentioned in the
permit.
(iv) The permit issued under this By-law shall be cancelled when the permit holder does not act in accordance with
provisions of Sub-section 23(i) of this By-law.
(v) The permit holder shall not collect or take over the wastes after cancelling his permit under provisions of Sub-
section 23(iv) of this By-law. In such case the Secretary shall inform the general public in that regard through media
or by any means.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
742
AREAS TO WHICH WASTES ARE DISPOSED
24. Any unauthorized person shall not enter and go here and there in the waste disposel areas declared by Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha and shall not deposit which will be diposed, mixed or remove any item or material in that area. No one
shall deposit prohibited wastes which may be ordered from time to time by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha, if Kobeigane
Pradeshiya Sabha give permission subjected to condition specified.
25. No one shall use a land or any facilitiy situated within Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha limits for deposit, supply or use of
wastes generated outside the Pradeshiya Sabha limits without prior written approval of North Western Provincial
Environmental Authority subjected to approval of conditions of Secretary.
26. Disposal places shall be limited with a parapet wall or a suitable cover and those wastes shall not be collected in adjoinin g
lands or areas by wind or water etc.
O
THERS
27. (i) Chairman or person who was authorized by him shall have the power to enter into the premises at all reasonable
times and to see whether the owner or the resident of the premises acts in accordance with the provisions of this
By-law.
(ii) The owner, resident, curator manager or any person who is residing or working in that premises shall give
information required to Chairman or an authorized officer of him.
(iii) No one shall disturb the Chairman or his authorized officer for using their powers under these By-laws.
PENALTIES
28. Violation of any Section of this By-law in an offence and is punishable under the penalty limitations mentioned in Section
122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 on conviction by a competent court of law.
DEFINITIONS
29. In this context unless the context otherwise requires.
“Wastes and solid wastes” means, inconsumable materials to the remover such as garbages, wastes collected in cleaning
the streets, dust, soil, mud, ashes etc.
“Food wastes means” food that are inconsumable by human.
“Harmful wastes means” poisonous, inflammable, reactable, infectious, radioactive wastes etc.
“Collecting means” Collecting wastes by an authorized collector or waste collector of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha to
transport for recycling, processing and disposal facilities.
“Compost means” last products received from decaying of organic organisms. It is a humus material that act as a soil
quality protector.
“Chairman means” Chairman who has been elected for Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Secretary means” in case of Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha limits Secretary means the Secretary of Kobeigane Pradeshiya
Sabha which was established for Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha limits under Pradeshiya Sabha Act and which includs
a person who has been appointed to act on his behalf and any officer (and his power) who was authorized to discharge
or implement duties and functions of Secretary under Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
“Storage means” keeping or storage of wastes in the premies of an owner/a resident or in an approved common place.
“Fee means” a fee decided by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
“Garden wastes means” Any plant material removed from trees and plants of a garden and stones, soil etc. removed from
a garden.
“Bio decayable wastes means” wastes that may be decayed by micro organisms.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'08
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2016
743
“Public place means” a road, a ground, a public land, a road reservation, a playground, a common building, a cemetery,
a bus stand, a railway station, a river, a canal, a brook, a lake, a reservoir, a pond, a pool, a lagoon, river branch, a water
way, a beach, or another place that is commonly used by general public.
“Recyclable wastes means” wastes which are changed so that its initial nature can not be identified.
“Reusable wastes means” wastes that can be used by washing or by cleaning or by any other mode.
“Transport means” Carrying wastes from collecting places where they are processed, treated or disposed by using a
transport medium which operated by man, animal or machine.
“Vessels or other containers means” cover, sack, vessel or another container used for transport, collect, release and
storage of wastes in accordance with needs set out in this By-law.
“Authorized collector means” a person who receives a permit from the Secretary to obtain or collect wastes.
“Authorized officer means” a person who was authorized in writing by the Secretary or the Chairman to discharge the
duties under these By-laws.
“Disposal means” deposit of all wastes that were not treated, processed, recycled or reused on or under the surface of
land in which wastes to be intended to detained.
“Transferring place means” a place ordered by Sabha for that purpose. Transfer of wastes from small vehicles to large
vehicles to carry wastes efficiently from that place to place where recycling, processing, treating or disposal are
carried out.
“Person means” an individual, a board, a society of individuals, a co-operated or non co-operated company.
“Waste collector of Pradeshiya Sabha limits means” a person who has been appointed by Kobeigane Pradeshiya Sabha
to collect, obtian, remove the wastes from vessels or containers or a person who has enter into a contract for the said
purposes with Sabha.
“Separation means” separate wastes in to different types in accordance with the items mentioned in this By-law.
“Processing means” the process by which wastes converted into a usable product.
“Sabha means” Pradeshiya Sabha which was in co-operated under Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha limits means” areas declared under Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
“Hygienic land reclamation means” final disposal of wastes in to an area in accordance with the standards accepted in Sri
Lanka to minimize social, health and environmental influences associated with it.
“Owner or the resident means” the owner or a person who has the power of attorney on his behalf or a representative or
a curator appointed by the owner to manage his industry, work shop or estate or a manager acting under the orders of
another person.
“Every person engaging in mining, constructing and demolishing for the purposes of this section” incudes a person who
was engaged for that particular service by an employer.
“Constructing wastes means” wastes and dust, mud or soil generated in constructing buildings and wastes generated in
demolishing buildings.
“Hospital means” a premises established to welcome, nurse and treat persons or animals suffering from an ailment or any
disability and which includes a nursing home, a clinic, a medical centre, a maternity home and veterinary infirmary/
clinics.
“Harmful materials means” clinic wastes, parts of bodies, umbilical cords infectious or extremely infectious wastes.
“Office means” give the similar meaning mentioned in Act on shop and office employees' No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
“Shop means” A place that goods have been kept for whole/retail sale and which includes a food stall, a saloon or a beauty
parlour.
If there is any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, Sinhala text will prevail.
04–496
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.