

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MADAMPE THANIWELLA MAHA DEV ALE TRUST
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 2 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 30th January, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 30, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009
2—PL 003225—3,200 (09/2008)
[Certified on 30th  January, 2009]
L.D.—O. Inc 11/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MADAMPE  THANIWELLA  MAHA
D EV ALE TRUST
WHEREAS a trust called and known as “The Madampe
Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust” has heretofore been formed
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected with the Trust Deed No. 67
dated the fourth of December 1997 attested by Victor
Pragnawasa Karunaratne, Notary Public according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the said Trust has
heretofore successfully carried out and transacted the several
objects and matters for which it was established and has
applied to be incorporated and it will be for the public
advantage to grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Madampe Thaniwella
Maha Devale Trust (Incorporation) Act, No. 2  of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Madampe Thaniwella Devale Trust” (hereinafter referred to
as “The Trust”) and shall hereafter be admitted members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall  be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as “The Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of “The Madampe
Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust” and by that name may sue
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same as may be decided by the
Board of Management.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Madampe
Thaniwella Maha
Devale Trust.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to maintain, improve and manage the Madampe
Thaniwella Maha Devale and its shrine ;
(b) to perform and observe all religious rites in
Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale ;
(c) to organize, supervise and carry out the annual alms
giving at the said Devale ;
(d) to provide for the propagation of the Buddha
dhamma among Buddhists and the fostering of the
order of the Sangha ;
(e) to provide for the teaching of Dhamma to Buddhists
by Bhikkus and for the maintenance and welfare of
such Bhikkus ; and
(f) to encourage the Buddhists to live a life according
to the teachings of Buddha.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act, and any rule that may be made under
section 6, be administered by a Board of Trustees (hereinafter
referred to as “the Board”).
(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Madampe Thaniwella Maha
Devale Trust, holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power —
(a) to acquire and hold any property, mo vable or
immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise ;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009
(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of any such property ;
(c) to appoint, emplo y, rem unerate, e xercise
disciplinary control over and dismiss such officers
and servants as may be necessary for the purpose of
carrying out the objects of the Corporation ;
(d) to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind
whether from local or foreign sources;
(e) to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
borrow or raise money with or without security ;
(f) to invest moneys belonging to the Corporation in
such securities as may be determined by the Board.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting at such
meeting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, or other written law , for all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) the classification of members and membership fees
payable, their admission, withdrawal or expulsion
from membership ;
(b) the election of  members to the Board and its powers
and duties ;
(c) the election of office bearers, their term of office,
resignation from, vaction of or removel from office
and their powers ;
(d) the duties and functions of the officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be followed in the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business thereat ; and
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation including its funds.
(2) An y rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The M embers of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and it
shall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions
or fees in cash  or kind.
(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in any
suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation as
may be decided by the Board.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
fund of the Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
audit.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law possesses a certificate to
practice as an Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
 9. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to, subscriptions
and contributions payable to the Trust on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and
which is or are by the rules thereof  prohibited from
distributing  any income or property among its or their
members. Such institution or institutions shall be determined
by the Board at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the Custody
of a person or persons as may be determined by the Board of
Trustees of the Corporation and not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except  in the presence of such number
of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Debts due and
payable to the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
other persons.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Madampe Thaniwella Maha Devale Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 2 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.