

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2427
2427
wxl 1"943 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'11'27
No. 1,943 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 27, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2430
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2433
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th December, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
December, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,942 of 20.11.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2428
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2429
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2430
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in terms of the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the following schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university or
a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by the
Ministry in charge of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs or a
holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
qualification or a retired public servant who has held office in staff
grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married and over 40 years, should be
physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim
Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by registered
post to reach me on or before 19th December, 2015 with word
“Quazi” written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Originals
of documents should not be forwarded with the application.
A
NANDHI KANAGARATNAM,
Senior Assistant Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Colombo 12,
05th November, 2015.
SCHEDULE
01. Badulla - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Administrative
District of Badulla under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
02. Balapitiya and Elpitiya - Applications are called by the
Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
Balapitiya and Elpitiya Judical Divisions under (Chapter
115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
03. Colombo East - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Hulftsdorp, Granpass,
Maligawatta, St. Sebastian Road, New Bazzar, Thotalanga,
Kochchikade, Kotahena, Padukka, Hokandara, Meegoda,
Godagama, Panagoda, Malabe, Thalangama North,
Kotikawatta and Buthgamuwa areas in the Colombo Judicial
Division under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
04. Harispattuwa and Poojapitiya - Applications are called by
the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
D. S's Divisoin of Harispattuwa and Poojapitiya in Kandy
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
05. Hatton - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Hatton under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
06. Horana - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Horana under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
07. Irakkamam - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Varipathanchenai,
Oddipuram, Ameeralipuram, Unit 10A, Unit 11A,
Nallawanthimalai and Irakkamam Gramasevaka Division No.
01 to 09 in the Judicial Division of Akkaraipattu under
(Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
08. Karaiwahupattu North (Kalmunai) - Applications are called
by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in
the D. S's Division of Kalmunai in Ampara District under
(Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
09. Kalpitiya - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S's Division of
Kalpitiya in Puttalam District under (Chapter 115) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
10. Mannar - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue Division
of Mannar and Manthai in Mannar District under (Chapter
115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
11. Matara - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Matara under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2431
12. Mawanella - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Mawanella under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
13. Nuwara - Eliya - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial
Division of Nuwara - Eliya and Hatton under (Chapter 115)
the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
14. Karaiwahupatthu South (Sainthamaruthu)- Applications are
called by the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of
Quazi in the D. S's Division of Sainthamaruthu in Ampara
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
15. Sammanthurai - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S's Division of
Sammanthurai No. 01, 02, Malkampitiya, Nainakadu,
Malwattha, Navithanweli and Annaivili area in Ampara
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
16. Thambalagamuwa and Kanthale - Applications are called by
the Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
D. S's Division of Thambalagamuwa and Kanthale in
Trincomalee District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
17. Trincomalee - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the D. S's Division of
Trincomalee Town, Gravets and Morawewa in Trincomalee
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
18. Udathalawinna (Uda, Meda and Pahatha Dumbara) -
Applications are called by the Judicial Service Commission
for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue Division of Udu
Dumbara, Meda Dumbara and Pahatha Dumbara in Kandy
District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
19. Udunuwara - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Revenue Division
of Udunuwara in Kandy District under (Chapter 115) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
20. Valachchenai (Koralaipattu) - Applications are called by the
Judicial Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in the
Revenue Division of Koralipattu East (Except the
Oddamawadi) in Batticaloa District under (Chapter 115) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
21. Vavuniya - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Vavuniya under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
22. Jaffna - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of
Jaffna, Point-Pedro and Kayts under (Chapter 115) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
23. Colombo North - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in Fort, Pettah,
Maradana, Suduwella, Borella, Kuppiyawatta, Dematagoda,
Maligakanda, Madampitiya, Modara, Mattakkuliya, Cota
Road, Kolonnawa, Angoda and Wellampitiya areas in the
Colombo Judicial division under (Chapter 115) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
24. Colombo South - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi in Slave Island,
Cinnamon Garden, Kollupitiya, Bambalapitiya, Havelock
Town, Narahenpita, Wellawatta and Kirulapone in the Judicial
Zone of Colombo the Colombo Division under (Chapter
115) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
25. Hambantota - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Hambantota under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
26. Refugee Population - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the Post of Quazi for the Refugee
population in Puttalam District under (Chapter 115) the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
27. Akurana - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the Post of Quazi in Akurana D. S. Division
in Kandy District under (Chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
A
PPLICATION FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF QUAZI UNDER THE MUSLIM MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE ACT (CHAPTER 115) AS AMENDED BY ACTS, NO. 1 OF
1965 AND NO. 32 OF 1969, FOR THE QUAZI DIVISION
Quazi Division :
1. Name with Initial :
Eg. : Abdur Rahman M. I.
2. Full Name  :
Eg. : Mohammadu Ishaq Abdur Rahman

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2432
3. Permanent Residence :
4. Postal Address :
5. Date of Birth :  D   D    M    M    Y     Y     Y    Y
6. Age :
7. Race :
8. Religion :
9. N. I. C. No. :
10. Telephone No. :
11. Academic Qualifications :
1. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
2. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
3. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
4. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
5. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
12. Professional Qualifications :
1. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
2. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
3. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
4. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
5. ............................................................................................................................. ...........................................................................
13. Languages which can read and write :
14. Does the Applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? : Y es No
15. Civil Status  ? : Y es No
16. Is Wife living ? Yes No
17. Past and Present Occupations (with date) :
From To Occupation Place

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2433
18. Value of Possessed by Assets : Rs.
19. Monthly Income : Rs.
20. Amount of debts if any : Rs.
21. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? : Y es No
22. Are you an income tax payer ? : Y es No
23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? : Y es No
24. Particulars of Court convocation if any :
25. Personal referees (They should be responsible person who known you well) :
Name : Name :
Address : Address :
Phone No. : Phone No. :
Occupation : Occupation :
Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you :
I truly and sincerely attest that the above information furnished by me is true and accurate to the best of my knoweldge.
–––––––––––––,
Yours faithfully.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this.
11–644
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Selection of Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges  2016/2017
APPLICATIONS are invited from teachers who posses the following
qualifications to follow the Teacher Education Training Courses in
Government Teachers’ Colleges.
1.1. Untrained teachers serving in Government Schools who
have obtained their formal appointments signed by the
Secretary of Public Service Commission, the Secretary of
Education Service Committee or by the Secretary of the
Provincial Public Service Commission.
1.2. T eachers who have obtained appointments approved by
the Provincial Director of Education and included in the
list of names of Private Schools certified by the Director
of Private Schools in the Ministry of Education.
1.3. Pirivena Teachers who have obtained appointments
approved by the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the Ministry
of Education.
1.4. Teachers who have been certified by the relevant Teacher
Training Authorities as having not completed their course
of studies in Distance Training, Princett or Non-graduate
Weekend Teacher Training Programme.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2434
02. Special Instructions :
2.1 Selections will be made according to the vacancies existing
in Teachers’ Colleges and based on the seniority in
assuming duties in the school. Teachers will not be able
to get their promotion in the teacher service without due
professional qualifications since it will affect the quality
education development. In consideration of all these facts
all Non-graduate untrained teachers are expected to
complete their training.
2.2 This course will be conducted as a two year residential
training and in instances where residential facilities are
not available, permission will be granted to reside within
the vicinity of the Teachers’ College after obtaining
written approval from the Principal.
2.3 It will not be possible to provide the nearest Teachers’
College as the conducting of the course in the respective
Teachers’ Colleges will be decided based on the facilities
available in Teachers’ Colleges.
2.4 During the period of undergoing training in the Teachers’
College, trainees should refrain from following any other
courses or to appear for examinations. Disciplinary action
will be taken after conducting a formal investigation relating
to the information received in this regard and those who
leave the courses.
2.5 This course is not applicable for the following teachers :
(a) The teachers already in the Teachers’ Colleges or
completed a teacher education training course at a
Teachers’ College,
(b) Appointment of Graduate Trainee Teachers or
Graduate Management Assistants or teachers who
have an appointment equivalent to a graduate
appointment,
(c) Teachers who have not fulfilled the qualification
mentioned in Item No. 07 in this Notification,
Necessary action will be taken for the teachers who
have admitted to this teacher training course without
the qualifications according to the above instructions,
by cancelling the teacher training course while training
or by cancelling the teacher training certificate if
after the completion of the teacher training course.
2.6 Every candidate should submit the following documents
at the date of registration to the teacher training course.
(a) Duly completed Bond,
(b) A copy of the Agreement signed between the
government or the board of management to serve for
05 years continuously in the schools appointed after
the completion of the teacher training course,
2.7 It is compulsory for the teachers appointed under the
District Service basis after the month of April 1982, to
serve in the Districts of first appointment school after
the completion of the teacher training course
2.8 No permission is given to the teacher trainees to withdraw
from the teacher training course. If so, a nominal fee with
an additional charge should be charged and credited to the
government account to cover the expenses of the trainee
during the training period.
2.9 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the
information in this Gazette Notification, the decision of
the Secretary – Education will be the final decision.
03.(i) Trainees whose general conduct found to be inconsistent
with college discipline and diligence in studies is not up
to the standard expected by the Principal of the Teachers’
College are liable to be discontinued from pursuing their
training and will be sent back to their schools. Any trainee
who does not have 80% attendance and participation for
the course will not be eligible to sit the Teachers’ College
Final Examination. However, the Secretary, Education
reserves the right to make final decision related to this
matter.
(ii) Leave:
Two years full-pay study leave will be granted for
institutional training. All trainees are required to devote
this two year period entirely for their training. However,
under special circumstances a trainee could be granted a
limited number of casual leave only if the Principal is
satisfied with the necessity. It is necessary that prior
approval of the Principal should be obtained for same.
Leave obtained in this manner should not exceed ten days
per year.
A trainee whose progress in studies is found to be
unsatisfactory owing to obtaining of excessive leave is
liable to be discontinued from training and to be sent back
to school. Any medical leave taken should be supported
by a Medical Certificate obtained from a Government
Medical Officer.
04.Trained Teacher Certificate will be awarded to those who
successfully complete the internal tests and passing the final external
examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations after following the two year training course.
05.Salary Scale.– In accordance with the amendments made to
the teacher service minute, only trained teachers will be absorbed
to the teacher service on a fixed salary scale.
06.(i) Every candidate will be trained in the subject indicated in
the appointment letter. However, teachers who have
obtained appointments for other subjects can apply only
for the Special Education course. The teachers who have
been appointed as Government teachers and whose subject
is not mentioned in the appointment letter, could apply

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2435
for training, in one of the subjects they have passed in the
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination. The candidates are expected
to submit a letter approved by the head of the institution
at the interview to say that they are teaching the relevant
subject. Those, whose subject not indicated in the
appointment letter, will be considered as Primary
Education Teachers.
When the subject is not indicated in the letters of
appointments of Government approved Private Schools
teachers and Pirivena teachers they will be selected for
training according to the subject taught by them.
Submission of a copy of the Time Table approved and
signed by the head of the institution is essential.
(ii) In case of insufficient number of applicants to a course,
the Secretary to the Ministry of Education will decide on
conducting the course.
Course No. Name of the Course
i. 01 Sinhala
ii. 02 Primary Education
iii. 03 Sociology / Social Studies
iv. 04 Science
v. 05 Mathematics
vi. 06 Agriculture
vii. 07 Home Science
viii. 08 English
ix. 09 Buddhism
x. 10 Christianity / Roman Catholism
xi. 11 Hinduism
xii. 12 Islam
xiii. 13 Art
xiv . 14 Music
xv. 15 Dancing
xvi. 16 Arabic
xvii. 17 Special Education
xviii. 18 Handicrafts and Technology
xix. 19 Commerce
xx. 20 Tamil
xxi. 21 Physical Education
xxii. 22 Second National Language
(Sinhala / Tamil)
07.(i) Eligibility.– Every candidate should have fulfilled the
following conditions.
(i) Should posses a good character,
(ii) Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka,
(iii) Should have passed six subjects including
Mathematics and First Language at the G .C.E.(O/L)
or N.C.G.E Examination in not more than 02 sittings,
(iv) Should have three months service as a teacher by
27th November, 2015.  (This is applicable to teachers
who are working in the Government Schools),
(v) All candidates should prove their type of
appointment by producing their original Letter of
First Appointment.
(ii) Candidates who select the under mentioned courses should
possess the qualifications mentioned below in addition
to the above qualifications.
(a) Sinhala Course –  Should have obtained a Credit Pass
for Sinhala at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination.
(b) Science Course :
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit Passes at
G .C.E. (O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the
Senior School Certificate Examination for Physics,
Botany, Biology, Zoology, Chemistry, Mathematics
(Biology will not be considered along with Botany
and Zoology) ; or
(ii) Should have passed in Science and Mathematics
with a Credit Pass for Science in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination.
(c) Mathematics Course–
(i) Should have obtained at least two Credit passes
in Physics, Applied Mathematics, Advanced
Mathematics, Elementary Mathematics, Pure
Mathematics, Mathematics, Science at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) or the Senior
School Certificate Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in Mathematics and Science with
Credit Pass for Mathematics in the New Syllabus ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained passes in two of the above
subjects at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination
(d) Agriculture Course–
(i) Should have obtained a Credit pass in one of the
following subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
(Old Syllabus) or at the Senior School Certificate
Examination Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany,
Zoology ; or
(ii) Should have obtained passes in Science and
Agriculture with a Credit Pass for Agriculture in
the New Syllabus, at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in one of the following
subjects Agriculture, Chemistry, Botany and
Zoology at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects in the N.C.G.E. Examination.
(a letter from the Principal certifying the pre-
vocational subject of the candidate is required) ; or

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2436
(v) Should have obtained a training of not less than six
months in a Government Farm related to
Agriculture
(e) Home Science Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Home Science
or Needle Work at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or at
the Senior Certificate Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in Home Science at
the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in one of the
above subjects in the N.C.G.E. Examination. (a
letter from the Principal certifying the pre-
vocational subject of the candidate is required)  ;or
(iv) Should have obtained a Certificate after studying
Home Science at a Government Technical College
for a period of not less than one year.
(f) English Course–
(i) Should have an appointment as an English Teacher ;
or
(ii) Should be a teacher in service with 1
st, 2nd, 3rd Class
English Teachers’ Certificate ; and
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass for English
Language or English Literature at the G.C.E.(O/L)
/ London (O/L) Examination or at the Senior
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have passed English as a subject at a higher
Examination.
(g) Religion Course–
(i) Candidates applying for a course in Buddhism,
Christianity (RC), Hinduism, Islam should have
obtained a Credit Pass for the relevant religion at
the G.C.E.(O/L) or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass for Religion
at the N.C.G.E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a pass in the subject indicated
in (I) above or in a relevant subject at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination.
(h) Art Course–
(i) Should have obtained a Certificate from the
Government College of Fine Arts (Three year
Course in Art) ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Teachers’ Certificate in
Art (Sinhala / Tamil / English)
(iii) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination or at the Senior School
Certificate Examination ; or
(iv) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Art at the
N.C.G .E. Examination (A letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required) ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Pass for Art at the G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination.
(i) Music Course–
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate Certificate
in Music of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa Sabha or the
First Part in Peradiga Sangeetha Examination or Jathika
Sangeetha Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Fine Arts ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Certificate in Music (Grade V)
of the Northern Ceylon Oriental Music Teachers’
Association : or
(iv) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Music from any recognized Indian Institution of
Music ; or
(v) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Music at the
G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained a pass in Music at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination ; or
(vii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Music at the
N.C.G.E. Examination (A Letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required)
(j) Dancing Course–
(i) Should have obtained the Final / Intermediate Certificate
in Dancing of the Sri Lanka Gandharwa Sabha or the
First Part in Peradiga Netum Examination or Jathika
Netum Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate of
the Government College of Dancing ; or
(iii) Should have obtained the Intermediate Certificate in
Dancing from any recognized Indian Institution of
Dancing ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Dancing at the
G .C.E.(O/L) Examination or Senior School Certificate
Examination ; or
(v) Should have obtained a pass in Dancing at the G.C.E.
(A/L) Examination ; or
(vi) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in Dancing at the
N.C.G.E. Examination (A Letter from the Principal
certifying the Aesthetic subject of the candidate is
required)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2437
(k) Arabic Course–
(i) Should have obtained a pass in stage I and II of the
Al-Alim Preliminary Examination held by the
Department of Examination or should have obtained
a pass in Arabic at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a pass in the Final Examination
of a recognized Madrasa Institute. The recognized
Madrasa Institutes are given below:
1. Bahijathul Ibrahimiya Arabic College, Fort, Galle
2. Gafuriya Arabic College, Maharagama
3. Madrathul Bari Arabic College, Weligama
4. Kasimiya Arabic College, Puttalam
5. Nadwatul Ulema Arabic College, Muttur
6. Eastern Lanka Arabic College, Addalaichchenai
7. Madrasathulfula Arabic College, Kaththankudi
8. Muslim Ladies Arabic College, KalEliya
9. Madrasathul Jeffriya Arabic College, Galle
10. Hiydadiya Arabic College, Madampe
11. Nadwathul Buhari Arabic College, Kinniya
12. Madrasathul Nooraniya Arabic College,
Kotuwegoda, Matara
13. Makkiya Arabic College, Galle
or
Any other approved Institute (Proof of
recognition of the Institute should be forwarded
at the Interview)
(iii) The teachers of all other appointment with the
qualification of the above (I) or (II) can be applied for
this course.
(l) Special Education Course  –
There are three divisions.
(i) Teaching children who are visually handicapped
(Blind)
(ii) Teaching Children who are in the category of hearing
impaired (Deaf)
(iii) Teaching Children who are mentally retarded.
Candidates should indicate the division preferred in
their application. Special consideration will be given
to those having English Knowledge in selecting
suitable candidates.
(m) Handicrafts and Technical Skills Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination or Senior School Examination in
one of the following handicraft subjects;
 Wood Work
 Metal Work
 Weaving
 Pottery
 Motor Mechanism
 Radio Technology
 Masonry
or
(ii) Should have obtained ‘A’ or ‘B’ pass in relevant subject
at the N.C.G.E. Examination (A Letter from the
Principal certifying the pre-vocational  subject of the
candidate is required) ; or
(iii) Should h ave a certificate in proof of successful
completion of course of not less than one year duration
at a Government Technical College or under a
Government Department.
(n) Commerce Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in two subjects
among Economics, Commerce, Accountancy, Typing,
Shorthand, Commerce and Finance at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination or Senior School Examination; or
(ii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects indicated
above at the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Certificate from a Government
Technical College for one year Commerce Course
(o) Tamil Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Tamil Language
at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
(p) Physical Education Course –
(i) Should have obtained a teaching appointment in
Physical Education.
(q) Sociology Course –
(i) Should have obtained a Credit Pass in Social Studies
at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination or Senior School
Examination ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a ‘A’ or ‘B’ grade in Social
Studies at the N.C.G .E. Examination ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Pass in two subjects among
Geography, Economics, Political Science and History
at the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination
(r) Second National Language (Sinhala / Tamil) Course –
Teachers who have obtained appointments for Second
National Language Sinhala / Tamil subjects having
qualifications indicated as in Para 7 (I) above can apply
for same.
8. A limited number of teachers from approved Director Managed
School or on the permanent staff of Government Approved Private

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2438
Schools, having a minimum of 20 hours of teaching during a week,
will be selected for training. The following categories of schools are
recognized for this purpose :
(i) Assisted Schools which became Private fee-levying
Schools in 1951,
(ii) Schools which became Private Non-fee levying Schools
on 1960/12/01,
(iii) Private Schools and Pirivenas approved by the Ministry
of Education (Not by the Divisional / Provincial Directors
of Education).
All candidates who are teachers in Private schools approved by
the Ministry of Education should have a minimum of one year
continuous service on 27.11.2015. They should produce a letter
from the Provincial / Zonal Director of Education certifying their
date of first appointment and that the teacher belongs to the
approved staff of the school at the interview.
Pirivena Teachers should have minimum service of two (02)
years as on 27.11.2015 for this approved service will be recognized
under the Pirivena Act of 1959 or Pirivena Act No. 64 of 1979.
At present, Pirivena teachers can apply only for the courses in
Sinhala, Science, Mathematics, English and Buddhism. (They should
obtain training in the subject for which they were appointed.) In
addition, teachers who are applying from Vidyayathana Pirivenas
can be applied for Music, Art, Dancing, Commerce, Physical
Education and Agriculture.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools and
Pirivenas should submit a declaration by the Managers at the
interview with regards to the following :
(i) that the teacher could be released from service for the
period of training,
(ii) that the Teacher’s salary will be paid during the period of
training,
(iii) that the Teacher could be re-employed by the Management
after completion of their training,
(iv) that no request will be made for replacement of the teachers
selected for the training and that their duties will be
distributed among the other members of the staff.
Teachers selected from Government Approved Private Schools
and Pirivenas, should sign an agreement before their registration to
the effect that “no requests will be made by them for employment
in Government Schools, after completion of their training”.
Teachers from Government Approved Private Schools should
submit the originals of their letters of appointment with the
endorsement of the Provincial Director of Education. In the case of
teachers who obtained their appointment before the age of 18 years,
their date of appointment will be made effective from the 18
th
Birthday. The letter of appointment should be certified by the
Provincial Director of Education concerned, if it has been signed by
any other officer.
09. Application for selection :
(i) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
Specimen given in this Gazette Notification.
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which
the candidate wishes to follow the course,
(b) Application form should be prepared on a sheet of
paper of 8” X 12” (A4) size using both sides,
(c) No alterations or deletions of any cage should be
done. Care should be taken to keep adequate space
between the cages and to avoid any over-crowding.
(ii) Candidate should fill in the application properly.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. Special attention
of the candidates is drawn to the following.
(a) Every candidate must give his / her name as registered
in the Department.
(b) Application should be forwarded through the Head
of the School, Zonal Director of Education &
Provincial Director of Education if the candidate is a
Head of a School he / she should forward the
application through the Zonal Director of Education
and the Provincial Director of Education.
(c) Duly completed applications should be forwarded
under registered cover to “Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla”
to reach on or before  28.12.2015 “Selection of
Teachers to follow the Teacher Education
Courses in Teachers’ Colleges – 2016/2017” and
Name of the Course, Medium and the Zone should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
Registered Post
"Selection of Teachers to follow
the Teacher Education Courses
in Teachers' Colleges - 2016/2017"
Course :.........................
Medium :............... ..........
Zone :.........................
Director of Education,
Teacher Education Administration Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2439
(d) Late applications will be rejected and;
(i) Applications will not be acknowledged,
(ii) No other documents should be attached to the
application,
(iii) Should be prepared to submit originals and
certified photocopies of all certificates and other
documents at the interview.
(iii) Please note that a Weekend or Distance Teacher Training
Programme will not be commenced for Teacher Training
in Teachers’ Colleges for the year 2016/2017.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil or
English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
09th November, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF EDUCATION
SELECTION OF TEACHERS TO FOLLOW THE TEACHER EDUCATION COURSES IN
TEACHERS’ COLLEGES – 2016/2017
01. Medium :
02. Date of assumption of duties
according to the Letter of
Appointment  :
03. Name of Course :
04. Category of First Appointment, Subject and Service / Grade
held by you :
(a) Category of First Appointment:
(b) Subject :
(c) Service / Grade held by you :
(Indicate the appropriate number in the cage)
Sri Lanka Teacher Service - 01
Teacher Assistant - 02
Other (Please specify) - 03
(d) Grade :
05. If you are a teacher registered for the Distance Teacher Training
Course / Weekend Teacher Training Course for Non-graduate
Untrained teachers and not completed ;
(i) Name of the Course :––––––––––––.
(ii) Y ear :––––––––––––.
(iii) Final Results :––––––––––––.
06. Name with Initials (Write in Block Capital Letters. Write the
name first and indicate the initials after the name.) :
(Example : PERERA, A. B.)  Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms.  :––––––––.
07. Names denoted by initials (Write in Block Capital Letters) :
––––––––––.
08. Gender – Male / Female
(Write the respective number in the cage)
Male - 1 Female - 2
09. National Identity Card Number :
10. ( a) Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
(b) Age as on 27.11.2015 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days ––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :
Residence :–––––––––––.   Mobile  :–––––––––––.
12. E-mail address (if any) :–––––––––––.
13. Private Address (Write in Block Capital Letters) :–––––––––.
14. Name of the Present Serving Station, Address, District and
Zone (Write in Block Capital Letters) :
(i) Name of the Present Serving Station :–––––––––––.
(ii) Address :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
(iv) Zone :–––––––––––.
(v) Nature of the Serving Station (Indicate the appropriate
number in the cage)
(a) Government School  – 01
(b) Plantation School – 02
(c) Government approved Pirivena – 03
(d) Government approved Private School– 04
(e) Other – 05

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2015
2440
15. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Results of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial No. Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(ii) Results of G.C.E.(A/L) Examination :
First Time Second Time
Year
Index Number
Serial No. Subject Grade obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
16. Service Particulars :
Serial No. Schools Served Period of Whether
service difficult or not
1.
2.
3.
17. Applicants’ Declaration :
(i) I declare that the above stated information is correct and
true. I know that, if the information given by me found to
be incorrect, my application will be subjected to rejection
and if any fault is revealed after the selection, I will be
dismissed from the course.
(ii) I am presently not undergoing any type of institutional
teacher training programmes.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:––––––––––––.
18. Principals’ Declaration :
(i) The number of teachers in the staff at present :––––––––.
(ii) The Number of Students :–––––––––––.
(iii) Whether the existing staff in the school will be sufficient
for the number of students, if the teacher is released for the
teacher training :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above candidate is a teacher / teacher assistant
serving in my school from ………………………………… up to
date and I have examined the particulars submitted by him / her in
this application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………………. if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal
and the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
19. I, certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms.............................................
is a Teacher / Teacher Assistant, serving in ………..........…..
Vidyalaya of …………................……………… zone from
………………………………………………………….. up to
date. He / She has assumed duties as per his / her first
appointment letter dated ……………………………  I have
examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this
application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ……………………  if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
–––––––––––––,
Signature,
Zonal Director of Education
and the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
20. I certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms................................  is a
Teacher / Teacher Assistant, serving in …………………………
Vidyalaya of …………………………………………… zone.
I have examined the particulars submitted by him / her in this
application and certify them as true and correct.
I agree to release Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ………………… if
selected for the Teacher Training Course.
––––––––––––––,
Signature
Provincial Director of Education
and the Rubber Seal.
Date :–––––––––––––.
11–786
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.