

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS (SPECIAL
PROVISIONS) ACT, No. 10 OF 2017
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 21st of July, 2017]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 21, 2017

<!-- page 2 -->

1Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2017
2—PL 005185—2,961 (05/2017)
Short title.
[Certified on 21st of July, 2017]
L. D.—O. 56/2015.
AN ACT TO MAKE SPECIAL PROVISIONS TO EXEMPT INTERNALLY DISPLACED
PERSONS FROM CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE REGISTRATION OF
ELECTORS ACT, NO. 44 OF 1980; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS certain persons have been internally displaced
as a result of any actions of a terrorist militant or other group
during the recent past:
AND WHEREAS the State has formulated a policy to enable
internally displaced persons and their children eligible to
vote to exercise their right to franchise in the electoral district
in which their permanent places of residence were situated
prior to being internally displaced:
AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to make
special legal provision in order to give effect to such policy:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of  2017.
2. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980, and subject to
the Article 89 of the Constitution, any citizen of Sri Lanka–
(a) who is or had been an internally displaced person;
(b) whose name appeared in the register of electors for
any electoral district for any year, until the end of
the year 2009; and
Internally
displaced
persons eligible
to be registered.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2017
2
(c) whose name has not been entered in any register in
operation subsequent to the year 2009,
shall on proof of the matters specified in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) and on production of a certificate issued by the Grama
Niladhari of the area in which he is presently residing to the
effect that he is or had been an internally displaced person,
be entitled to the registering officer of the electoral district
within which he was permanently resident prior to May 18,
2009, to be registered in the register of electors of such
electoral district.
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall be
made on or before the date specified by the Election
Commission by notice published in the Gazette and in at
least one newspaper each in the Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
entitlement granted under that subsection shall be extended
to the children of a citizen referred to in subsection (1)—
(a) who had not attained the age of eighteen years on
the date on which such citizen became an internally
displaced person and have attained the age of
eighteen years or more on the date on which the
revision commenced in respect of the register in
operation, at the time in which the application is
made;
(b) who are born after such citizen became an internally
displaced person and have attained the age of
eighteen years or more on the date on which the
revision commenced in respect of the register in
operation, at the time in which the application is
made; and
(c) whose name has not been entered in any register in
operation subsequent to the year 2009,
on production of the birth certificate of such child sought to
be registered and a certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari

<!-- page 4 -->

3Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2017
Supplementary
Register.
of the area in which he is presently residing on proof of the
matters specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) and (c) above.
3. (1) The registering officer shall prepare a list of names
of persons referred to in section 2 and shall give notice in
the Gazette and in at least one newspaper each in the Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages that such list has been
completed and is open for inspection at all reasonable hours
of the day at the office of the registering officer.
(2) (a) Any person who has applied to be registered in any
register of electors for any electoral district and whose name
has not appeared in the list referred to in subsection (1) may
appeal in writing to the registering officer within fourteen
days of the notice published in the Gazette.
(b) The provisions of subsections (7) to (16) of section 14
of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall
mutatis mutandis  apply to objections and appeals against
decisions of the registering officer.
(c) If upon such appeal and inquiry, the registering officer
discides not to include the name of such appellant in the
Supplementary Register referred to in section 4, the aggrieved
appellant may appeal to the revising officer within one week
of the decision of the registering officer and the provisions
of subsections (1) to (5) of section 15 of the Registration of
Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall mutatis mutandis apply to
an appeal made under this paragraph.
4. The registering officer of each Electoral District shall
prepare and certify a Supplementary Register containing
the names of the persons whose names appear in the list
prepared under section 3 after inquiry and adjudication if
any, and finalize such Register in terms of that section:
Provided that the registering officer may certify the
Supplementary Register during the pendency of an appeal
List of Claims.

<!-- page 5 -->

Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2017
4
to the revising officer and shall thereafter enter in, or expunge
from, such Register, the name of any person in accordance
with the decision of the revising officer on the determination
of such appeal.
5. (1) No person whose name appears in the
Supplementary Register shall be entitled to have his name
entered in any other register of electors notwithstanding
that he may be qualified to have his name entered in two or
more registers.
(2) No person shall be entitled to have his name entered
more than once in the same register, notwithstanding that he
may be qualified to have his name so entered.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, if a person
whose name appears in the Supplementary Register has his
name appearing in any other register of electors and uses his
vote in two or more electoral districts, he shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction before a Magistrate be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or
to a fine not exceeding Rupees One Hundred Thousand or
to both such imprisonment and fine.
(4) Any person referred to in section 2, who furnishes
false information or forged documents for any purpose
referred to in this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding
Rupees fifty thousand or to both such imprisonment and
fine.
6.  This Act shall be in force for a period of four years
commencing from the date of commencement of this Act.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Offences.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Period of
operation of the
Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2017
8. In this Act—
“Election Commission” means the Election
Commission established under Article 103
of the Constitution;
“internally displaced person” means a citizen of
Sri Lanka who was permanently resident in
Sri Lanka and who was forced or obliged to
leave his permanent residence at any time
prior to May 18, 2009, as a result of any
action of terrorist militant or other group,
and continues to permanently reside in
Sri Lanka outside his original place of
residence;
“registering officer” has the same meaning as in
the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of
1980;
“Register in operation” has the same meaning as
in the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of
1980;
“revising officer” has the same meaning as in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2017
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .