

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1992$19 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 08 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'11'08
No. 1992/19  -  TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  08,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette extraordinary will be published seperately.
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Amendments to SLFRSs (SLFRS 2 Share Based Payments, SLFRS 15 Revenue
from Contracts with Customers and SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts) with effect from 01st January 2018, published herewith
for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Amendments shall be
effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Eighteen.
Earlier application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA  ALWIS,
Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
08th  November, 2016
PG 3308 —  (2017/03)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
Amendments to SLFRSs (SLFRS 2  Share Based Payments , SLFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers and SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts) - effective from 01st  January 
2018 
Amendments to SLFRS 2 Share-based payment 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 2- Share-based payment 
  
Paragraphs 19, 30–31, 33, 52 and 63 are amended, and paragraphs 33A–33H, 59A–59B and 63D are added. 
Headings before paragraphs 33A and 33E are added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined. 
Paragraphs 32 and 34 have not been amended, but are included for ease of reference. 
 
 
Treatment of vesting conditions 
 
19 A grant of equity instruments might be conditional upon satisfying specified vesting conditions. For example, 
a grant of shares or share options to an employee is typically conditional on the employee remaining in the 
entity’s employ for a specified period of time. There might be pe rformance conditions that must be 
satisfied, such as the entity achieving a specified growth in profit or a specified increase in the entity’s share 
price. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall not be taken into account when estimating the 
fair value of the shares or share options at the measurement date. Instead, vesting conditions, other than 
market conditions, shall be taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included 
in the measurement of the transaction amount so that, ultimately, the amount recognised for goods or services 
received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity 
instruments that eventually vest. Hence, on a cumulative basis, no amount is recognised for goods or services 
received if the equity instruments granted do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition, other 
than a market condition, for example,eg the counterparty fails to complete a specified service period, or 
a performance condition is not satisfied, subject to the requirements of paragraph 21. 
 
… 
 
Cash-settled share-based payment transactions 
 
30 For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the entity shall measure the goods or services 
acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the  liability, subject to the requirements of 
paragraphs 31–33D. Until the liability is settled, the entity shall remeasure the fair value of the liability 
at the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement, with a ny c hanges in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss for the period. 
 
31 For example, an entity might grant share appreciation rights to employees as part of their remuneration 
package, whereby the employees will become entitled to a future cash payment (r ather than an equity 
instrument), based on the increase in the entity’s share price from a specified level over a specified period 
of time. Or Alternatively, an entity might grant to its employees a right to receive a future cash payment 
by granting to them a right to shares (including shares to be issued upon the exercise of share options) 
that are redeemable, either mandatorily (egfor example, upon cessation of employment) or at the employee’s 
option. These arrangements are examples of cash-settled share-based payment transactions. Share 
appreciation rights are used to illustrate some of the requirements in paragraphs 32–33D; however, the 
requirements in those paragraphs apply to all cash-settled share-based payment transactions.  
 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
32 The entity shall recognise the services received, and a liability to pay for those services, as the employees 
render service. For example, some share appreciation rights vest immediately, and the  employees are 
therefore not required to complete a specified period of service to become entitled to the cash payment. In 
the absence of evidence to the contrary, the entity shall presume that the services rendered by the employees in 
exchange for the share appreciation rights have been received. Thus, the entity shall recognise immediately 
the services received and a liability to  pay for them. If the share appreciation rights do not vest until the 
employees have completed a specified period of service, the entity shall recognise the services received, and 
a liability to pay for them, as the employees render service during that period. 
 
33 The liability shall be measured, initially and at the end of each reporting period until settled, at the fair value 
of the share appreciation rights, by applying an option pricing model, taking into accou nt the t erms and 
conditions on which the share appreciation rights were granted, and the extent to which the employees have 
rendered service to date.—subject to the requirements of paragraphs 33A–33D. An entity might modify the 
terms and conditions on which a cash-settled share-based payment is granted. Guidance for a modification of 
a share-based payment transaction that changes its classification from cash-settled to equity-settled is given 
in paragraphs B44A–B44C in Appendix B. 
 
Treatment of vesting and non-vesting conditions 
 
33A A cash-settled share-based payment transaction might be conditional upon satisfying specified vesting 
conditions. There might be performance conditions that must be satisfied, such as the entity achieving a 
specified growth in profit or a specified increase in the entity’s share price. Vesting conditions, other than 
market conditions, shall not be taken into account when estimating the fair value of the cash-settled share-
based payment at the measurement date. Instead, vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall 
be taken into account by adjusting the number of awards included in the measurement of the liability 
arising from the transaction. 
 
33B To apply the requirements in paragraph 33A, the entity shall recognise an amount for the goods or services 
received during the vesting period. That amount shall be based on the best available estimate of the number 
of awards that are expected to vest. The entity shall revise that estimate, if necessary, if subsequent 
information indicates that the number of awards that are expected to vest differs from previous estimates. 
On the vesting date, the entity shall revise the estimate to equal the number of awards that ultimately vested. 
 
33C Market conditions, such as a target share price upon which vesting (or exercisability) is conditioned, 
as well as non-vesting conditions, shall be taken into account when estimating the fair value of the cash-settled 
share-based payment granted and when remeasuring the fair value at the end of each reporting period and at 
the date of settlement. 
 
33D As a result of applying paragraphs 30–33C, the cumulative amount ultimately recognised for goods or 
services received as consideration for the cash-settled share-based payment is equal to the cash that is paid. 
 
Share-based   payment   transactions   with   a   net   settlement   feature   for withholding 
tax obligations 
 
33E Tax laws or regulations may oblige an entity to withhold an amount for an employee’s tax obligation 
associated with a share-based payment and transfer that amount, normally in cash, to the tax authority on 
the employee’s behalf. To fulfil this obligation, the terms of the share- based payment arrangement may 
permit or require the entity to withhold the number of equity instruments equal to the monetary value of the 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
employee’s tax obligation from the total number of equity instruments that otherwise would have been issued 
to the employee upon exercise (or vesting) of the share-based payment (ie the share-based payment 
arrangement has a ‘net settlement feature’). 
 
33F As an exception to the requirements in paragraph 34, the transaction described in paragraph 33E shall be 
classified in its entirety as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction if it  would ha ve b een so  
classified in the absence of the net settlement feature. 
 
33G The entity applies paragraph 29 of this Standard to account for the withholding of shares to fund the 
payment to the tax authority in respect of the employee’s tax obligation associated with the share-based 
payment. Therefore, the payment made shall be accounted for as a deduction from equity for the shares 
withheld, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value at the net settlement date of the equity 
instruments withheld. 
 
33H The exception in paragraph 33F does not apply to: 
 
 
(a) a share-based payment arrangement with a net settlement feature for which there is no obligation on 
the entity under tax laws or regulations to withhold an amount for an employee’s tax obligation 
associated with that share-based payment; or 
 
(b) any equity instruments that the entity withholds in excess of the employee’s tax obligation associated 
with the share-based payment (ie the entity withheld an amount of shares that exceeds the monetary 
value of the employee’s tax obligation). Such excess shares withheld shall be accounted for as a cash-
settled share-based payment when this amount is paid in cash (or other assets) to the employee. 
 
34 For share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide either the 
entity or the counterparty with the choice of whether the entity settles the transaction in cash (or 
other assets) or by issuing equity instruments, the entity shall account for that transaction, or the 
components of that transaction, as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction if, and to the 
extent that, the entity has incurred a liability to settle in cash or other assets, or as an equity-
settled share-based payment transaction if, and to the extent that, no such liability has been incurred. 
 
Disclosures 
… 
52 If the information required to be disclosed by this SLFRS Standard does not satisfy the principles in 
paragraphs 44, 46 and 50, the entity shall disclose such additional information as is necessary to satisfy them. 
For example, if an entity has classified any share-based payment transactions as equity-settled in accordance 
with paragraph 33F, the entity shall disclose an estimate of the amount that it expects to transfer to the tax 
authority to settle the employee’s tax obligation when it is necessary to inform users about the future cash flow 
effects associated with the share-based payment arrangement. 
 
Transitional provisions 
... 
59A An entity shall apply the amendments in paragraphs 30–31, 33–33H and B44A–B44C as set out below. 
Prior periods shall not be restated. 
 
(a) The amendments in paragraphs B44A–B44C apply only to modifications that occur on or after the date 
that an entity first applies the amendments. 
(b) The amendments in paragraphs 30–31 and 33–33D apply to share-based payment transactions 
that are unvested at the date that an entity first applies the amendments and to share-based payment 
transactions with a grant date on or after the date that an entity first applies the amendments. For 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
unvested share-based payment transactions granted prior to the date that an entity first applies the 
amendments, an entity shall remeasure the liability at that date and recognise the effect of the 
remeasurement in opening retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the 
reporting period in which the amendments are first applied. 
 
(c) The amendments in paragraphs 33E–33H and the amendment to paragraph 52 apply to share-based 
payment transactions that are unvested (or vested but unexercised), at the date that an entity first 
applies the amendments and to share-based payment transactions with a grant date on or after 
the date that an entity first applies the amendments. For unvested (or vested but unexercised) 
share-based payment transactions (or components thereof) that were previously classified as cash-
settled share-based payments but now are classified as equity-settled in accordance with the 
amendments, an entity shall reclassify the carrying value of the share-based payment liability to equity 
at the date that it first applies the amendments. 
 
59B Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph 59A, an entity may apply the amendments in paragraph 
63D retrospectively, subject to the transitional provisions in paragraphs 53–59 of this Standard, in 
accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors if and 
only if it is possible without hindsight. If an entity elects retrospective application, it must do so for all 
of the amendments made by Classification and Measurement of Share-based P ayment Tr ansactions 
(Amendments to SLFRS 2). 
 
Effective date 
 
… 
 
63 [Deleted] 
 
63D Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments to SLFRS 2), issued 
in September 2016, amended paragraphs 19, 30–31, 33, 52 and 63 and added paragraphs 33A–33H, 59A–
59B, 63D and B44A–B44C and their related headings. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the 
amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
 
In Appendix B, paragraphs B44A–B44C and their related heading are added. New text is underlined. 
 
Accounting for a modification of a share-based payment transaction that changes its 
classification from cash-settled to equity-settled 
 
B44A If the terms and conditions of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction are modified with the result that 
it becomes an equity-settled share-based payment transaction, the transaction is accounted for as such from 
the date of the modification. Specifically: 
 
(a) The equity-settled share-based payment transaction is measured by reference to the fair value of the 
equity instruments granted at the modification date. The equity-settled share- based payment transaction 
is recognised in equity on the modification date to the extent to which goods or services have been 
received. 
 
 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(b) The liability for the cash-settled share-based payment transaction as at the modification date is 
derecognised on that date. 
 
(c) Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability derecognised and the amount of equity 
recognised on the modification date is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
 
B44B If, as a result of the modification, the vesting period is extended or shortened, the application of the 
requirements in paragraph B44A reflect the modified vesting period. The requirements in paragraph B44A 
apply even if the modification occurs after the vesting period. 
 
B44C A cash-settled share-based payment transaction may be cancelled or settled (other than a transaction 
cancelled by forfeiture when the vesting conditions are not satisfied). If equity instruments are granted 
and, on that grant date, the entity identifies them as a replacement for the cancelled cash-settled share-
based payment, the entity shall apply paragraphs B44A and B44B. 
 
Amendments to SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 
 
Paragraph 3 is amended. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
 
 
Scope 
… 
3 This SLFRS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers, such as accounting for financial assets 
held by insurers and financial liabilities issued by insurers (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments), except: 
 
(a) paragraph  20A  permits  insurers  that  meet  specified  criteria  to  apply  a  temporary exemption from 
SLFRS 9; 
 
(b) paragraph 35B permits insurers to apply the overlay approach to designated financial assets; and 
 
(c) in the transitional provisions in paragraph 45 permits insurers to reclassify in specified circumstances 
some or all of their financial assets so that the assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
… 
 
Paragraph 5 is amended. New text is underlined. 
 
… 
 
5 For ease of reference, this SLFRS describes any entity that issues an insurance contract as an insurer, whether 
or not the issuer is regarded as an insurer for legal or supervisory purposes. All references in paragraphs 
3(a)–3(b), 20A–20Q, 35B–35N, 39B–39M and 46–49 to an insurer shall be read as also referring to an 
issuer of a financial instrument that contains a discretionary participation feature. 
… 
 
New headings are added below paragraphs 20, 20K and 20N. New paragraphs 20A–20Q are added. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
 
Recognition and measurement 
... 
Temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 
 
20A SLFRS 9 addresses the accounting for financial instruments and is effective for annual per iods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2018. However, for an insurer that meets the criteria in paragraph 
20B, this SLFRS provides a temporary exemption that permits, but does not require, the insurer to 
apply LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement rather than SLFRS 9 for annual 
periods begin ning before 1 Ja nuary 2021. An insurer that ap plies t he temporary e xemption from 
SLFRS 9 shall:  
(a) use the requirements in SLFRS 9 that are necessary to provide the disclosures required in 
paragraphs 39B–39J of this SLFRS; and 
 
(b) apply all other applicable SLFRSs to its financial instruments, except as described in paragraphs 
20A–20Q, 39B–39J and 46–47 of this SLFRS. 
 
20B An insurer may apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 if, and only if: 
 
(a) it has not previously applied any version of SLFRS 9, other than only the requirements for the 
presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit 
or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9; and 
 
(b) its activities are predominantly connected with insurance, as described in paragraph 20D, at 
its annual reporting date that immediately precedes 1 April 2016, or  at a subsequent annual 
reporting date as specified in paragraph 20G. 
 
20C An insurer applying the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 is permitted to elect to apply only the  
requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated as at fair value 
through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5– B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9. If an 
insurer elects to apply those requirements, it shall apply the relevant tra nsition provisions in SLFRS 9, 
disclose the fact that it has applied those requirements and pro vide on an ongoing basis the related 
disclosures set out in paragraphs 10–11 of SLFRS 7 (as amended by SLFRS 9 (2010)). 
 
20D An insurer’s activities are predominantly connected with insurance if, and only if: 
 
(a) the carrying amount of its liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of this SLFRS, which 
includes any deposit components or embedded derivatives unbundled from  insurance contracts 
applying paragraphs 7–12 of this SLFRS, is significant compared to the total carrying amount of all its 
liabilities; and 
 
(b) the percentage of the total carrying amount of its liabilities connected with insurance (see paragraph 20E) 
relative to the total carrying amount of all its liabilities is: 
 
(i) greater than 90 per cent; or 
 
(ii)  less than or equal to 90 per cent but greater than 80 per cent, and the insurer does not engage in a 
significant activity unconnected with insurance (see paragraph 20F). 
 
20E  For the purposes of applying paragraph 20D(b), liabilities connected with insurance comprise: 
 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(a) liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of this SLFRS, as described in paragraph 20D(a); 
 
(b) non-derivative investment contract liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss applying 
LKAS 39 (including those designated as at fair value through profit or loss  
 
(c) liabilities that arise because the insurer issues, or fulfils obligations arising from, the contracts in (a) 
and (b). Examples of s uch liabilities include derivatives used to mitigate r isks arising from those 
contracts and from the assets backing those contracts, relevant tax liabilities such as the deferred tax 
liabilities for taxable temporary differences on li abilities arising from those contracts, and debt 
instruments issued that are included in the insurer’s regulatory capital. 
 
20F In assessing whether it engages in a significant activity unconnected with insurance for the   purposes of 
applying paragraph 20D(b)(ii), an insurer shall consider: 
 
(a) only those activities from which it may earn income and incur expenses; and 
 
(b) quantitative or qualitative factors (or both), including publicly available information such as the industry 
classification that users of financial statements apply to the insurer. 
 
20G Paragraph 20B(b) requires an entity to assess whether it qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS  
9 at its annual reporting date that immediately precedes 1 April 2016. After that date: 
 
(a) an entity that previously qualified for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 shall reassess whether 
its activities are predominantly connected with insurance at a subsequent annual reporting date if, 
and only if, there was a change in the entity’s activities, as described in paragraphs 20H–20I, during 
the annual period that ended on that date 
 
(b) an entity that previously did not qualify for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 is permitted to 
reassess whether its activities are predominantly connected with insurance at  a subsequent annual 
reporting date before 31 December 2018 if, and only if, there was a change in the entity’s activities, as 
described in paragraphs 20H–20I, during the annual period that ended on that date. 
 
20H For the purposes of applying paragraph 20G, a change in an entity’s activities is a change that: 
 
(a) is determined by the entity’s senior management as a result of external or internal changes; 
 
(b) is significant to the entity’s operations; and 
 
(c) is demonstrable to external parties.  
 
Accordingly, such a change occurs only when the entity begins or ceases to perform an activity that is 
significant to its operations or significantly changes the magnitude of one of its activities; for example, 
when the entity has acquired, disposed of or terminated a business line. 
 
20I A change in an entity’s activities, as described in paragraph 20H, is expected to be very infrequent. 
The following are not changes in an entity’s activities for the purposes of applying paragraph 20G: 
 
(a) a change in the entity’s funding structure that in itself does not affect the activities from which the entity 
earns income and incurs expenses. 
 
(b) the entity’s plan to sell a business line, even if the assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale 
applying SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. A plan to sell a 
business line could change the entity’s activities and give rise to a reassessment in the future but has 
yet to affect the liabilities recognised on its statement of financial position. 
 
 
 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
20J If an entity no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 as a result of a reassessment 
(see paragraph 20G(a)), then the entity is permitted to continue to apply the temporary exemption from 
SLFRS 9 only until the end of the annual period that began immediately after that reassessment. 
Nevertheless, the entity must apply SLFRS 9 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021. For 
example, if an entity determines that it no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 
applying paragraph 20G(a) on 31 December 2018 (the end of its annual period), then the entity is permitted 
to continue to apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 only until 31 December 2019. 
 
20K An insurer that previously elected to apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 may at the beginning of 
any subsequent annual period irrevocably elect to apply SLFRS 9. 
 
First-time adopter 
 
20L A first-time adopter, as defined in SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards, may apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 described in paragraph 20A if, and only if, 
it meets the criteria described in paragraph 20B. In applying paragraph 20B(b), the first-time adopter shall 
use the carrying amounts determined applying SLFRSs at the date specified in that paragraph. 
 
20M SLFRS 1 contains requirements and exemptions applicable to a first-time adopter. Those requirements 
and exemptions (for example, paragraphs D16–D17 of SLFRS 1) do not override the  requirements in 
paragraphs 20A–20Q and 39B–39J of this SLFRS. For example, the requirements and exemptions in 
SLFRS 1 do not override the requirement that a first-time adopter must meet the criteria specified in 
paragraph 20L to apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9. 
 
20N A first-time adopter that discloses the information required by paragraphs 39B–39J shall use the  
requirements and exemptions in SLFRS 1 that are relevant to making the assessments required for those 
disclosures. 
 
Temporary exemption from specific requirements in LKAS 28 
 
20O Paragraphs 35–36 of LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures require an entity to  apply 
uniform accounting policies when using the equity method. Nevertheless, for annual pe riods beginning 
before 1 January 2021, an entity is permitted, but not required, to retain the relevant accounting policies 
applied by the associate or joint venture as follows: 
(a) the entity applies SLFRS 9 but the associate or joint venture applies the temporary exemption 
from SLFRS 9; or 
(b) the entity applies the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 but the associate or joint venture applies 
SLFRS 9. 
 
20P When an entity uses the equity method to account for its investment in an associate or joint venture: 
 
(a) if SLFRS 9 was previously applied in the financial statements used to apply the equity method to that 
associate or joint venture (after reflecting any adjustments made by the entity), then SLFRS 9 shall 
continue to be applied. 
 
(b) if the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 was previously applied in the financial statements 
used to apply the equity method to that associate or joint venture (after reflecting any adjustments 
made by the entity), then SLFRS 9 may be subsequently applied. 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
20Q An entity may apply paragraphs 20O and 20P(b) separately for each associate or joint venture. 
 
New paragraphs 35A–35N, 39B–39M and 46–49 are added. New headings are added below paragraphs 35A, 35K, 
35M, 39A, 39J, 45 and 47. 
 
Discretionary participation features in financial instruments 
… 
 
35A The temporary exemptions in paragraphs 20A, 20L and 20O and the overlay approach in paragraph 
35B are also available to an issuer of a financial instrument that contains a discretionary participation feature. 
Accordingly, all references in paragraphs 3(a)–3(b), 20A– 20Q, 35B–35N, 39B–39M and 46–49 to an 
insurer shall be read as also referring to an issuer of a  financial instrument that contains a discretionary 
participation feature. 
 
Presentation 
 
The overlay approach  
35B An insurer is permitted, but not required, to apply the overlay approach to designated financial 
assets. An insurer that applies the overlay approach shall: 
 
(a) reclassify between profit or loss and other comprehensive income an amount that results in the 
profit or loss at the end of the reporting period for the designated financial assets being the 
same as if the insurer had applied LKAS 39 to the designated financial assets. Accordingly, 
the amount reclassified is equal to the difference between: 
 
(i) the amount reported in profit or loss for the designated financial assets applying 
SLFRS 9; and 
 
(ii) the amount that would have been reported in profit or loss for the designated financial 
assets if the insurer had applied LKAS 39. 
(b) apply all other applicable SLFRSs to its financial instruments, except as described in 
paragraphs 35B–35N, 39K–39M and 48–49 of this SLFRS. 
 
35C An insurer may elect to apply the overlay approach described in paragraph 35B only when it first 
applies SLFRS 9, including when it first applies SLFRS 9 after previously applying: 
 
(a) the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 described in paragraph 20A; or 
 
(b) only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated 
as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5–
B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9. 
 
35D An insurer shall present the amount reclassified between profit or loss and other comprehensive inco me 
applying the overlay approach: 
 
(a) in profit or loss as a separate line item; and 
 
(b) in other comprehensive income as a separate component of other comprehensive income.  
 
 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
35E A financial asset is eligible for designation for the overlay approach if, and only if, the following 
criteria are met: 
 
(a) it is measured at fair value through profit or loss applying SLFRS 9 but would not have been 
measured at fair value through profit or loss in its entirety applying LKAS 39; and 
 
 
(b) it is not held in respect of an activity that is unconnected with contracts within the scope of this SLFRS. 
Examples of financial assets that would not be eligible for the overlay approach are those assets held 
in respect of banking activities or financial assets held in funds relating to investment contracts that are 
outside the scope of this SLFRS. 
 
35F An insurer may designate an eligible financial asset for the overlay approach when it elects to apply the 
overlay approach (see paragraph 35C). Subsequently, it may designate an eligible financial asset for the 
overlay approach when, and only when: 
 
(a) that asset is initially recognised; or 
 
(b) that asset newly meets the criterion in paragraph 35E(b) having previously not met that criterion. 
 
35G An insurer is permitted to designate eligible financial assets for the overlay approach applying paragraph 
35F on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
 
35H When relevant, for the purposes of applying the overlay approach to a newly designated financial asset 
applying paragraph 35F(b): 
 
(a) its fair value at the date of designation shall be its new amortised cost carrying amount; and 
 
(b) the effective interest rate shall be determined based on its fair value at the date of designation. 
 
35I An entity shall continue to apply the overlay approach to a designated financial asset until that financial asset 
is derecognised. However, an entity: 
 
(a) shall de-designate a financial asset when the financial asset no longer meets the criterion in paragraph 
35E(b). For example, a financial asset will no longer meet that criterion when an entity transfers that 
asset so that it is held in respect of its banking activities or when an entity ceases to be an insurer. 
 
(b) may, at the beginning of any annual period, stop applying the overlay approach to all designated 
financial assets. An entity that elects to stop applying the overlay approach shall apply LKAS 8 to 
account for the change in accounting policy. 
 
35J  When an entity de-designates a financial asset applying paragraph 35I(a), it shall reclassify from  
accumulated other comprehensive income to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) any 
balance relating to that financial asset. 
 
35K If an entity stops using the overlay approach applying the election in paragraph 35I(b) or because it is 
no longer an insurer, it shall not subsequently apply the overlay approach. An insurer that has elected to 
apply the overlay approach (see paragraph 35C) but has no eligible financial assets (see paragraph 35E) may 
subsequently apply the overlay approach when it has eligible financial assets. 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
Interaction with other requirements 
 
35L  Paragraph 30 of this SLFRS permits a practice that is sometimes described as ’shadow accounting’. 
If an insurer applies the overlay approach, shadow accounting may be applicable. 
 
35M  Reclassifying an amount between profit or loss and other comprehensive income applying  paragraph 
35B may have consequential effects for including other amounts in other comprehensive income, such 
as income taxes. An insurer shall apply the relevant SLFRS, such as LKAS 12 Income Taxes, to determine 
any such consequential effects. 
 
First-time adopter 
 
35N If a first-time adopter elects to apply the overlay approach, it shall restate comparative information 
to reflect the overlay approach if, and only if, it restates comparative information to comply with SLFRS 9 
(see paragraphs E1–E2 of SLFRS 1). 
 
… 
 
Disclosure 
… 
 
Disclosures about the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 
 
39B An insurer that elects to apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 shall disclose information to 
enable users of financial statements: 
 
(a) to understand how the insurer qualified for the temporary exemption; and 
(b) to compare insurers applying the temporary exemption with entities applying SLFRS 9. 
 
39C To comply with paragraph 39B(a), an insurer shall disclose the fact that it is applying the temporary 
exemption from SLFRS 9 and how the insurer concluded on the date specified in paragraph 20B(b) that it 
qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9, including: 
 
(a) if the carrying amount of its liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of this SLFRS (ie 
those liabilities described in paragraph 20E(a)) was less than or equal to 90 per cent of the total carrying 
amount of all its liabilities, the nature and carrying amounts of the liabilities connected with insurance 
that are not liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of this SLFRS (ie those liabilities 
described in paragraphs 20E(b) and 20E(c)); 
 
(b) if the percentage of the total carrying amount of its liabilities connected with insurance relative to the 
total carrying amount of all its liabilities was less than or equal to 90 per cent but greater than 80 per 
cent, how the insurer determined that it did not engage in a s ignificant activity unconnec ted with 
insurance, including what information it considered; and 
 
(c) if the insurer qualified for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 on the basis of a reassessment 
applying paragraph 20G(b): 
 
(i) the reason for the reassessment; 
 
(ii) the date on which the relevant change in its activities occurred; and 
 
(iii) a detailed explanation of the change in its activities and a qualitative description of the effect of 
that change on the insurer’s financial statements. 
 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
39D If, applying paragraph 20G(a), an entity concludes that its activities are no longer predominantly 
connected with insurance, it shall disclose the following information in each reporting period before it 
begins to apply SLFRS 9: 
 
(a) the fact that it no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9; 
 
(b) the date on which the relevant change in its activities occurred; and 
 
(c) a detailed explanation of the change in its activities and a qualitative description of the effect of that 
change on the entity’s financial statements. 
 
39E To comply with paragraph 39B(b), an insurer shall disclose the fair value at the end of the reporting and 
the amount of change in the fair value during that period for the following two groups of  financial assets 
separately: 
 
(a) financial assets with contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that a re solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding (ie financial assets that meet 
the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) of SLFRS 9), excluding any financial asset that 
meets the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9, or that is managed and whose performance is 
evaluated on a fair value basis (see paragraph B4.1.6 of SLFRS 9). 
 
(b) all financial assets other than those specified in paragraph 39E(a); that is, any financial asset: 
 
(i) with contractual terms that do not give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding; 
 
(ii) that meets the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9; or 
 
(iii) that is managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.  
 
39F When disclosing the information in paragraph 39E, the insurer: 
(a) may deem the carrying amount of the financial asset measured applying LKAS 39 to be a reasonable 
approximation of its fair value if the insurer is not required to disclose its fair value applying paragraph 
29(a) of SLFRS 7 (eg short-term trade receivables); and 
 
(b) shall consider the level of detail necessary to enable users of financial statements to understand the 
characteristics of the financial assets. 
 
39G To comply with paragraph 39B(b), an insurer shall disclose information about the credit risk exposure, 
including significant credit risk concentrations, inherent in the financial assets described in paragraph 
39E(a). At a minimum, an insurer shall disclose the following information for those financial assets at the 
end of the reporting period: 
 
(a) by credit risk rating grades as defined in SLFRS 7, the carrying amounts applying LKAS 39 (in the case 
of financial assets measured at amortised cost, before adjusting for any impairment allowances). 
 
(b) for the financial assets described in paragraph 39E(a) that do not have low credit risk at the end of the 
reporting period, the fair value and the carrying amount applying LKAS 39 (in the case of financial 
assets measured at amortised cost, before adjusting for any impairment allowances). For the purposes 
of this disclosure, paragraph B5.5.22 of SLFRS 9 provides the relevant requirements for assessing 
whether the credit risk on a financial instrument is considered low. 
 
 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
39H To comply with paragraph 39B(b), an insurer shall disclose information about where a user of financial 
statements can obtain any publicly available SLFRS 9 information that relates to an entity within the group 
that is not provided in the group’s consolidated financial statements for the relevant reporting period. For 
example, such SLFRS 9 information could be obtained from the publicly available individual or separate 
financial statements of an entity within the group that has applied SLFRS 9. 
 
39I If an entity elected to apply the exemption in paragraph 20O from particular requirements in LKAS 28, it 
shall disclose that fact. 
 
39J    If an entity applied the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 when accounting for its investment in an associate 
or joint venture using the equity method (for example, see paragraph 20O(a)), the entity shall disclose the 
following, in addition to the information required by SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: 
 
(a) the information described by paragraphs 39B–39H for each associate or joint venture that is material 
to the entity. The amounts disclosed shall be those included in the SLFRS financial statements of the 
associate or joint venture after reflecting any adjustments made by the entity when using the equity 
method (see paragraph B14(a) of SLFRS 12), rather than the entity’s share of those amounts. 
 
(b) the quantitative information described by paragraphs 39B–39H in aggregate for all individually 
immaterial associates or joint ventures. The aggregate amounts: 
 
(i) disclosed shall be the entity’s share of those amounts; and 
 
(ii) for associates shall be disclosed separately from the aggregate amounts disclosed for joint 
ventures. 
 
Disclosures about the overlay approach  
39K An insurer that applies the overlay approach shall disclose information to enable users of financial 
statements to understand: 
 
(a) how the total amount reclassified between profit or loss and other comprehensive income in the 
reporting period is calculated; and 
 
(b) the effect of that reclassification on the financial statements. 
 
39L To comply with paragraph 39K, an insurer shall disclose: 
 
(a) the fact that it is applying the overlay approach; 
 
(b) the carrying amount at the end of the reporting period of financial assets to which the insurer applies 
the overlay approach by class of financial asset; 
 
(c) the basis for designating financial assets for the overlay approach, including an explanation of any 
designated financial assets that are held outside the legal entity that issues contracts within the scope 
of this SLFRS; 
 
(d) an explanation of the total amount reclassified between profit or loss and other comprehensive income 
in the reporting period in a way that enables users of financial statements to understand how that 
amount is derived, including: 
 
(i) the amount reported in profit or loss for the designated financial assets applying SLFRS 9; and 
 
(ii) the amount that would have been reported in profit or loss for the designated financial assets 
if the insurer had applied LKAS 39. 
 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(e) the effect of the reclassification described in paragraphs 35B and 35M on each affected line item in 
profit or loss; and 
 
(f) if during the reporting period the insurer has changed the designation of financial assets: 
(i) the amount reclassified between profit or loss and other comprehensive income in the reporting 
period relating to newly designated financial assets applying the overlay approach (see paragraph 
35F(b)); 
 
(ii) the amount that would have been reclassified between profit or loss and other comprehensive 
income in the reporting period if the financial assets had not been de-designated (see paragraph 
35I(a)); and 
 
(iii) the amount reclassified in the reporting period to profit or loss from accumulated oth er 
comprehensive income for financial assets that have been de-designated (see paragraph 35J). 
 
39M If an entity applied the overlay approach when accounting for its investment in an associate or joint venture 
using the equity method, the entity shall disclose the following, in addition to the information required by 
SLFRS 12: 
 
(a) the information described by paragraphs 39K–39L for each associate or joint venture that is material to 
the entity. The amounts disclosed shall be those included in the SLFRS financial statements of the 
associate or joint venture after reflecting any adjustments made by the entity when using the equity 
method (see paragraph B14(a) of SLFRS 12), rather than the entity’s share of those amounts. 
 
(b) the quantitative information described by paragraphs 39K–39L(d) and 39L(f), and the effect of the 
reclassification described in paragraph 35B on profit or loss and other comprehensive income in 
aggregate for all individually immaterial associates or joint ventures. The aggregate amounts: 
 
(i) disclosed shall be the entity’s share of those amounts; and 
 
(ii) for associates shall be disclosed separately from the aggregate amounts disclosed for joint 
ventures. 
... 
 
Effective date and transition 
 
... 
 
Applying SLFRS 4 with SLFRS 9  
 
Temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 
 
46 Applying SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments with SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments to SLFRS 4), 
issued in October 2016, amended paragraphs 3 and 5, and added paragraphs 20A– 20Q, 35A and 39B–39J 
and headings after paragraphs 20, 20K, 20N and 39A. An entity shall apply those amendments, which permit 
insurers that meet specified criteria to apply a te mporary exemption from SLFRS 9, for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
 
 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
47 An entity that discloses the information required by paragraphs 39B–39J shall use the transitional provisions 
in SLFRS 9 that are relevant to making the assessments required for those disclosures. The date of initial 
application for that purpose shall be deemed to be the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or 
after 1 January 2018. 
 
 
The overlay approach 
 
48 Applying SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments with SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments to SLFRS 4), 
issued in October 2016, amended paragraphs 3 and 5, and added paragraphs 35A– 35N and 39K–39M and 
headings after paragraphs 35A, 35K, 35M and 39J. An entity shall apply those amendments, which permit 
insurers to apply the overlay approach to designated financial assets, when it first applies SLFRS 9 (see 
paragraph 35C). 
 
49 An entity that elects to apply the overlay approach shall: 
 
(a) apply that approach retrospectively to designated financial assets on transition to SLFRS 9. Accordingly, 
for example, the entity shall recognise as an adjustment to the opening balance of accumulated other 
comprehensive income an amount equal to the difference be tween the fair value of the designated 
financial assets determined applying SLFRS 9 and their carrying amount determined applying LKAS 
39. 
 
(b) restate co mparative information to  reflect the o verlay approach if, and only if, the entity re states 
comparative information applying SLFRS 9. 
 
 Amendments to SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers  
 
  
 Distinct goods or services  
 
26  Depending on the contract, promised goods or services may include, but are not limited to, the following:  
 
(a)  sale of goods produced by an entity (for example, inventory of a manufacturer);  
 
(b)  resale of goods purchased by an entity (for example, merchandise of a retailer);  
 
(c)  resale of rights to goods or services purchased by an entity (for example, a ticket resold by an entity 
acting as a principal, as described in paragraphs B34–B38);  
 
(d)  performing a contractually agreed-upon task (or tasks) for a customer;  
 
(e)  providing a service of standing ready to provide goods or services (for example, unspecified updates 
to software that are provided on a when -and-if-available basis) or of making goo ds or services 
available for a customer to use as and when the customer decides;  
 
(f)  providing a service of arranging for another party to transfer goods or services to a customer (for 
example, acting as an agent of another party, as described in paragraphs B34–B38);  
 
Paragraphs 26, 27 and 29 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is 
underlined. Paragraphs 28 and 30 have not been amended but have been included for ease of 
reference. 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(g)  granting rights to goods or services to be provided in the future that a customer can resell or provide 
to its customer (for example, an entity selling a product to a retailer promises to transfer an additional 
good or service to an individual who purchases the product from the retailer);  
 
(h)  constructing, manufacturing or developing an asset on behalf of a customer;  
 
(i)  granting licences (see paragraphs B52–B63B); and  
 
(j)  granting options to purchase additional goods or services (when those options provide a customer with 
a material right, as described in paragraphs B39–B43).  
 
27  A good or service that is promised to a customer is distinct if both of the following criteria are met:  
 
(a)  the customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources 
that are readily available to the customer (ie the good or service is capable of being distinct); and  
 
(b)  the entity’s promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other 
promises in the contract (ie the promise to transfer the good or service is distinct within the context of 
the contract).  
 
28  A customer can benefit from a good or service in accordance with paragraph 27(a) if the good or service 
could be used, consumed, sold for an amount that is greater than scrap value or otherwise held in a way that 
generates economic benefits. For some goods  or services, a customer may be able to benefit from a good or 
service on its own. For other goods or services, a customer may be able to benefit from the good or service 
only in conjunction with other readily available resources. A readily available resou rce is a good or service 
that is sold separately (by the entity or another entity) or a resource that the customer has already obtained 
from the entity (including goods or services that the entity will have already transferred to the customer under 
the contract) or from other transactions or events. Various factors may provide evidence that the customer 
can benefit from a good or service either on its own or in conjunction with other readily available resources. 
For example, the fact that the entity regularly sells a good or service separately would indicate that a customer 
can benefit from the good or service on its own or with other readily available resources.  
 
29  In assessing whether an entity’s promises to transfer goods or services to the customer ar e separately 
identifiable in accordance with paragraph 27(b), the objective is to determine whether the nature of the 
promise, within the context of the contract, is to transfer each of those goods or services individually or, 
instead, to transfer a combined item or items to which the promised goods or services are inputs. Factors that 
indicate that an entity’s promise  two or more promises  to transfer a good or service  goods or services  to a 
customer is are not separately identifiable (in accordance with paragraph 27(b)) include, but are not limited 
to, the following:  
 
(a)  the entity does not provide  provides a significant service of integrating the good or service  goods or 
services with other goods or services promised in the contract into a bundle of goo ds or services that 
represent the combined output or outputs for which the customer has contracted. In other words, the 
entity is not using the good or service as an input  goods or services as inputs  to produce or deliver the 
combined output or outputs specified by the customer. A combined output or outputs might include more 
than one phase, element or unit.  
 
(b)  one or more of the good or service does not goods or services significantly modify or customise modifies 
or customises, or are significantly modified or customised by, one or more of the other  another good or 
service goods or services promised in the contract.  
 
(c)  the good or service is not  goods or services are  highly interdependent on, or highly interrelated with, 
other goods or services promised in the contract. For example, the fact that a customer could decide to 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
not purchase the good or service without significantly affecting the other promised goods or services in 
the contract might indicate that the good or serv ice is not highly dependent on, or highly interrelated 
with, those other promised goods or services. In other words, each of the goods or services is significantly 
affected by one or more of the other goods or services in the contract. For example, in some  cases, two 
or more goods or services are significantly affected by each other because the entity would not be able 
to fulfil its promise by transferring each of the goods or services independently.   
 
30  If a promised good or service is not distinct, an entity shall combine that good or service with other promised 
goods or services until it identifies a bundle of goods or services that is distinct. In some cases, that would 
result in the entity accounting for all the goods or services promised in a contract as a single performance 
obligation.  
 
Appendix B Application Guidance  
…  
 
B1  This application guidance is organised into the following categories:  
 
(a) …  
 
 (i)  licensing (paragraphs B52–B63B);  
 
 (j)  …  
 Principal versus agent considerations  
 
B34 When another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, the entity shall determine 
whether the nature of its promise is a performance obligation to provide the specified goods or services itself 
(ie the entity is a principal) or to arrange for those goods or services to be provided by  the other party to 
provide those goods or services  (ie the entity is an agent). An entity determines whether it is a principa l or 
an agent for each specified good or service promised to the customer. A specified good or service is a distinct 
good or service (or a distinct bundle of goods or services) to be provided to the customer (see paragraphs 27–
30). If a contract with a cus tomer includes more than one specified good or service, an entity could be a 
principal for some specified goods or services and an agent for others.  
 
B34A To determine the nature of its promise (as described in paragraph B34), the entity shall:   
 
(a)  identify the specified goods or services to be provided to the customer (which, for example, could be 
a right to a good or service to be provided by another party (see paragraph 26)); and   
 
(b)  assess whether it controls (as described in paragraph 33) eac h specified good or service before that 
good or service is transferred to the customer.  
 
B35 An entity is a principal if the entity it controls a promised the specified good or service before the entity 
transfers the that good or service is transferred  to a customer. However, an entity is does not necessarily 
acting as a principal  control a specified good  if the entity obtains legal title of a product  to that good  only 
momentarily before legal title is transferred to a customer. An entity that is a princip al in a contract  may 
satisfy a its performance obligation by to provide the specified good or service itself or it may engage another 
party (for example, a subcontractor) to satisfy some or all of a the performance obligation on its behalf. When 
In Appendix B, paragraphs B1, B34 –B38, B52–B53 and B 58 are amended and paragraphs B34A, B35A, 
B35B, B37A, B59A, B63A and B63B are added. Paragraph B57 is deleted. Deleted text is struck through 
and new text is underlined. Paragraphs B54–B56, B59 and B60–B63 have not been amended but have been 
included for ease of reference.  
 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
an entity that is a principal satisfies a performance obligation, the entity recognises revenue in the gross 
amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services transferred.  
 
B35A When another party is involv ed in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is a principal 
obtains control of any one of the following:  
 
(a)  a good or another asset from the other party that it then transfers to the customer.   
 
(b)  a right to a service to be perfor med by the other party, which gives the entity the ability to direct that 
party to provide the service to the customer on the entity’s behalf.  
 
(c)  a good or service from the other party that it then combines with other goods or services in providing 
the specified good or service to the customer. For example, if an entity provides a significant service 
of integrating goods or services (see paragraph 29(a)) provided by another party into the specified 
good or service for which the customer has contracted, the entity controls the specified good or service 
before that good or service is transferred to the customer. This is because the entity first obtains control 
of the inputs to the specified good or service (which includes goods or services from other parties) and 
directs their use to create the combined output that is the specified good or service.   
 
B35B When (or as) an entity that is a principal satisfies a performance obligation, the entity recognises  revenue 
in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good 
or service transferred.  
 
B36  An entity is an agent if the entity’s performance obligation is to arrange for the provision of goods or services 
the specified good or service by another party. An entity that is an agent does not control the specified good 
or service provided by another party before that good or service is transferred to the customer. When (or as) 
an entity that is an agent sat isfies a performance obligation, the entity recognises revenue in the amount of 
any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the other party to 
provide its the specified goods or services to be provided by the other party. An entity’s fee or commission 
might be the net amount of consideration that the entity retains after paying the other party the consideration 
received in exchange for the goods or services to be provided by that party.  
 
B37 Indicators that an ent ity is an agent (and therefore does not control  controls the specified good or service 
before it is provided transferred to a the customer) (and is therefore a principal (see paragraph B35)) include, 
but are not limited to, the following:  
 
(a)  another party the entity  is primarily responsible for fulfilling the contract; promise to provide the 
specified good or service. This typically includes responsibility for the acceptability of the specified 
good or service (for example, primary responsibility for  the good or service meeting customer 
specifications). If the entity is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified 
good or service, this may indicate that the other party involved in providing the specified good or service 
is acting on the entity’s behalf.  
 
(b)  the entity does not have has inventory risk before or after the goods have  the specified good or service 
has been ordered by transferred to a customer, during shipping or on return;  or after transfer of control 
to the customer (for example, if the customer has a right of return). For example, if the entity obtains, or 
commits itself to obtain, the specified good or service before obtaining a contract with a customer, that 
may indicate that the entity has the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining 
benefits from, the good or service before it is transferred to the customer.  
 
(c)  the entity does not have  has discretion in establishing prices the price for the other party’s goods or 
services and, therefore, the benefit that the entity can receive from those goods or services is limited;  

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
specified good or service. Establishing the price that the customer pays for the specified good or service 
may indicate that the entity has the ability to direct the use of that good or service and obtain substantially 
all of the remaining benefits. However, an agent can have discretion in establishing prices in some cases. 
For example, an agent may have some flexibility in setting prices in order to generate additional revenue 
from its service of arranging for goods or services to be provided by other parties to customers.   
 
(d)  the entity’s consideration is in the form of a commission; and  
(e)  the entity is not exposed to credit risk for the amount re ceivable from a customer in exchange for the 
other party’s goods or services.  
 
B37A The indicators in paragraph B37 may be more or less relevant to the assessment of control depending on 
the nature of the specified good or service and the terms and conditions of the contract. In addition, different 
indicators may provide more persuasive evidence in different contracts.  
 
B38  If another entity assumes the entity’s performance obligations and contractual rights in the contract so that 
the entity is no longer obliged to satisfy the performance obligation to transfer the promised specified good 
or service to the customer (ie the entity is no longer acting as the principal), the entity shall not recognise 
revenue for that performance obligation. Instead, the entity shall evaluate whether to recognise revenue for 
satisfying a performance obligation to obtain a contract for the other party (ie whether the entity is acting 
as an agent).  
 …  
  
 Licensing  
 
B52 A licence establishes a customer’s rights to the intellectual property of an entity. Licences  of intellectual 
property may include, but are not limited to, licences of any of the following:  
 
(a) software and technology;  
 
(b) motion pictures, music and other forms of media and entertainment;  
 
(c) franchises; and  
 
(d) patents, trademarks and copyrights.  
 
B53 In addition to a promise to grant a licence (or licences) to a customer, an entity may also promise to transfer 
other goods or services to the customer. Those promises may be explicitly stated in the contract or implied 
by an entity’s customary business practices, published policies or specific statements (see paragraph 24). As 
with other types of contracts, when a contract with a customer includes a promise to grant a licence (or 
licences) in addition to other promised goods or services, an entity applies paragraphs 22–30 to identify each 
of the performance obligations in the contract.  
 
B54 If the promise to grant a licence is not distinct from other promised goods or services in the contract in 
accordance with paragraphs 26–30, an entity shall account for the promise to grant a licence and those other 
promised goods or services together as a single performance obligation. Examples of licences that are not 
distinct from other goods or services promised in the contract include the following:  
 
(a) a licence that forms a component of a tangible good and that is int egral to the functionality of the good; 
and  
 
(b) a licence that the customer can benefit from only in conjunction with a related service (such as an online 
service provided by the entity that enables, by granting a licence, the customer to access content) .  
 
 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    21A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
B55 If the licence is not distinct, an entity shall apply paragraphs 31 –38 to determine whether the performance 
obligation (which includes the promised licence) is a performance obligation that is satisfied over time or 
satisfied at a point in time.  
 
B56  If the promise to grant the licence is distinct from the other promised goods or services in the contract and, 
therefore, the promise to grant the licence is a separate performance obligation, an entity shall determine 
whether the licence transfers t o a customer either at a point in time or over time. In making this 
determination, an entity shall consider whether the nature of the entity’s promise in granting the licence to 
a customer is to provide the customer with either:  
 
(a)  a right to access the entity’s intellectual property as it exists throughout the licence period; or  
 
(b)  a right to use the entity’s intellectual property as it exists at the point in time at which the licence is 
granted.  
 
 Determining the nature of the entity’s promise  
 
B57 To determine whether an entity’s promise to grant a licence provides a customer with either a right to access 
an entity’s intellectual property or a right to use an entity’s intellectual property, an entity shall consider 
whether a customer can direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, a licence 
at the point in time at which the licence is granted. A customer cannot direct the use of, and obtain 
substantially all of the remaining benefits from, a licence at the poin t in time at which the licence is granted 
if the intellectual property to which the customer has rights changes throughout the licence period. The 
intellectual property will change (and thus affect the entity’s assessment of when the customer controls the 
licence) when the entity continues to be involved with its intellectual property and the entity undertakes 
activities that significantly affect the intellectual property to which the customer has rights. In these cases, 
the licence provides the customer with a right to access the entity’s intellectual property (see paragraph B58). 
In contrast, a customer can direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the 
licence at the point in time at which the licence is granted if the  intellectual property to which the customer 
has rights will not change (see paragraph B61). In those cases, any activities undertaken by the entity merely 
change its own asset (ie the underlying intellectual property), which may affect the entity’s ability to provide 
future licences; however, those activities would not affect the determination of what the licence provides or 
what the customer controls. [Deleted]  
 
B58 The nature of an entity’s promise in granting a licence  is a promise to provide a right to access the entity’s 
intellectual property if all of the following criteria are met:  
 
(a)  the contract requires, or the customer reasonably expects, that the entity will undertake activities that 
significantly affect th e intellectual property to which the customer has rights (see paragraphs B59 and 
B59A);  
 
(b)  the rights granted by the licence  directly expose the customer to any positive or negative effects of the 
entity’s activities identified in paragraph B58(a); and  
 
(c)  those activities do not result in the transfer of a good or a service to the customer as those activities occur 
(see paragraph 25).  
 
B59 Factors that may indicate that a customer could reasonably expect that an entity will undertake activities that 
significantly affect the intellectual property include the entity’s customary business practices, published 
policies or specific statements. Although not determinative, the existence of a shared economic interest (for 
example, a sales -based royalty) between the entity and the customer related to the intellectual property to 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
which the customer has rights may also indicate that the customer could reasonably expect that the entity will 
undertake such activities.  
 
B59A  An entity’s activities significantly affect the intellectual property to which the customer has rights when 
either:  
 
(a)  those activities are expected to significan tly change the form (for example, the design or content) or 
the functionality (for example, the ability to perform a function or task) of the intellectual property; or  
 
(b)  the ability of the customer to obtain benefit from the intellectual property is substantially derived from, 
or dependent upon, those activities. For example, the benefit from a brand is often derived from, or 
dependent upon, the entity’s ongoing activities that support or maintain the value of the intellectual 
property.  
 
Accordingly, if the intellectual property to which the customer has rights has significant stand -alone 
functionality, a substantial portion of the benefit of that intellectual property is derived from that 
functionality. Consequently, the ability of the customer to obtain benefit from that intellectual property would 
not be significantly affected by the entity’s activities unless those activities significantly change its form or 
functionality. Types of intellectual property that often have significant stand -alone functionality include 
software, biological compounds or drug formulas, and completed media content (for example, films, 
television shows and music recordings).  
 
B60 If the criteria in paragraph B58 are met, an entity shall account for the promise t o grant a licence as a 
performance obligation satisfied over time because the customer will simultaneously receive and consume 
the benefit from the entity’s performance of providing access to its intellectual property as the performance 
occurs (see paragra ph 35(a)). An entity shall apply paragraphs 39 –45 to select an appropriate method to 
measure its progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation to provide access.  
 
B61 If the criteria in paragraph B58 are not met, the nature of an e ntity’s promise is to provide a right to use the 
entity’s intellectual property as that intellectual property exists (in terms of form and functionality) at the 
point in time at which the licence is granted to the customer. This means that the customer can direct the use 
of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from, the licence at the point in time at which the 
licence transfers. An entity shall account for the promise to provide a right to use the entity’s intellectual 
property as a perf ormance obligation satisfied at a point in time. An entity shall apply paragraph 38 to 
determine the point in time at which the licence transfers to the customer. However, revenue cannot be 
recognised for a licence that provides a right to use the entity’s  intellectual property before the beginning of 
the period during which the customer is able to use and benefit from the licence. For example, if a software 
licence period begins before an entity provides (or otherwise makes available) to the customer a cod e that 
enables the customer to immediately use the software, the entity would not recognise revenue before that 
code has been provided (or otherwise made available).  
 
B62 An entity shall disregard the following factors when determining whether a licence provides a right to access 
the entity’s intellectual property or a right to use the entity’s intellectual property:  
 
(a)  Restrictions of time, geographical region or use —those restrictions define the attributes of the 
promised licence, rather than define whether the entity satisfies its performance obligation at a point 
in time or over time.  
 
(b)  Guarantees provided by the entity that it has a valid patent to intellectual property and that it will 
defend that patent from unauthorised use —a promise to def end a patent right is not a performance 
obligation because the act of defending a patent protects the value of the entity’s intellectual property 
assets and provides assurance to the customer that the licence transferred meets the specifications of 
the licence promised in the contract.  

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
 
 Sales-based or usage-based royalties  
 
B63 Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs 56 –59, an entity shall recognise revenue for a sales -based 
or usage-based royalty promised in exchange for a licence of intellectual property only when (or as) the later 
of the following events occurs:  
 
(a)  the subsequent sale or usage occurs; and  
 
(b)  the performance obligation to which some or all of the sales -based or usage -based royalty has been 
allocated has been satisfied (or partially satisfied).  
 
B63A The requirement for a sales-based or usage-based royalty in paragraph B63 applies when the royalty relates 
only to a licence of intellectual property or when a licence of intellectual property is the predominant item 
to which the royalty relates (for example, the licence of intellectual property may be the predominant item 
to which the royalty relates when the entity has a reasonable expectation that the customer would ascribe 
significantly more value to the licence than to the other goods or services to which the royalty relates).   
 
B63B When the requirement in paragraph B63A is met, revenue from a sales -based or usage-based royalty shall 
be recognised wholly in accordance with paragraph B63. When the requirement in paragraph B63A is not 
met, the requirements on variable consideration in paragraphs 50 –59 apply to the sales -based or usage -
based royalty.  
 
 
 
 
Effective date  
…  
 
C1B Clarifications to SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in November 2016, amended 
paragraphs 26, 27, 29, B1, B34 –B38, B52–B53, B58, C2, C5 and C7, deleted paragraph B57 and added 
paragraphs B34A, B35A, B35B, B37A, B59A, B63A, B63B, C7A and C8A. An entity shall apply  those 
amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier application is 
permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.  
 
Transition  
 
C2  For the purposes of the transition requirements in paragraphs C3–C8A:  
 
(a)  the date of initial application is the start of the reporting period in which an entity first applies this 
Standard; and  
 
(b) a completed contract is a contract for which the ent ity has transferred all of the goods or services 
identified in accordance with LKAS 11 Construction Contracts , LKAS 18 Revenue and related 
Interpretations.  
 
C3  An entity shall apply this Standard using one of the following two methods:  
 
(a)  retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, subject to the expedients in paragraph C5; or  
 
In Appendix C, paragraphs C2, C5 and C7 are amended and paragraphs C1B, C7A and C8A are added. 
Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined. Paragraphs C3 and C6 have not been amended 
but have been included for ease of reference.  
 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(b)  retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially  applying this Standard recognised at the date of 
initial application in accordance with paragraphs C7–C8.  
 …  
 
C5  An entity may use one or more of the following practical expedients when applying this Standard 
retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3(a):  
 
(a)  for completed contracts, an entity need not restate contracts that:  
 
(i)  begin and end within the same annual reporting period; or  
 
(ii)  are completed contracts at the beginning of the earliest period presented.   
 
(b)  for completed contracts that have variable consideration, an entity may use the transaction price at the 
date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the 
comparative reporting periods; and.  
 
(c)  for contracts that were modified before the beginning of the earliest period presented, an entity need not 
retrospectively restate the contract for those contract modifications in accordance with paragraphs 20 –
21. Instead, an entity shall reflect the aggregate effect of all of the modifications that occur before the 
beginning of the earliest period presented when:  
 
(i)  identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations;  
 
(ii)  determining the transaction price; and  
 
(iii)  allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations.  
 
(c)(d) for all reporting periods presented before the date of initial application, an entity need not disclose the 
amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation 
of when the entity expects to recognise that amount as revenue (see paragraph 120).  
 
C6  For any of the practical expedients in paragraph C5 that an entity uses, the entity shall apply that expedient 
consistently to all contracts within all reporting periods presented. In addition, the entity shall disclose all of 
the following information:  
 
(a)  the expedients that have been used; and  
 
(b)  to the extent reasonably possible, a qualitative assessment of the estimated effect of applying each of 
those expedients.  
 
C7  If an entity elects to apply this Standard retrospectively in accordance wit h paragraph C3(b), the entity shall 
recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of 
retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes  
the date of initial application. Under this transition method, an entity shall may elect to apply this Standard 
retrospectively only to contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (for 
example, 1 January 2018 for an entity with a 31 December year-end).  
 
C7A An entity applying this Standard retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3(b) may also use the 
practical expedient described in paragraph C5(c), either:  
 
(a)  for all contract modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented; or  
 
(b)  for all contract modifications that occur before the date of initial application.  
 
If an entity uses this practical expedient, the entity shall apply the expedient consistently to all contracts and 
disclose the information required by paragraph C6.  

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08    25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
 
 …  
 
C8A An entity shall apply Clarifications to SLFRS 15 (see paragraph C1B) retrospectively in accordance with 
LKAS 8. In applying the amendments retrospectively, an entity shall apply the amendments a s if they had 
been included in SLFRS 15 at the date of initial application. Consequently, an entity does not apply the 
amendments to reporting periods or to contracts to which the requirements of SLFRS 15 are not applied in 
accordance with paragraphs C2 –C8. For example, if an entity applies SLFRS 15 in accordance with 
paragraph C3(b) only to contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application, the entity 
does not restate the completed contracts at the date of initial application of SLFRS 15 for the effects of these 
amendments.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 