

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
793
793
wxl 1"706 - 2011 uehs ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'05'13
No. 1,706 – FRIDAY , MAY 13, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 795
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th May, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th May,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,705 of 06.05.2011 was not published.
N.B.— (i) D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 08th April, 2011.
(ii) Notaries (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of 21st April, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
794
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
795
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
TRINCOMALEE DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th Jun e, 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th April, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division application is called applications should be sent
Trincomalee T rincomalee (Town and Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages The District Secretary/The Additional
Gravets) of China Bay Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Trincomalee
05–205
–––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
APPLICATIONS are being called from the applicants possess suitable qualifications for the undermentioned vacancies existing in the
Department of Information :–
Technical Assistant
Assistant Photographer
01. Procedures of forwarding applications  :
01.01 According to the following format of the application, it should be prepared in the 'A4' paper using both sides, duly
filled in and should be forwarded by registered post to the “Director General of Government Information, Department

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
796
of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapone Road, Colombo 05" to reach before 13th of June, 2011. Name of the
post applied for should be clearly mentioned on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
01.02 Applications will not be entertained after the closing date. Applicants are hereby advised to forward their applications
in time to avoid the possibility of postal delay.
01.03 Applications will be rejected, if any incorrect information being detected before the recruitment. If any incorrect
information detected after the recruitment, will be duly vacated from the post.
Note.– Applications will not be acknowledged. Application will be rejected, if the applicant do not have the required
qualification or the application form is improperly filled.
02. Educational Qualifications. – Passes in three subjects in the G. C. E. (Advance Level) science stream including Physics/
Chemistry and pass the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings with credit passes in language or literature,
Mathematics, Science and one any other subject.
03. Vocational Qualifications.– Applicant should possess one of the following qualifications related to the job applied for –
(1) National Technology Diploma awarded by the Moratuwa University or Amparai Hardy Institute ; or
(2) National Engineering Diploma awarded by the National Apprentice Industrial Authority ; or
(3) National Highest Engineering Diploma awarded by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education ; or
(4) Technical Diploma awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka ; or
(5) Should be successfully completed the Part I of the Mechanical Engineering Examination held by the Sri Lanka
Engineering Institution ; or
(6) Information derived from Ministry of Higher Education and from the Institutions issuing the above certificates and
any other technological qualifications equallent to the above or any other technological qualifications which should be
recognized by the Sri Lanka Technological Service board.
04. Other qualifications. – Should be physically and psychologically fit and possesses good moral character.
05. Salary Scale.– Salary scale is to be fixed according to the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) pertaining to the
respective post :–
Technical Assistant - MN-3-2006A  Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 - Rs. 27,885.
Assistant Photographer - MT-3-2006A  Rs. 14,910 - 10 x 180 - 11 x 1,240 - 6 x 320 - 14 x 360 - Rs. 24,510.
06. Age Limit. – Should not be less than 18 and not more than 40 at the date of closing of the application. (Age limit not
applicable for the staff in the government/local government service).
07. Procedure of Recruitment.– In addition to the qualification, the applicant should appear for the written test and the highest
scorer of marks will be called for the interview and selected. Marks will not be assigned but the qualifications will be checke d at the
interview. Minimum 40% marks should be obtained in each question paper to qualify. Knowledge pertaining to the related subject will be
tested in the written test as appended below :–
Question Subject Duration Field to be explained
Paper No. time
01 Knowledge affiliated to the subject 01 hour Multiple Choice Questions pertaining to both posts should
(Technical Assistant/Assistant be answered by selecting the questions applicable to each
Photographer) post
02 General Knowledge and I. Q. 01 hour Multiple Choice Questions.
Candidate's knowledge in present Social, Economic, Political
situation and Historical knowledge, capability of listening
and understanding, knowledge in the particular field,
independent decision making, analysis of statistical and
analogical problems, language phrases, charts, pictures,
testing using graphical methods etc.
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy.– All the officers recruited in the medium of the official language after 01.07.2007,
should get the proficiency in the other official language within 05 years of joining the service, vide (Public Administration C ircular
No. 07/2007 of 28.04.2007) of the Ministry of Public Administration and Internal Affairs.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
797
09. Conditions for the Recruitment to the Service :
09.1 This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute to the Widow and Orphan/Widower and Orphan Pension
Fund.
09.2 Recruited applicants should adhere to the Administrative Regulations and Financial Regulations, also to the rules and
regulations introduced by the Director General of Government Information.
09.3 Should adhere to the guidelines mentioned from part 10 to part 12 of section II of the Public Regulations.
09.4 This appointment is subject to probationary period of three years.
10. Applicants in the Government and Local Government Service should forward their application forms through the Head of
the respective department.
Prof. A
RIY ARA TNE ATHUGALA,
Director General of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
Colombo 05,
28th April, 2011.
For official use
Application Form
APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANT/PHOTOGRAPHER IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
Post applied for
Medium of appearing the examination : Sinhala 1, T amil 2,  English 3
01. (1) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(2) Name identified with the initials :–––––––––––.
(3) Name with initials (In English) :–––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(1) Official Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(2) Private Address :–––––––––––.
(3) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or telephone number should be intimated immediately)
03. Date of birth and place :–––––––––––.
04. Age at the closing date of application :
Years :–––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
05. Number of National Identity Card :–––––––––––.
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––.
07. (1) Sex - Male/Female :–––––––––––.
(2) Whether Married/Unmarried/Widow :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
Examination/Diploma Year Subjects offered Results Name of the Institution/University
09. V ocational Qualifications :
Examination/Diploma Year Subjects offered Results Name of the Institution/University
10. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
798
11. Race (Applicable number should be noted in the cage) :
Sinhala 1 Indian origin 4
Sri Lankan Tamil 2 Other 5
Sri Lanka Muslim 3
I hereby declare that the particulars given by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that the
applications will be rejected, if any incorrect information being detected before the recruitment and if any incorrect information detected
after the recruitment, I will be vacated from the post without any compensation.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(This portion is applicable only for the departmental staff and trainees)
A
TTEST ATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT/INSTITUTION
I hereby certify that the work and conduct of Mr./Mrs./Ms. .................................. who is working/under training in the
Ministry/Department/Institution as ............................ and applied for the Post of Technical Assistant/Assistant Photo grapher in the
Department of Government Information. He will be released/not released from the post, once he is selected for the post applied for.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Official Seal :–––––––––––.
05–345
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  ENVIRONMENT
Forest Department
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
EXTENSION OFFICER – 2011
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
who have the required qualifications for the Post of Forest Extension
Officer in the Forest Department.
02. Salary Scale :
(i) MN-1-2006 According to Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(IV) - Rs. 13,120-145x11x 170- 10x240 -
10x320- Rs. 22,040.
03. Term of Employment and Conditions and Service :
(i) This appointment is permanent and pentionable
contributions should be made to the Widow's and
Orphan's Pension Fund.
(ii) This appointment will be on probation for a period of
three years.
(iii) Selected candidates should maintain and co-ordinate,
various Regional Divisional and Rural Level Development
programs. Conducted by the Forest Department -
successfully and efficienly with community participation.
(iv) Selected candidates should prepare to serve any station
or area some of which are located the remote areas in the
island.
(v) General conditions relating to the Public Service
appointments indicated at the beginning of the Para (iia)
of Part I of the gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka will apply.
(vi) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Medium.
04. Age Limit. – Not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age on the date of closing of applications. The upper age
limit is not applicable to those who are already in Public Service
and Provincial Government Service.
05. Educations and other qualifications.– All applicants should
prove satisfactorily the following requirements :
(i) Should have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination
in not more than two sittings in six (06) subjects with
credit passes for language or Literature, Mathematics
and Scicence.
(ii) Should have a good moral character.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
799
06. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Selection will be made after an interview which will be
held to those candidates who have scored highest marks
at the written examination and those who qualified the
items in Para 05 (No marks will be given at the interview).
(ii) The selected candidates should complete written and
practical tests of the three months training program
conducted by the Sri Lanka Forest College Nuwara Eliya,
with in three year after selection.
(iii) The selected candidates should complete three
Identification Test within a year and forest low
examination test as Second Efficiency Bar Examination
within seven years after selection.
07. Written Examination.– Written examination will consist of
two question papers :
(i) Intelligence Test (Aptitude) one (01) hour - 100 marks.
The paper which is designed to assess the numerical ability
logical ability analytical competence and decision making
ability of the applicants will consist of multiple choice
questions and short answer question.
(ii) General knowledge - Two (02) hours - 100 marks. The
paper will consists forest protection, communication and
forest extention to test the knowledge of the applicants.
(iii) The applicants should appear for these two papers in the
same language.
08. Mode of applications and other information :
(i) The specimen form given at the end of the notification
should be prepared by applicant using a paper of
21 x 29cm (A4 size) should be sent by registered post
addressed to the commissioner general of examination,
organizational and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examination, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on
or before 30.06.2011 (Applications should not be sent to
any individual address or any other address) "Recruitment
to the post of Forest Extension Officer 2011" should be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(ii) The incomplete or late application will be rejected without
any notice.
(iii) Loss of applications during the post will not be
considered.
(iv) Signature of the applicants should be attested by one of
the following officials Principal of a Government School
or justice of peace or commissioned officer in the Army,
Navy, Air force or Police Service or permanent staff officer
of national or Provincial Government service or the Grama
Niladhari officer of the Grama Niladhari Division where
the applicant resides.
(v) The application not in confoirmity to the conditions
mentioned in this notification will be rejected.
(vi) Applicants who are already in national or Provincial
Government Service should forward their applications
throught the respective head of their institution and an
endorsement to necessary to indicate that the head of the
institution agrees to release the applicant if selected for
the post.
(vii) The receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
09. Examination Fees :
(i) Examination Fee is Rs. 300. This amount should be paid
at the nearest Divisional Secretariat and shall be credited
in favour or the "General Deposit" of "Conservator
General of Forests" The receipt should be pasted to the
application where indicated (it is advisable for the
applicant to keep a photocopy of the receipt).
(ii) Examination Fee is not to refundable and would not be
transferable as a fee for any other examination.
10. Candidate should produce all or any one of the following
dcoument any time when called :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Educational Certificate ;
(iii) Grama Niladhari Certificate obtained recently should
certified by Divisional Secretary ;
(iv) Two character certificates ;
(v) Any other relevant certificate.
Please Note .– Documents or copies of the documents
should not to attached to the application.
11. (i) The examination will be held only is following cities :
1. Colombo 13. Puththalama
2. Gampaha 14. Badulla
3. Kalutara 15. Monaragala
4. Kandy 16. Anuradhapura
5. Matale 17. Polonnaruwa
6. Nuwara Eliya 18. Ampara
7. Matara 19. Trincomalee
8. Galle 20. Madakalapuwa
9. Hambantota 21. V avuniya
10. Ratnapura 22. Killinochchi
11. Kegalle 23. Mulative
12. Kurunegala 24. Jaffna
(i) If not adequate number of applications are received for
any of the above centers, the applicants will be referred
to the nearest city.
(ii) An admissions card indicating the date time and venue
of the examination will be posted 07 days before the

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
800
examination traveling expenses or any others expenses
will not be paid for this purpose to the applicants. It
should be noted that, issuing of an admission card should
not be cnsidered as a qualification for the recruitment of
the post.
12. Identity of the Candidate.– The applicant should prove his/
her identify to the satisfaction of the examiners. Anyone of the
following documents will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) A National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
of the Department of registration of persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
(iii) A valid driving license.
13. Penalty for providing false information .– If the applicant
found to be not qualified his/her application for the examination
will be cancelled anytime. Any information furnished by an applicant
to his/her knowledge is found to be incorrect or if he/she has
purposely changed an important fact he/she will be liable for dismissal
from the Government Service after his/her selection.
14. Particualrs not mentioned in this notification will be attended
according to the decision of Conservator General of Forests.
Conservator General of Forests.
Forest Department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
28th April, 2011.
A
PPLICATION FOR THE POST OF FOREST EXTENSION OFFICER
(Tamil Medium) in the Forest Department – 2011
City No. :
City :–––––––––––.
(Please see Para 11 of the notification)
01. (i) Name or the applicant with initials (in English) :––––––.
(ii) Full name (in English) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (in English) :–––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Male – 0  Female – 1
(Please write the relevant Number in the box)
04. Medium through which the applicant intended to be appeared
for the examination :
Sinhala – S             Tamil – T              English – E
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
05. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By decent – 1                    By registration –  2
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
06. Date of birth :
Age as on 31.12.2010
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :
08. Educational qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt
Year :––––––––. Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––– Index No. :–––––––––
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
09. Additional Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
10. Professional/Other qualification :–––––––––––.
11. (i) The Divisional Secretariat to which the examination fee
was paid :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number of the cash receipt and date :–––––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt so as not to be detachable.
12. (i) Have you ever been convicted for any offence by a Court
of Law ? Yes/No :–––––––––––.
(ii) If yes give details :–––––––––––.
13. If you are already employed, give details :–––––––––––.
Institute :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Date of 1st Appointment :–––––––––. Salary :–––––––––.
14. Names and address of two non related refers (with Telephone
No.) :
(i) :–––––––––––.
(ii) :–––––––––––.
15. Declaration by the applicant :
I hereby declare that the information furnished in this application
are true and accurate. I am aware that if any information herein is
found to be false or inaccurate before any selection. I will be liable
for disqualification and dismissal without compensation, if found
to be subsequent to the appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'05'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.05.2011
801
16. Attestment of the appilcant's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Ms. ....................... is known to me
personally and he/she placed his/her signature in this application in
my presence on ................. 2011.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name of the attestor :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
17. This part should be completed by the Head of the Institution if
the applicant is an employee of the National or Provincial
Government service :
I hereby certify that applicant Mr./Ms............... who hold the
post of .............. is a permanent/temporary employee of this
Ministry/Department and particulars furnished by him/her are true
and correct. If he/she is selected for this post, he/she could be
released/could not be released from the present post.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department or
Authorized Officer.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation  :–––––––––. (frank should be pleaced)
Date  :–––––––––.
(please delete the unnecessary words)
Please Note.– No other document other than receipt of the exam
fees should be attached to the application.
05–166
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.