

<!-- page 1 -->

01
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
KODHAGODA GUNARATHANA NAHIMI 
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
————————
Presented by Hon. Varuna Liyanage, M.P. for 
 Ratnapura District  on 23rd of July, 2025
(Published in the Gazette on June 19, 2025)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
 ————————
printed at the department of government printing, sri lanka
to be purchased at the government publications bureau, colombo 5
Price : Rs. 43.50 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 29]

<!-- page 2 -->

1
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
Short title
Incorporation
of the
Kodhagoda
Gunarathana
Nahimi
Foundation
An Act to incorporate the Kodhagoda Gunarathana 
Nahimi Foundation
WHEREAS an foundation called and known as the 
“Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation” has 
heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of 
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters 
connected with the said foundation according to the rules 
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore 
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects 
and matters for which it was established, and has applied 
to be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said 
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Kodhagoda Gunarathana 
Nahimi Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2025.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this 
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the 
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be 
admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, 
shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession, under 
the name and style of the “Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi 
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) 
and by that name may sue and be sued, in all Courts with full 
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to 
alter the same at its pleasure.
(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary 
social service organization within the meaning, and for 
the purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations 
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the 
5
10
15
20
25
30
Preamble

<!-- page 3 -->

Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
2
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the 
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. The body corporate shall operates exclusively as a not 
for profit Organization and it is solely for the benefit of the 
society and its members.
4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is 
constituted are hereby declared to be:-
(a) to develop quality relationship between members 
and beneficiaries of the Kodhagoda Gunaratana 
Nahimi Foundation;
(b) to develop human resources and facilite career 
development;
(c)  to create a religious and cultural revival of the 
members and beneficiaries of the Foundation;
(d)  to establish appropriate liaison between 
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation and 
national and international organizations, thereby 
promoting moral and physical development of 
Kodagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation;
(e) to bring the religious, moral, educational and 
physical development to the various ethnicities of 
Sri Lanka;
(f)  to develop quality relationship between members 
of the Foundation and it’s beneficiaries;
(g)  to facilitate the economic and professional 
development of the low income community;
(h) to work for the advancement of various local 
cultures; and
The General 
objects of the 
body corporate
5
10
15
20
25
Body 
corporate 
operates as a 
not-for-profit 
Organization

<!-- page 4 -->

3
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
(i)  to fulfill the physical needs of the local people by 
building reliable relationships internationally.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified 
in subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that 
such implementation shall be carried out without any 
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, 
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
5. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out 
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between 
the work of the Corporation and any work being carried 
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the 
Government or any Provincial Council.
6. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the body 
corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Management 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board” consisting of such 
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules 
made under section 8.
(2) (a) The Board of Management of the foundation that 
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of 
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of the 
body corporate until the first Board is appointed or elected 
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 8.
(b) The first Board of the body corporate shall be appointed 
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of 
this Act.
(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including the 
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a 
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or 
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election 
after lapse of the said period of three years.
Body corporate
to ensure no 
conflict with  
work of
Ministry or
Department of
the Central
Government  
or Province
Management 
of the Affairs 
of the body
corporate
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
4
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death, 
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office 
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the 
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b) 
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of 
office of the member whom he succeeds.
7. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other 
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, 
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary 
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including 
the power-
(a) to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate and 
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may 
be required for the purpose of the body corporate 
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may be 
deemed expedient with a view to promoting the 
objects of the body corporate;
(b)  to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations, 
in cash or kind with or without security:
Provided that, the Committee shall obtain   
the prior written approval of the Department of 
External Resources of the Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Finance, in respect of all 
foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the 
body corporate;
(c)  to make, draw, accept, ept, discount, endorse, 
negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, 
cheques, promissory notes and other negotiable 
instruments and to open, operate and close 
accounts in any banks;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for 
the purposes of the body corporate in such manner 
as the Committee may determine;
Powers of the 
body corporate
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and 
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal 
property with a view to promoting the objects of 
the body corporate;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the 
services of officers and servants of the body 
corporate and exercise disciplinary control over 
them and to pay theme such salaries, allowances 
and gratuities as may be determined by the body 
corporate;
(g)  to do all other things as are necessary or expedient 
for the proper and effective carrying out the 
objects of the body corporate.
8. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time 
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less 
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make 
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any 
other written law, for all or any of the following matter:-
(a) the classification of membership, admission, 
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members 
and fees payable by members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or 
vacation of or removal from office of office 
bearers and the powers, duties and functions of 
the office bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers, 
functions and duties of the various officers, agents 
and servants of the body corporate;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning 
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any 
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such 
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business 
thereat;
Rules of the 
Body 
corporate.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
6
(e) the qualification and disqualification to be a 
members of the Board and the body corporate;
(f)  the administration and management of the 
property of the body corporate; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the body 
corporate and the accomplishment of its’ objects 
and dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be 
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting 
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time be 
subject to rules of the body corporate.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published 
in the Government Gazette.
9. The Board shall maintain a register of members in 
which name, address and other essential details of the 
members be inscribed.
10. (1) The Body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, 
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an account of 
the Body corporate shall be deposited in one or more Banks 
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money 
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
Body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge 
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the Body corporate shall be 
the calendar year.
Register of 
members
Fund of
the body
corporate.
Accounts and 
the Auditing
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 8 -->

7
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
(2) The Body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be 
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all 
other transactions of the Body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the Body corporate shall be audited 
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms 
of Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor” 
means-
(a)  an individual who being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any 
other Institute established by law, possesses a 
certified to practice as Accountant issued by the 
Council of such Institute; or
(b) a   firm of  Accountants  each   of     the  resident 
partners, of which being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any 
other Institute established by law possesses a 
certificate to practice as Accountant issued by the 
Council of such Institute.
12. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities 
of the Body corporate for each financial year and submit 
such report together with the audited statement of accounts 
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the 
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary 
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary 
Social Services Organization (registration and Supervision) 
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of 
the year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and 
local moneys received by the Body corporate during the 
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in 
subsection (1).
Annual Report
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
8
13. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on 
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, 
shall be paid by the Body corporate hereby constituted, and 
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable 
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Body 
corporate for the purpose of this Act.
14. Subject to the provision of this Act, the Body corporate 
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property 
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by 
virtue of any purchase grant, gift, testamentary disposition 
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the Body 
corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules 
of the Body corporate made under section 7, with power to 
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the 
same.
15. The moneys and property of the Body corporate 
however derived shall be applied solely towards the  
promotion of the objects of the Body corporate and no  
portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or  
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members 
of the Body corporate.
16. (1) The seal of the Body corporate shall not be  
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence 
of two members of the Board who shall sign their names to 
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing 
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a 
witness.
(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody 
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such 
Board.
17. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate there 
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, 
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be 
distributed among the members of the Body corporate, but 
shall be given or transferred to any other foundation having 
Application
of money and 
property.
Seal of
the Body 
corporate.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Body corporate 
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by 
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 10 -->

9
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
objects similar to those of the Body corporate, and which is 
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income 
or property among its members.
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate 
institution shall be determined by the members of the body 
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general 
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect 
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Saving of the 
Rights of the 
Republic and 
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10

<!-- page 11 -->

Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation 
(Incorporation)
10
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING