

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 111
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"107 – 2019 ckjdß ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'01'18
No. 2,107 –  FRiday ,  jaNuaRy 18, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th February, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th january, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
109-B 81486- 5,403 (01/2019)
N.B. –  (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,106 of 11.01.2019 was not published.
 (ii) the list of jurors in Badulla district jurisdiction areas in year 2019 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
tamil, English Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
110
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
111
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION & 
DISASTER mANAGEmENT 
Efficiency  Bar  Examination for Officers  in  
Class  I of The Government  Translators'
Service - 2014 (2018)
 
aN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officiers in Class I of 
the translator's Service as provided for in paragraph 08 of 
the translator's Service Minute published in the Government 
Gazette No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, shall be held in 
colombo by the commissioner General of  Examinations 
in the month of april 2019 and candidates may appear for 
the examination either  in Sinhala, tamil or English media. 
Only the officers, who belong to combined Service of 
Public Service, shall apply for the relevant Efficency Bar 
examination as per this notification.
Note : the provisions relevant to the applicants of the 
translators' Service of the Provincial Public Service 
and the provisions for the applicants of other relevant 
institutions shall be issued concurrently to this 
Gazette Notification by the relevant provincial Public 
Service commissions and the relevant institutions 
respectively,
a code number should be indicated in mentioning 
relevant service or institution in the heading of the 
application for the purpose of identifying separately 
the officers who apply for this examination for the 
public service of each Provincial council and other 
institutions. accordingly, the code number of the 
officers belonging to the Combined service is 10. the 
said  number should be indicated  on the top right 
hand corner of the application where it is mentioned 
as "the service to which you belong".
02. the specimen form of application for this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
applications prepared correctly and legibly should be sent 
through the respective Head of department by registered 
post to reach the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations (institutional & Foreign Examinations) 
Branch, department of Examinations Sri Lanka, P.o. Box 
1503, colombo on or before 18th of February 2019. the 
name of the examination should be indicated on the top left 
hand corner of the envelope in which the application is sent 
to the commissioner General of Examinations, applications 
received after the closing date shall be rejected.
03.  (i)  the application should be prepared on a paper 
of "a4" size using both sides of the paper in 
such a manner that items No. 1.0 to 5.2 appear 
on the first page and the remaining numbers 
in the second page. although application form 
could be typewritten, it should be filled by the 
candidate's own handwriting. applications that 
are not complete in every aspect and that do 
not comply with the specimen shall be rejected 
without any notice. it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form at the candidate's possession.
 (ii)  For the purposes of Official Languages Policy 
all the applicants should prepare and fill their 
application forms in the official language. 
the name of the examination appearing in 
the heading of the application form should be 
indicated in English in both Sinhala and tamil 
medium applications.
04. Syllabus and scheme of Examination :
1st Subject : Paper 01
  t ranslation of 
 (i)  a passage of general interest ; and 
 (ii)  Extracts from
 (a) an Official document or report ; and
 (b) a newspaper article or report
  in one of the following ways selected, in accordance 
with the candidate's medium of translation.
 (i)  From Sinhala to tamil
 (ii)  From Sinhala to English
 (iii)  From tamil to English
  duration :- 03 Hours
  Marks :- 100
2nd Subject : Paper 02
translation of 
 (i)  a passage of general interest ; and 
 (ii)  Extracts from
(a) an Official document or report ; and
(b) a newspaper article or report
  in one of the following ways selected, in accordance 
with the candidate's medium of translation.
(i) From tamil to Sinhala 
(ii) From English to Sinhala 
(iii) From English to tamil
duration :- 03 Hours
Marks :- 100

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
112
* candidates should obtain forty percent (40%) or 
above of the total marks for each paper to pass the 
examination.
05. candidate's handwriting shall be taken into 
consideration.
06. examination Fees.– Examination fees shall be paid in 
respect of candidates for this examination on the following 
basis :
(a)  No fees shall be levied in respect of candidates 
appearing for the first time.
(b) Fees for appearing on a subsquent occasion shall 
be Rs. 500/- for the full examination and Rs. 200/ 
for a single subject.
(c)  The examination fee can be paid at any post Office/ 
sub Post Office in the Island to be credited to the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt obtained 
in favor of the candidate himself  / herself should 
be affixed to the relevant cage of the application 
form. it is advisable to keep  a photocopy of the 
cash receipt with the candidate.
(d) the examination fees shall not be refunded or 
transferred in respect of any other examination 
under any circumstances..
07. Admission to the examination :
(b)  (i)  the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all applicants 
whose applications have been received. 
candidates must get their signatures in the 
admission cards attested in advance and 
produce  the admission cards to the supervisor 
of the examination center, when presenting 
themselves for the examination. candidates 
without such admission cards shall not be 
permitted either to enter the examination hall 
or sit for the examination. A notification shall 
be  published in newspapers and the official  
website by the  department of Examinations 
as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to the candidates. if the admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
notification, steps shall be taken to notify the 
department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. It would be 
advisable to send a  certified copy of the 
application form and the receipt of payment 
of examination fee kept at your possession, 
receipt of registering the letter by which the 
application has been sent and your letter of 
request in which your fax number in indicated 
for sending a copy of the admission card to the 
department of Examinations through fax.
 (ii)  Each candidate shall be issued a time table 
along with the admission card.
 (iii)  candidates are bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by the commissioner  
General of Examinations for conducting 
the examination. they shall be liable to any 
purnishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for the breach of 
these rules.
 (iv)  Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at 
the begining of this Gazette.
Note: the issuance of an admission card to sit for the 
examination should not be considered as an acceptance 
of requisite qualifications of a candidate to sit for the 
examination.
08. Heads of department shall grant duty leave for 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations, to present 
themselves at the examination. travelling expenses are not 
payable.
09. Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
For this purpose any of the following documents shall be 
accepted.
 (a) the National identity card
 (b) a valid passport
 (c) a valid driving license
the candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit 
any one of the above mentioned documents in addition to his 
admission card is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of 
the commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Release of the results.– commissioner General of 
Examinations will release the results of the examination 
to the director  General of combined Services and the 
results will be published in the website of Ministry of Public 
administration and disaster Management.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
113
11. the decision of the Director General of Combined Services shall be final in respect of any matter which has not 
been provided for in this notification.
12. "In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail".
 K. V . P. M. j. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
Ministry of Public administration & disaster Management
independence Square,
colombo 07,
03rd of january 2019.
(for office use only)  
SPEciMEN FoRM oF aPPLicatioN
efficiency Bar examination for officers' in class i of the government translators service - 2014 (2018)
(N.B.- This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the candidates own handwriting.)
 the service to which you belong
 (See the first paragraph before filling this)
1.0  Medium of translations of candidate as per para 04 of the Gazette notification
 Paper 01 :  From Sinhala into tamil  - 1
    From Sinhala into English  - 2
    From tamil into English  - 3
       (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 Paper 02 :  From tamil into Sinhala  - 4
    From English into Sinhala  - 5
    From English into tamil - 6
       (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   * candidates may appear for either paper 01, paper 02 or both the papers.
2.0  PERSoNaL  iNFoRMatioN :
  2.1  Name  in Full (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (eg. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa   GuNaWaRdHaNa)
  2.2  Name With initials at the end (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
   (eg.: GuNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
  2.3  Name in Full (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––––.
3.0  Service Station and address :
  3.1  Name and Address of the Office /Department / Institution (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  3.2  Name and Address of the Office /Department / Institution (in Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
  3.3  address  to which the admission card should be sent (in block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
4.0    4.1  National identity card No. :
  4.2  date of Birth:   date Month year

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
114
5.0  telephone numbers :
  5.1  Mobile :
  5.2  Fixed   :
6.0  Gender:  Female  - 1 
    Male  - 0
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 
7.0  Present Post :
  7.1  Post :––––––––––––––.
  7.2  Number of the  letter of appointment :––––––––––––––.
8.0   8.1  Are you appearing for this examination for the first time :––––––––––––––.
  8.2  if not, the examination fees paid :––––––––––––––.
  8.3  Post Office / Sub Post Office :––––––––––––––.
  8.4  Receipt Number :––––––––––––––.
  8.5  date :––––––––––––––.
The receipt should be affixed so as not to be detached
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9.0 Certificate of  Candidate
 i, declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that i am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated at the begining of  the application and that i have not been subjected to any form  of disciplinary Punishment . i agree 
to abide by the rules and regulations imposed for this examination. Further , i shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for conducting this examination and issurance of the results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :––––––––––––––.
10.0 Certificate of the Head of Department :
i, hereby certify that,
 (i)  this candidate is employed in this department as a translator in class i of the translators' Service, which 
belongs to the combined Service;
 (ii)  the particulars furnished above are correct;
 (iii)  His / her work and conduct have been satisfactory throughout : and he / she has not been subjected to any 
form of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the 5 years preceding ; and
 (iv)  He / she is eligible to sit for this examination.
 (v)  He/ she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed (delete if inapplicable) 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
designation :––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––. 
01- 442 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
115
GENERAL  SIR  jOhN  kOTELAWALA  
DEfENCE  uNIvERSITy  
uNDERGRADuATE  CADETShIPS  
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri 
Lankans for undergraduate cadetships at General Sir john 
Kotelawala defence university Ratmalana and its Southern 
campus Suriyawewa from 18.01.2019 to 01.02.2019. 
2. General Sir john Kotelawala defence university has 
been empowered to award Degrees to those Officer Cadets 
who, after being enlisted to the commissioned officer ranks 
in the Regular Forces of the tri-Services will successfully 
complete the academic & military components of studies 
pertaining to the degree programmes by the General Sir 
john Kotelawala defence academy act, No. 68 of 1981 and 
subsequent amendments thereto.
3. The degree programmes applicable to the Officer 
cadets will be conducted at, 
Kdu - 
ratmalana
 (i) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery 
(MBBS)  (5 years)
 (ii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Engineering      
(4 1/2 years)
 (iii) Bachelor of Laws (LLB)  (4 1/2 years)
 (iv) Bachelor of Science Honours in computer 
Science (4 1/2 years)
 (v) Bachelor of Science Honours in Software 
Engineering (4 1/2 years)
 (vi) Bachelor of Science Honours in computer 
Engineering (4 1/2 years)
 (vii) Bachelor of Science in Logistics Management 
(3 1/2 years)
 (viii) Bachelor of Science in Management & 
technical Sciences (3 1/2 years)
 (ix) Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences (3 1/2 
years)
 (x) Bachelor of Science in Strategic Studies and 
international Relations (3 1/2 years)
southern campus - suriyawewa
 (xi)  Bachelor of architecture (5 1/2 years)
 (xii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Quantity 
Surveying (4 1/2 years)
 (xiii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Surveying 
Sciences (4 1/2 years)
 (xiv) Bachelor of Science Honours in information 
technology (4 1/2 years)
 (xv) Bachelor of Science Honours in information 
Systems (4 1/2 years)
3.1. The allocation of Officer Cadets for the three 
services will be based on the availability of 
vacancies in each service and the aggregate marks 
obtained at the three interviews, conducted for 
selection. Officer Cadets will be commissioned in 
the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka army, Navy 
or air Force, after successful completion of the 
degree programmes. 
 3.2 on successful completion of the academic and 
military training components of the respective 
degree programmes, the Officer Cadets will be 
awarded one of the following degrees :
 (i) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of 
Surgery (MBBS)
 (ii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Engineering
 (iii) Bachelor of Laws (LLB)
 (iv) Bachelor of Science Honours in computer 
Science
 (v) Bachelor of Science Honours in Software 
Engineering
 (vi) Bachelor of Science Honours in computer 
Engineering
 (vii) Bachelor of Science in Logistics Management
 (viii) Bachelor of Science in Management & 
technical Sciences
 (ix) Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences
 (x) Bachelor of Science in Strategic Studies and 
international Relations 
 (xi) Bachelor of architecture
 (xii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Quantity 
Surveying
 (xiii) Bachelor of Science Honours in Surveying 
Sciences
 (xiv) Bachelor of Science Honours in information 
technology
 (xv) Bachelor of Science Honours in information 
Systems
 3.3 all degree programmes are conducted only in the 
medium of English. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
116
 3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the following Bachelor’s degree Programmes in accordance 
with their qualifications.
 (a) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) – Five years (Male and Female):
  For those who have followed bio-Science Stream (Biology, chemistry and Physics) at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in 2018, obtained a minimum of three Simple passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university 
admission. 
 (b) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Engineering in Aeronautical /bio-medical/Civil/Electrical & 
Electronic/Electronic and Telecommunication/marine/mechanical/mechatronic - four and a half years 
(male and female) :
  For those who have followed maths Stream (chemistry, Physics and combined Mathematics) at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained at least minimum two credit passes (c) and one simple pass (S) 
in each of the three subjects and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (c) Bachelor of Laws (LLB) - Four and a half years (Male) :
  For those who have obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for any three of the following subjects at the 
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017 and are eligible to apply for university admission : 
  accounting Elements of Political Science agricultural Science
  Geography Biology Higher Mathematics
  Business Statistics History Business Studies
  Logic and Scientific Method Chemistry Economics
  Physics Mathematics/combined Mathematics
  communication and Media Studies information and communication technology
  or
  those who have obtained minimum Simple Passes (S) at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination for one or two subjects 
from the above list and for the other two or one subject/s from the following list, and are eligible to apply for 
university admission.  
  Buddhism/Buddhist civilization Greek tamil
  christianity/christian civilization Hinduism/Hindu civilization Sanskrit
  Greek and Roman civilization islam/islamic civilization French
  japanese chinese Sinhala
  English (Subject No. 73) Pali arabic
  German drama and theater agro technology
   
 (d) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Computer Science - four and a half years (male and female)
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained a 
minimum of Simple Passes (S), for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects and 
are eligible to apply for university admission 
  chemistry
  Higher Mathematics 
  information and communication technology
 (e) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Software Engineering - four and a half years (male)
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained a 
minimum of Simple Passes (S), for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects and 
are eligible to apply for university admission 
  chemistry
  Higher Mathematics 
  information and communication technology

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
117
 (f) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in computer Engineering - four and a half years (male)
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained a 
minimum of Simple Passes (S), for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects and 
are eligible to apply for university admission 
  chemistry
  Higher Mathematics 
  information and communication technology
 (g) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Logistics Management – Three and a half years (Male & Female) :
  For those who have followed bio, maths or Commerce Streams at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 
2017, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (h) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Management & Technical Sciences - Three and a half years (Male and Female) :
  For those who have followed bio or maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained 
a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (i) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Social Sciences – Three and a half years (Male and Female) :
  For those who have followed any stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained a 
minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (j) Bachelor of Science in Strategic Studies and International Relations - Three and a half  years (Male) :
  For those who have followed any stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained a 
minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (k) bachelor of Architecture (b Arch) - five and a half years (male)
  For those who have followed three (3) of the following subjects at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 
2017, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) and are eligible to apply for university admission :
 (i) At least one of the following subjects,
  Biology 
  Higher Mathematics
  chemistry  
  Physics
  combined Mathematics
  art 
  Geography
and
 (ii) the remaining subject/subjects from the following list : 
  Accounting Logic and Scientific Methods
  Hindu civilization Mathematics
  Business Statistics Sanskrit
  islamic civilization German
  Greek and Roman civilization arabic
  Elements of Political Science History
  English (Subject No. 73) Business Studies
  Sinhala japanese

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
118
  christian civilization Economics
  communication and Media Studies Pali
  Hindi French
  Buddhist civilization tamil
  Home Economics information and communication technology
  agricultural Science chinese
and
 (iii) at least a credit Pass (c) in mathematics at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination or a Simple Pass (S) in 
Mathematics at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination ;
  and
 (iv) a  pass at the spatial cognition test conducted by Kdu.
 (l) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Surveying Sciences - Four and a half years (Male):
  For those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 2017, obtained a 
minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (m) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Quantity Surveying - Four and a half years (Male):
  For those who have followed three (3) of the following subjects at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2018 or 
2017, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
  At least one subject from, 
  combined Mathematics/Higher Mathematics 
  and the other subject/subjects from the following list :
 accounting Economics Business Statistics
 Business Studies Physics chemistry
 information and communication technology
  In addition, candidates should satisfy the following minimum requirements at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination. 
  (a) a credit Pass (c) in Mathematics
  (b) a Simple Pass (S) in Science
 (n) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Information Technology - four and a half years (male) :
  For those who have followed the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in any stream other than the Technology Stream in 
2018 or 2017, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission.
 (o) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Information Systems - four and a half years (male) :
  For those who have followed the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in any stream other than the Technology Stream in 
2018 or 2017, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of common and special subjects pertaining to respective degree 
Programmes, including English, Management, information technology, Law, international Studies and Military 
Studies. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
119
3.6 they are also required to undergo continuous training in Physical development, drill, Weapon training and 
Leadership, during their degree Programmes. 
4. Other eligibility requirements for Officer Cadets.– the candidates should be : 
 (a) a  citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age by 01.02.2019. 
Educational Qualifications : 
 (c) the candidate should be eligible to apply for university admission having obtained a minimum of three Simple 
Passes (S) in the relevant stream of the G. c. E. (a/L) examination, 
  and should have : 
 (i) Passed the common General test ; 
 (ii) obtained a minimum of a credit (c) pass for English language at G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination for 
all degree programmes.
 (iii) Educational qualifications for the Sri Lanka Air Force :
  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination with compulsory credit (c) passes for 
English language, Science and Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass or above for Sinhala/tamil language in one 
sitting (additional and optional subjects are not considered)
 (d) The following minimum physical standards should be satisfied : 
army Navy air Force
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Height MBBS 5' 6" 5' 3" 168cm 160cm 5' 5" 5' 3"
other 
degrees
5' 6" 5' 4" 168cm 160cm 5' 6" 5' 4"
Weight 50Kg - 52Kg 41Kg - -
BMi - - - - <26 and >17 <25 and >17
chest 32" 
(unexpanded)
- 81cm - 32" -
  
 Eye Vision
army Navy air Force
Left Right Left Right Left Right if specs use colour Vision
6/9 6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 6/6 Without cP 2
Without Lenses Without Lenses
Note.– (if a candidate possesses National Level achievements in sports or other relevant activities, the above physical 
standards may be relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of defence and chairman of the Board of Management, 
General Sir john Kotelawala defence university).
 (e) The candidates should conform to the required medical standards.– Successful candidates are required to pass a 
medical test following the submission of a Medical declaration Form in the prescribed format to the satisfaction 
of the Secretary, Ministry of defence and chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir john Kotelawala 
defence university. if a candidate is found to have provided false information in the Medical declaration Form, prior 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
120
to the selection, such candidate shall be disqualified 
and liable to be discharged on the grounds of the 
provision of false information. 
  Medical declaration Form can be downloaded from 
the university Website.
 (f) The candidate should be unmarried. (No Officer 
cadet will be permitted to get married whilst under 
training and until permitted to do so by Service 
Regulations.)
5. Condition of Service .– Selected candidates will be 
enlisted as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala 
defence university, Ratmalana or its Southern campus, 
Suriyawewa. they will be subjected to laws, regulations and 
orders made or given under the General Sir john Kotelawala 
defence academy act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent 
amendments thereto. An Officer Cadet shall serve in the 
armed service in which he is commissioned as an Officer for 
a continuous and uninterrupted period of not less than (12) 
twelve years from the date on which he is graduated in the 
respective degree Programme. 
6. at the time of enlistment selected candidates will have 
to enter into a Bond and an agreement with the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory 
period as aforesaid, after being graduated in the respective 
degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid approximately Rs. 38,000 
per month as pay and allowances. in addition, the following 
facilities will be provided free of charge: 
 (i) Board and lodging ;
 (ii) uniforms ; 
 (iii) Batman facilities ;
 (iv) Sports and recreational facilities ;
 (v) Medical facilities.
8. on being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the 
Sri Lanka army, Navy or air Force, they will be entitled for 
pay and allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance 
with the Service pay codes. 
(a)  the following allowances are payable monthly : 
 (i) Qualification allowance ;
 (ii) Ration allowance ;
 (iii) disturbance allowance when ordered to live in 
(for married officers only) ;
 (iv) uniform up keep allowance. 
(b)  other facilities and allowances : 
 (i) accommodation when ordered to live in ;
 (ii) Limited rent allowance when living in a rented 
house ; 
 (iii) uniform allowance ;
 (iv) Batman allowance ; 
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed 
by the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects 
and conditions of Service :-
 (i) the army/Navy/air Force pay code.
 (ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/
air Force published in the Sri Lanka Government 
Gazette. 
 (iii) current army/Navy/air Force Pensions and Gratuity 
code pubilshed in the Sri Lanka Government 
Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are 
required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by 
the Vice-chancellor, General Sir john Kotelawala defence 
university and /or respective Service commanders. 
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted 
for training in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad. 
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to stay 
in accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down 
by the General Sir john Kotelawala defence university or 
by the respective Service establishments. 
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will 
be required to comply with any rules and regulations already 
made or that may hereafter be made for giving effect to the 
language policy of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka. 
14. Proof of Identity.– candidates will be required 
to produce proof of their National identity. identity cards 
issued by the department of Registration of Persons or the 
Post Master - General valid passport or driving License 
issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted 
for this purpose. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'01'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2019
121
15. Applications.– application forms and the details can 
be downloaded from the university Website www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. duly completed applications should accompany 
a receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (one thousand 
Rupees) to any Branch of the Bank of ceylon in favour 
of “the Vice chancellor, General Sir john Kotelawala 
defence university” to be credited to the current account 
Number “9405831” of the Bank of ceylon, idama Branch, 
Moratuwa. The applications without basic qualifications and  
not duly filled in accordance with the conditions mentioned 
herein will be rejected without notification and in such 
instances. the application fee will not be refunded. a board 
appointed by Vice-chancellor will review all applications 
received and shortlist them according to qualifications of the 
candidates. those who are shortlisted will be called for the 
preliminary interview. 
17. the applications for degree programmes should be 
sent to "The Registrar, General Sir john kotelawala 
Defence university, Ratmalana" under registered cover 
to reach him on or before 01.02.2019. "Application for 
Cadetships" and the stream applied, should be written 
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. applications 
received after the closing date or do not conform to the 
requirements of this notification will be rejected. 
18. Applications from officers in Government Service 
and corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded 
through the Heads of the departments/corporations/
Statutory Bodies and they should accompany a certificate 
issued by the relevant institutional head to the effect that the 
Officer would be released if selected. 
19. Applications should accompany only the certified 
photocopies of the certificate of Registration of Birth                  
and G. c. E. (o/L), G. c. E. (a/L) result sheets with a 
certification for being qualified for University admission      
(yes).
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those 
candidates who have achieved the required standards in 
accordance with the evaluation criteria determined by the 
Selection committee appointed by the Board of Management 
of the General Sir john Kotelawala defence university. 
Candidates who are selected from the first interview will 
be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the 
Board of Management of the General Sir john Kotelawala 
Defence University. The final selection will be made by 
the Final Selection committee appointed by the Board of 
Management of the General Sir john Kotelawala defence 
university. 
21. candidates who are selected for interviews and tests 
will be informed in writing or via Kdu website of the 
venues, times and the dates of such interviews. travelling or 
other expenses for this purpose will not be paid to applicants. 
22. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving him/her a testimonial.  any form of 
canvassing would be considered as a disqualification. 
23. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
No correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with 
regard to rejected applications. 
24. if a disparity exists between the Sinhala language and 
tamil language in the Gazette notification, you are hereby 
requested to follow the instructions as per the Gazette 
notification in Sinhala language. 
 
hemasiri fernando, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of defence and
 chairman of the Board of Management 
 General Sir john Kotelawala 
 defence university. 
01–765
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.