

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2070
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 2062
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"082 – 2018 cQ,s ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2018'07'26
No. 2,082  –  THURSDAY ,  JULY 26, 2018
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th August, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd August, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2059 - B 81433 - 5,403 (07/2018)
N. B.–    The list of Jurors in Kurunegala District Jurisdiction Areas in year 2018 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2060
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2061
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2062
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who 
are physically sound and of excellent moral character for the 
posts mentioned below on the staff of the Secretary-General 
of Parliament.
1. Parliamentary Interpreter (English/Tamil/English) 
2. Parliamentary Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil/Sinhala) 
Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover along 
with the copies of certi ﬁ cates of Educational/Professional, 
and Service Experience,  to reach the “Secretary-General of 
Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura 
Kotte" on or before August 09, 2018 indicating the post 
applied for, on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
(This information is found on the website: www.parliament.
lk)
1. Salary Scale. – According to the Schedule I of the 
Management Services Circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
the monthly salary scale for this post is Rs. 47, 340 – 3 x 
755/ 13 x 1,030 – Rs. 62,995. The selected candidates will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step of Rs. 37,558/= 
according to the Schedule II of the Circular mentioned 
above from the date of appointment. (The minimum initial 
monthly remuneration on this salary scale,  together with all 
the allowances will be approximately Rs.75,000 /=). 
2. Age Limit.– Not less than 22 years and not more than 
45 years of age as at the closing date for applications.(The 
upper age limit shall not apply to those who are already in 
Public/ Provincial Public Service)
3. Educational Quali ﬁ cations.– Candidates who 
possess any of the educational quali ﬁ cation and experience 
mentioned under (a), (b) and (c) below can apply for the 
above post.
 ( a) Candidates applying for the post of Parliamentary 
Interpreter (English/ Tamil/ English) should 
possess a Degree acquired from a recognized 
University in Tamil or English as a subject and 
a credit pass at G.C.E O/L examination for the 
language which has not been offered for the 
degree and candidates applying for the post 
of Parliamentary Interpreter (Sinhala/ Tamil/ 
Sinhala) should possess a Degree acquired from 
Posts – Vacant
a recognized University in Sinhala or Tamil 
as a subject and a credit pass at G.C.E O/L 
examination for the language which has not been 
offered for the degree.
OR
 ( b) Candidates applying for the Post of Parliamentary 
Interpreter (English/ Tamil/ English) should 
possess credit passes for Tamil and English and  
Candidates applying for the Post of Parliamentary 
Interpreter (Sinhala/ Tamil/ Sinhala) should 
possess credit passes for Sinhala and Tamil 
at G.C.E (Ordinary Level) Examination and 
have passed 04 subjects in one sitting at G.C.E 
(Advanced Level) Examination (Old Syllabus) 
OR Should have passed 03 subjects in one sitting 
at G.C.E (Advanced Level) Examination (New 
Syllabus) 
  With
  not less than two years of experience in a ﬁ eld 
of Teaching, Interpretation, Translation or Mass 
Media in Tamil or English language for Candidates 
applying for the Post of Parliamentary Interpreter 
(English/ Tamil/ English) and in Sinhala or Tamil 
language for Candidates applying for the Post 
of Parliamentary Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil/ 
Sinhala)
 (c) Candidates who have completed permanent 
continuous service for not less than 5 years in 
Public/ Provincial Public Service as an Interpreter 
or Translator in English/ Tamil  can apply for the 
post of Parliamentary Interpreter (English/ Tamil/ 
English) and candidates who have completed 
permanent continuous service for not less than 5 
years in Public/ Provincial Public Service as an 
Interpreter or Translator in Sinhala/ Tamil   can 
apply for the post of Parliamentary Interpreter 
(Sinhala/ Tamil/Sinhala).
   
4. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made 
on the results of the tests conducted on simultaneous 
interpretation and translation and an interview.  
Note: Candidates possessing quali ﬁ cations under 
3. (a), (b) or (c) and applying for the post of 
Parliamentary Interpreter (English/ Tamil/ English) 
should have the ability to interpret from Tamil to 
English and from English to Tamil simultaneously 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2063
and Candidates possessing quali ﬁ cations under 
3. (a), (b) or (c) and applying for the post of 
Parliamentary Interpreter (Sinhala/ Tamil/ Sinhala) 
should have the ability to interpret from Sinhala to 
Tamil and from Tamil to Sinhala simultaneously. 
Service Experience in simultaneous interpretation 
is not compulsory.
5. Terms & Conditions of Services :
 (i) This post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to the policy decisions taken by 
the Government in future.  Appointment will 
be made subject to a three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been con ﬁ rmed in 
permanent, pensionable post is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to Financial 
and Departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
 (iii) Selected candidates should contribute to 
Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ 
Pension Fund from his / her salary with a 
percentage speci ﬁ ed by the government. They 
will be subjected to a medical examination. 
 (iv) A Security Clearance Report in respect of the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.  
6. Applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certiﬁ cates (not originals) to their applications and original 
certiﬁ cates should be produced, only when called upon to 
do so.  
 ( a) Birth Certi ﬁ cate.
 ( b) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming Educational qualiﬁ cations.
 ( c) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming professional qualiﬁ cations.
 ( d) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming experience.
7. Applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of Departments / Institutions.
8. Canvassing in any form will be a disquali ﬁ cation for 
this post.
9. Any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disquali ﬁ cation, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
10. Applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certi ﬁ cates or not 
sent through Heads of Departments / Institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments 
/Institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will also be rejected. 
 W. B. D. D
ASANAYAKE, 
 Secretary-General of Parliament,
 Parliament of Sri Lanka.
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte.
13th July, 2018.
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
P
OST OF ASSISTANT SERJEANT – AT - ARMS
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
  ( b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––.
  ( c) Full Name (in block Capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––.
 
02.  National Identity Card Number :–––––––––.
03. ( a)  Private Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  ( b) Ofﬁ cial Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  ( c) Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
   Private                                Of ﬁ ce
04.  (a) Date of birth :–––––––––.
   (A copy of the birth Certi ﬁ cate should be attached)
  ( b) Age as at August 09th 2018:  
   Years :–––––––.  Months :–––––––.  Days :––––––.
05. Civil Status :–––––––––. 
06. Sex :–––––––––.
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2064
08. Educational Quali ﬁ cations: (Copies of the certi ﬁ cates 
should be attached):
Examination Subjects Pass Year
G. C. E 
(O/L)
Examination Subjects Pass Year
G. C. E 
(A/L)
Degree Stream Pass Year
09. Professional Quali ﬁ cations (copies of the certi ﬁ cates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
10. Experience (copies of the certi ﬁ cates should be 
attached)  :–––––––––.
11. Details of Present Employment:
  ( a) Name and Address of the Institution :–––––––––.
  ( b) Date of ﬁ rst Appointment :–––––––––.
  ( c) Present Post :–––––––––.
  ( d) Monthly basic Salary :–––––––––.
  ( e) Allowances :–––––––––.
  (f) Gross Salary :–––––––––.
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
Court of Law?:–––––––––.
 If yes, give details :–––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? :––––.
 If yes, give details :–––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disquali ﬁ ed for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Certiﬁ cation of Head of Department/Institution :
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service/Government Corporations/Statutory Boards)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
I recommend and forward the application of Mr. / Mrs. 
/Miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this Institution. I certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.  
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/ 
 Institution.
 (Of ﬁ cial Stamp) 
Date :–––––––––.
07–974/1 
–––––––––––––––––
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
Post of Housekeeping Assistant
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of Housekeeping Assistant on the Staff of the 
Secretary-General of Parliament. 
Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2065
Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before August 
9, 2018. The post of “Housekeeping Assistant” should be 
indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. (This 
advertisement is also available on the website : www.
parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale. – According to the Schedule I of the 
Management Services Circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
salary scale speci ﬁ ed for this post is Rs. 25,520 -                                 
9 x 270 - 10 x 300 - 6 x 330 - Rs. 32,930 /- The selected 
candidates will be placed initially at the monthly salary step 
of Rs. 20,248/= according to the schedule II of the Circular 
mentioned above. (The minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration together with all the allowances will be 
approximately Rs. 50,000)
Housekeeping Assistant on successful completion of 10 
years’ satisfactory service will be eligible for promotion to 
the Post of Senior Housekeeping Assistant.
2. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not 
more than 30 years of age as at August 9, 2018. 
3. Educational Quali ﬁ cations.– Should have passed 
General Certi ﬁ cate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
Examination in six subjects including credit pass for Sinhala 
or Tamil language and passes for Mathematics and English 
at not less than two sittings.
4. Professional Qualiﬁ cations.– Should have successfully 
completed a vocational training course with not less than 05 
months in the ﬁ eld of Hotel Housekeeping, Room Service or 
Room Attendants’ Service conducted by Sri Lanka Institute 
of Tourism and Hotel Management (SLITHM) or National 
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) or 
any other similar vocational training institute.
5. Experience.– Experience not less than 06 months in 
Housekeeping or in a similar post in Hotel Sector.
6. Method of Recruitment.– Through a written test/ trade 
test and an interview.
 
7. Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) This post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to the policy decisions taken by the 
Government in future.  Appointment will be made 
subject to a three-year (03) probation period. If a 
person who has been con ﬁ rmed in a permanent 
and pensionable post in the Public / Provincial 
Public Service is selected, he / she will be 
appointed subject to an acting period of one year.
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to the Financial 
and Departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary - General of Parliament.
 (iii) Selected candidates should contribute to the 
Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ 
Pension Fund from his/her salary with a percentage 
speciﬁ ed by the Government.
 (iv) Selected candidates will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 (v) A Security Clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
  8. Applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certiﬁ cates (not originals) to their applications. Originals of 
the certiﬁ cates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so.
 ( a) Birth Certi ﬁ cate ;
 ( b) Certi ﬁ cates of Educational Qualiﬁ cations ;
 ( c) Certi ﬁ cates of Professional Qualiﬁ cations ;
 ( d) Certi ﬁ cates of Experience.
 9. Applicants serving in Public / Provincial Public 
Service / State Corporations / Statutory Boards should 
send their applications through their respective Heads of 
Departments / Institutions.
10. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualiﬁ cation.
11. Applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certi
ﬁ cates or not 
sent through Heads of Departments / Institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments 
/Institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
 W. B. D. D
ASANAYAKE,
 Secretary-General of Parliament,
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte,
13th July, 2018.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2066
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF HOUSE KEEPING 
ASSISTANT
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
  ( b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––.
  ( c) Full Name (in block Capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––.
02. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––.
03. ( a)  Private Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  ( b) Ofﬁ cial Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  ( c) Please indicate the address to where the admission 
to be posted :
   Private :                              Of ﬁ ce :
04.  (i) Date of Birth :–––––––––.
   (A copy of the birth Certi ﬁ cate should be attached)
  (ii) Age as at August 09th 2018:  
   Years :–––––––.  Months :–––––––.  Days :––––––.
05. Civil Status :–––––––––. 
06. Gender : Male/Female  :–––––––––.
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.
08. Educational Quali ﬁ cations: (Copies of relevant 
certiﬁ cates should be attached):
Examination Subject Pass obtained Year
G. C. E 
(O/L)
Sinhala/Tamil
Mathematics
English
09. Professional Quali ﬁ cations (copies of the certi ﬁ cates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
10. Experience (copies of the certi ﬁ cates should be 
attached)  :–––––––––.
11. Details of Present Employment:
  ( a) Name and Address of the Institution :–––––––––.
  ( b) Present Post :–––––––––.
  ( c) Date of First Appointment :–––––––––.
  ( d) Monthly basic Salary :–––––––––.
  ( e) Allowances :–––––––––.
  (f) Gross Salary :–––––––––.
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
Court of Law?:–––––––––.
 If so, give details :–––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? :––––.
 If so, give details :–––––––––.
I do hereby certify that all the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disquali ﬁ ed for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Certiﬁ cation of Head of Department/Institution :
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service/Government Corporations/Statutory Boards)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
I recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs 
/Miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this Institution. I certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.  
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/ 
 Institution.
 (Of ﬁ cial Stamp) 
Date :–––––––––.
07–974/2

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2067
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
Post of Director
(Catering and House-Keeping Services)
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who 
are physically sound and of excellent moral character for the 
post of Director (Catering and House-Keeping Services) on 
the staff of the Secretary- General of Parliament.
The candidate should be a self motivated, dynamic, 
committed professional with a passion in maintaining 
highest standards in both quality and services excellence to 
head in Catering and Housekeeping Department.
Please send in your resume with names of two non-
related of referees, under registered cover to reach the 
Secretary–General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, 
Sri Jayewardenepura, Kotte on or before 09 August 2018, 
indicating the post applied for on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope. (This Notice is accessible via www.
parliament.lk)
1. Salary.– According to the Schedule I of the Management 
Services Circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, salary scale 
speciﬁ ed for this post is Rs. 67,485 – 4 x 1,630 / 8 x 2,170 
– 91,365. (The minimum initial gross monthly remuneration 
together with all the allowances will be approximately               
Rs. 135,000.00)
2.  Other Beneﬁ ts :
• Fully maintained vehicle with a limited private 
mileage. 
• Allowances paid to the Parliament Staff.
3.  Job Pro ﬁ le.– As the Head of the Catering and 
Housekeeping Department you will be responsible for :
• Managing, planning, co-ordinating, executing 
and supervising the work of the Catering and 
Housekeeping Department of the Parliament.
• Establishing and maintaining systems and 
procedures for ordering, receiving, storing, 
preparing and serving of food and related products, 
as well as menu planning and development.
• Ensuring that requirements for appropriate 
sanitation and safety levels in respective areas are 
met.
• Co-ordinating and supervising personnel regarding 
production, merchandising, quality and cost control 
as well as employee training and to manage and 
maintain an effective and productive workforce.
• Maintaining inventories, accounts and records to 
comply with Government standards.
• Co-ordinate and liaise effectively with the other 
departments of the Parliament.
4.  Qualiﬁ cations :
• Full time 4 year diploma holder of the Ceylon 
Hotel School and/ or degree or other similar 
qualiﬁ cation in the Food and Beverage, Cookery, 
Housekeeping or other related ﬁ eld. Qualiﬁ cations 
in Business Management will be an added 
advantage.
• A minimum of 7 years experience in a senior 
management position in the Hospitality Trade.
• Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
• Strong initiative and a drive to achieve objectives.
• Ability to respond effectively to change and 
demands. 
• A high degree of pro ﬁ ciency in English.
• Experience and knowledge of Microsoft Of ﬁ ce 
Applications.
• Age between 35-45 years.
 (The upper age limit will not apply to those already 
holding a  permanent position in the Parliamentary 
Service or Government Service).
Note:  Those who are already in salary group “IA” or 
above in the Parliamentary Service (i.e. Executive 
Chef, Food and Beverage Manager) may also apply 
for this post.
5.  Method of recruitment. – Through a structured 
interview.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2068
6.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) This post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to policy decisions taken by the 
Government in future.  Appointment will be 
made subject to a three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been con ﬁ rmed in a 
permanent, pensionable post is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to the 
Financial and Departmental Regulations 
applicable to the staff of the Secretary-General 
of Parliament.
 (iii) Selected candidates should contribute to 
Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’ and 
Orphans’ Pension Fund from his / her salary 
with a percentage speci ﬁ ed by the Government. 
Selected candidates will be subject to a medical 
examination. 
 (iv) A Security Clearance Report in respect of the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.  
7. Applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certiﬁ cates (not originals) to their applications.  Originals of 
the certiﬁ cates should be produced, only when called upon 
to do so.  
 (a) Birth Certi ﬁ cate.
 (b) Certi ﬁ cates of Educational qualiﬁ cations.
 (c) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming professional qualiﬁ cations.
 (d) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming experience.
 (e)  Two recent testimonials to applicant’s character.
  (The testimonials referred to at (e) are not 
required in the case of applicants already in the 
Public/Provincial Public Service/ Government 
Corporations /Statutory Boards.) 
8. Applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of Departments / Institutions.
9. Canvassing in any form will be a disquali ﬁ cation for 
this post.
10. Any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disquali ﬁ cation, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
11. Applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certi ﬁ cates or not 
sent through Heads of Departments / Institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments 
/Institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will also be rejected. 
        W. M. N. P. Iddawala,
  Chief of Staff & 
  Deputy Secretary-General of Parliament.
       
Parliament of Sri Lanka,   
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte.
17th July, 2018.
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
Post of Director (Catering & Housekeeping Services)
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
  ( b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––.
  ( c) Full Name (in block Capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––.
02. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––.
03. ( a)  Private Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  ( b) Ofﬁ cial Address :–––––––––.
   Telephone No. :–––––––––.
  ( c) Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
   Private                                Of ﬁ ce
04.  (a) Date of birth :–––––––––.
   (A copy of the birth Certi
ﬁ cate should be attached)
  ( b) Age as at 09th August 2018:  
   Years :–––––––.  Months :–––––––.  Days :––––––.
05. Civil Status :–––––––––. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2069
06. Sex :–––––––––.
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.
08. Educational Quali ﬁ cations: (Copies of the certi ﬁ cates 
should be attached):
Examination Subjects Pass Year
G. C. E 
(O/L)
Examination Subjects Pass Year
G. C. E 
(A/L)
Degree Stream Pass Year
09. Professional Quali ﬁ cations (copies of the certi ﬁ cates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
10. Experience (copies of the certi ﬁ cates should be 
attached)  :–––––––––.
11. Details of Present Employment:
  ( a) Name and Address of the Institution :–––––––––.
  ( b) Date of ﬁ rst Appointment :–––––––––.
  ( c) Present Post :–––––––––.
  ( d) Monthly basic Salary :–––––––––.
  ( e) Allowances :–––––––––.
  (f) Gross Salary :–––––––––.
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
Court of Law?:–––––––––.
 If yes, give details :–––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? :––––.
 If yes, give details :–––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disquali ﬁ ed for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Certiﬁ cation of Head of Department/Institution :
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/Government Corporations/
Statutory Boards)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
I recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs 
/Miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this Institution. I certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.  
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/ 
 Institution.
 (Of ﬁ cial Stamp) 
Date :–––––––––.
07–979

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2070
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Open Competitive Examination to Recruit 
Graduates to Grade 3-I (a) of Sri Lanka Teachers’ 
Service for Sinhala and Tamil Medium School 
Student Counselling in National and Provincial 
Schools in the Island – 2018 
APPLICATIONS are called from quali ﬁ ed female/male 
candidates for the recruitment of graduates to grade               
3-I (a) of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service for Sinhala a nd Tamil 
medium school student counselling purposes in national and 
provincial schools in the island. Applications prepared as 
per the specimen given at the end of this Gazette notiﬁ cation 
should be posted by registered post on or before 23.08.2018 
to reach “Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka 
Department of Examinations, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo”.   In 
addition, the name of the examination should be mentioned 
additionally in Tamil language in Sinhala applications 
whereas in Sinhala in Tamil application. “Open Competitive 
Examination to Recruit Graduates to Grade 3-I (a) of Sri 
Lanka Teachers’ Service for Sinhala and Tamil Medium 
School Student Counselling in National and Provincial 
Schools in the Island – 2018” should compulsorily be 
appeared on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the applications.
Note 1 .– No consideration will be made regarding 
complaints of loss or delay of an application or a 
letter in the post. Applicants themselves shall bear 
the disadvantages caused due to delay of applications 
until the closing date.
02. Method of Recruitment to Service : 
2.1 A number equal to ﬁ ve (05) times the amount of 
existing vacancies will be called for the interview 
from the candidates obtained a minimum marks of 
40% to each test paper of the written competitive  
examination conducted by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. Applicants do not 
satisfy the quali ﬁ cations as per this Gazatte 
notiﬁ cation shall be rejected at the interview.
2.2 Those quali ﬁ ed from the general interview will be 
subject to a practical examination as per section 
13.3 of this Gazette noti ﬁ cation in order to 
measure learning and teaching process important 
in the profession and thereafter recruitments 
will be made as per the number of vacancies 
depending on the school based system subject 
to the priority of the total marks obtained at the 
practical and written tests by the candidate.
2.3 Vacancy list pertaining to the applicants will be 
displayed at the time of the interview and at the 
same instance the candidates may indicate their 
preference to take their appointments respectively 
for the schools where vacancies exist.
 Note 2. – When several candidates applied for 
one school have obtained equal marks, suitable 
candidates will be chosen as per a precise 
marking procedure, approved by the Secretary to 
the ministry of Education prior to calling them for 
practical examination. 
2.4 No transfers will be applied until 05 years since 
these recruitments are made depending on school 
based system. 
2.5  Vacancy list :
Province 
National Schools Provincial Schools
Sinhala 
medium
Tamil 
medium
Sinhala 
medium
Tamil 
medium
Western √√ --
Central √√ √√
Southern √√ --
Northern √√ --
Eastern √√ --
North western √√√√
North central √ ---
Sabaragamuwa √ - √√
Uva √√ --
Note 3.– Applicants for Provincial Council Schools 
Should be permanent residents of the particular 
province. 
3. Condition of engagement in service:
 (i) This post is permanent and subject to the policy 
decisions taken in the future by the government 
with regard to the pension scheme applicable to 
the post. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2071
 (ii) Of ﬁ cers recruited to this post are subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years and the 
ﬁ rst ef ﬁ ciency bar examination within those 
three (03) years.
 (iii) Pro ﬁ ciency in the National Language should be 
obtained as per Public Administration Circular 
No. 01/2014 and Circulars incidental to it. 
 
 (iv) This appointment is subject to procedural rules of 
the public service commission, establishments’ 
code of Democratic Socialist republic of Sri 
Lanka, ﬁ nancial regulations of the government as 
well as other rules and orders of the departments. 
 (v) This appointment is subject to the provisions of 
Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service minute published 
in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1885/38 of 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as 
well as any amendment made thereby and the 
general conditions pertaining to appointment in 
the public service. 
04. Salary scale.– This post is entitled for a salary scale 
of Rs. 27,740 – 300 x 6 – 380 x 7 – 445 x 2 - Rs.33,090/- 
(monthly) of G-E-01-2016 as per Public Administration 
Salary Circular No. 03/2016. The appointees will be placed 
in Rs.32,200/=, which is the 14
th step of the said salary scale. 
Salaries will be paid as per provisions of Schedule II of the 
same circular. Apart from that you are entitled for other 
allowances paid from time to time to Government Ofﬁ cers.
  
05. Educational qualiﬁ cations :
 5.1 Following quali ﬁ cations should have been 
accomplished at 23.08.2018 as per Sri Lanka 
Teachers’ Service minute as well as the cabinet 
decision No. CP/17/0653/742/009 dated 
23.05.2017. 
 (i) A special degree in Psychology/
Sociology obtained from a University 
recognized by the University Grants 
Commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the University 
Grants Commission  should be available. 
   or
 (ii) A general degree obtained with 
Psychology /Sociology as a main subject 
from a University recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or a 
degree awarding institution recognized 
by the University Grants Commission 
 should be available. 
   or
 (iii) Any degree obtained from a University 
or any other degree awarding institution 
recognized by the University Grans 
Commission 
  with
        (a) A diploma on counselling of not 
less than one year duration obtained 
from a university or any other degree 
awarding institution recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or 
from an institution approved by tertiary 
education commission.   
  or
             (b) A post graduate diploma on counselling 
of not less than one year duration 
obtained from a university or any other 
degree awarding institution recognized 
by the University Grants Commission.
Note 4. -  Apart from the above quali ﬁ cations, 
each candidate should have passed Sinhala or 
Tamil language as a subject at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
examination. 
06. Age limit.– Age at 23.08.2018 :
Minimum limit : 18 years
Maximum limit : 35 years
Accordingly, only those born on or before 23.08.2000 or 
on or after 23.08.1983 are eligible to apply for this. 
07. Other requirements :
 (i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Applicants should be of excellent character.
 (iii) All quali ﬁ cations required for recruitment to the 
post should be accomplished, at the closing date 
of calling applications.
 (iv) Every candidate shall possess the suf ﬁ cient 
physical and mental capability to serve in any 
area of the country and take the responsibilities 
in the post.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2072
08. Method of application :
 8.1 Application should comply with the specimen 
attached herewith and it should be prepared using 
both sides of a A 4 size paper while the candidate 
himself should ﬁ ll with his handwriting. It should 
be specially considered that headings from 
1.0 to 5.5 should be appeared on the ﬁ rst page 
while the remaining in the second page in their 
application with the same medium applying for. 
The applications inconsistent with the specimen 
application as well as those incomplete will be 
rejected without notice. (Keeping a copy of the 
application may be of use). The candidate may 
ensure whether the completed application is 
in consistent with the specimen in the gazette 
notiﬁ cation as well as whether accurately 
completed including all information and whether 
the paying voucher has been af ﬁ xed in proof of 
payment of precise examination fee. Otherwise 
the application will be rejected. 
 8.2 Only one application can be submitted by an 
applicant.
 8.3 Signature of the applicant should be certi ﬁ ed 
in both the application as well as the admission 
for the examination. A candidate applying for 
the examination through a particular institution 
may certify his / her signature by the head of the 
institution while those applying else means may 
get their signature certi ﬁ ed by either a principal 
of a government school, a Grama Niladhari in 
the division, a justice of peace, commissioner 
for oaths, an attorney – at – law, a notary public, 
a commissioned of ﬁ cer in the permanent cadre 
of the armed forces or a permanent of ﬁ cer in 
the staff grade of Central Government Service 
or Provincial Government Service obtaining a 
consolidated annual salary of Rs. 240,360/- or 
more or a chief priest or incumbent of a Buddhist 
temple or a religious institution.
 8.4 The commissioner general of examinations, 
may issue admissions to candidates within 
the age limit given in the gazette noti ﬁ cation 
and have submitted accurately completed 
application with the paying voucher af ﬁ xed to 
it in proof of payment of precise examination 
fee. The Department of Examinations shall 
publish a newspaper noti ﬁ cation as soon as the 
admissions are issued. If no admission received 
even after 2 or 3 days from the noti ﬁ cation had 
been published, the non – receipt of admission 
should be inquired from organization and foreign 
examinations branch of Sri Lanka Department 
of Examinations. When inquiring likewise, the 
applicant should accurately indicate the name 
of the examination he/ she applied for, name 
in full of the applicant, National Identity card 
number, as well as the correct address. If the 
candidate is a resident away from Colombo, it 
would be much useful to send a request letter 
containing a fax number that the admission can 
be immediately sent along with the other details 
to the fax Number 011-2784232 mentioned in the 
gazette notiﬁ cation. Copy of the application, the 
paying voucher along with the receipt of postal 
registration should be kept ready when inquiring 
such. 
09.  Sitting the examination :  
 9.1 The Commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admissions to all the applications 
received. A candidate to sit for the 
examination should hand over the admission 
to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall. No 
permission will be granted to candidates fail to 
furnish such prescribed document.
 9.2 A candidate should sit for the examination at the 
venue prescribed for him / her. Every candidate 
should get his / her signature certi ﬁ ed on the 
admission and hand over the admission to the 
supervisor of the examination centre at the very 
ﬁ rst day he / she is sitting for the examination. 
Candidates are subject to rules imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examination with 
regard to conducting the examination. Breach 
of such rules and regulations may result in 
penalty imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations.
Note 5. - Issuance of an admission to a candidate is 
not considered as an acceptance of quali ﬁ cations 
for sitting the examination or holding a post and 
not considered that passing the examination is a 
qualiﬁ cation for been appointed either. 
10. Identity of the candidates. – A candidate shall prove 
his identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall with regard to each subject he/she is sitting 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2073
for. Either of the following identity documents should be 
submitted for the purpose.  
 (i) National Identity card issued by the department 
of registration of persons,
 (ii) Valid passport.
11. Penalty for supplying false information.– Accurate 
information should be furnished carefully when 
completing the application. If any candidate proved to 
have no qualiﬁ cation as per the rules and conditions of this 
examination, candidature of such applicant will be cancelled 
before, during the examination or after the examination. 
12. Method and medium of examination :
 12.1 This examination will be conducted in Colombo 
in Sinhala and Tamil media.
 12.2 Both subjects should be passed at least with 
40 marks respectively to pass the written 
examination. 
 12.3 Every candidate shall sit all the question papers 
in this examination, in one language medium. 
That medium of language shall be the same 
medium of their appointment. 
 12.4 A candidate is not allowed to change the 
medium of language in his / her application 
later on. 
13. Syllabus :
 13.1 Written examination.– There are two question 
papers prescribed for this examination. All 
the candidates shall compulsorily sit for both 
question papers. 
 (I)  Aptitude test - Time 01 hour. (100 marks)
  This question paper is prepared to 
measure the skills and logical intellegence 
of the candidate for teaching profession. 
It consisted of 50 multiple choice and 
short answered type questions. All those 
questions should be answered. 
 (II)  General knowledge   - Time 01 hour. 
(100 marks)
  Consisted of 50 multiple choice and 
short answered type questions to evaluate 
the general knowledge with regard 
to teaching profession and / or local 
trends in education sphere occurred and 
occurring as well as regarding education 
modiﬁ cation. All those questions should 
be answered. 
 13.2 General interview  :
  No marks will be awarded for the general 
interview.
Note 6 :    Objectives expected to be accomplished -  
   Examining whether quali ﬁ cations mentioned 
in this Gazette notiﬁ cation or the newspaper 
advertisement which is published according 
to the service minute have been fulﬁ lled and 
whether physical qualiﬁ cations are fulﬁ lled. 
 13.3  Practical examination :
  A presentation identi ﬁ ed by the candidate 
should be carried out as the practical 
examination. Not less than 05 minutes will 
be allocated for the purpose. Following 
marks will be awarded for that. 
Serial 
No.
Criteria of marking 
at the practical 
examination 
Maximum 
marks
Minimum 
marks for a 
pass
01 Objective and 
beginning
05 02
02 Personality and 
voice control
05 02
03 Clearness of 
communication
05 02
04 Time management 05 02
05 Use of presentation 
methodologies
05 02
Total marks 25 10
Note 7 :  Objectives expected to be accomplished - 
Evaluation of efﬁ ciency of the candidate in learning 
teaching process essential in teaching profession. 
14. Examination fees :
 14.1 Examination fee will be Rs. 600/-. Invoice 
obtained to the name of the candidate himself 
from any post / sub post of ﬁ ce crediting the 
amount to the government income under 
revenue head 2003-02-13 should be pasted on 
the relevant cage of the application and the 
invoice number should be written therein as 
well. (Keeping a photocopy of the invoice will 
be useful). (Kindly be informed that no charge 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2074
other than this examination fee will be charged). 
Kindly be informed that no other charge will be 
obtained other than this examination fee. No 
money orders or stamps will be accepted for the 
examination fee. No reimbursing or transferring 
to another examination of this examination fee 
will be made. 
15. Results of the examination :
15.1 Secretary, Ministry of Education will be furnished 
with the result sheet prepared as per the priority of the total 
marks of the written examination by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. Results of candidates sat for 
the examination will either be noti ﬁ ed in person or will be 
published in www.results.exam.gov.lk website. 
16. Instructions to complete the application.– Please use 
only schedule 01,02 and 03 below when completing the 
application.
Schedule 01
Medium of language Code No.
Sinhala medium 2
Tamil medium 3
Schedule 02
Category of School Code No.
National School 1
Province Schoo1 2
Schedule 03
Province Code No.
Central Province 2
North Western Province 6
Sabaragamuwa Province 9
17. It is compulsory for ofﬁ cers already in the government 
service to submit the certi ﬁ ed  applications through their 
heads of the department under the heading No. 11.0 of the 
application. 
18. No further consideration will be made with regard to 
the applications of those not participating in the interview 
on the precise date
19.  Further to that all the certiﬁ cates should be submitted 
at the date of the interview whereas no certiﬁ cate forwarded 
thereafter will be accepted. 
20. Right to decide on any matter not covered by this 
notiﬁ cation as well as ﬁ lling or not ﬁ lling all or part of 
the vacancies or taking ﬁ nal decision on such lies with 
the education services committee of the public service 
commission.  
21. In case of any inconsistency among the segments of 
this noti ﬁ cation which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, vide Sinhala medium notiﬁ cation where 
necessary.
 S
UNIL HETTIARACHCHI,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, 
Pelawatte, Battaramulla,
On the 11th July,  2018.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
                                                   For ofﬁ ce use only
         
M
INISTRY OF EDUCATION
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT GRADUATES TO GRADE 3-I (a) OF SRI LANKA TEACHERS’ SERVICE FOR SINHALA AND TAMIL 
MEDIUM SCHOOL STUDENT COUNSELLING IN NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL SCHOOLS IN THE ISLAND – 2018 
1.0  Indicate the code using schedule 01 for the medium of language applied.
     Medium of language    
     (Write in the relevant cage)
2.0  Applying for the Vacancies :
  2.1 Category of School
   (Write the category of school code No.in the cage, according to include schedule 02)                 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2075
  2.2 Code No. of the province, if it is a provincial School
   (Write the provincial code No.in the cage, according to include schedule 03) 
3.0  3.1  Name in full (in block letters) (Ex: AMRAKOON  MUDIYANSELAGE  NAMAL HERATH) :–––––––––––.
  3.2 Last name ﬁ rst with initials of the other names to the end of the last name ( Ex:- HERATH.A.M. N) :––––––––––.
  3.3 Name in full (in Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––.
4.0  Present address (in block letters) :–––––––––––.
 (Admissions will be posted to this address) 
5.0   5.1  National Identity Card No. : 
  5.2  Marital status : Unmarried – 1 Married – 2  (write in the relevant cage)                         
  5.3  Date of birth :Year :       Month : Date :
  5.4  Age as at 23.08.2018  :      Years :    Months :   Days :
  5.5  Sex (Female – 1 Male – 0) (write in the relevant cage)
6.0 Details of Education Qualiﬁ cations :
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination G.C.E. (A/L) Examination
Year :––––––––––.      Examination No. :––––––––––.
Subject                  Pass             Subject           Pass   
Year :––––––––––.   Examination No. :––––––––––.
Subject                            Pass           
16 1
27 2
38 3
49 4
51 0
7.0  Details of higher educational qualiﬁ cations :
  7.1  Degree :–––––––––––.         
  7.2  University of issue :–––––––––––.
  7.3  Date of validity of the degree :–––––––––––.
  7.4  Main subject / s followed for the degree :–––––––––––.
  7.5  Medium of the degree :–––––––––––.
8.0  Details of payment of examination fees :
  8.1 Examination fees paid Rs. (in words) :–––––––––––.
  8.2  No. of the invoice :–––––––––––.
  8.3  Issuing of ﬁ ce :–––––––––––. 
  8.4  Date :–––––––––––.
Keep a photocopy of the paying voucher with you.
Paste the voucher to this application from one edge to avoid detachment.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2076
9.0 Statement of the Applicant :
I do herewith state that the information furnished 
herewith by me are true. I am aware that I will be dismissed 
from service if revealed disquali ﬁ ed after selection to the 
post. In addition I do state that I am abided by the laws 
and regulations enforced by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to conducting the Examination. 
No information herewith will not be changed later on. More 
fully, I do state that I am abided by laws and regulations 
enforced by the Commission of Examinations with regard to 
conducting the examination and issuance of results. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.                             
10.0  Certiﬁ cation of applicant’s signature :
I do hereby certify Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ……………………… 
submitting this application herewith is known to me 
personally, and he / she placed his / her signature before 
me on this ……… day of ………………. . Also he / she 
paid the relevant Examination fee and pasted the relevant 
payment voucher herewith.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the certifying of ﬁ cer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the certifying ofﬁ cer :–––––––––––. 
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Certify with the ofﬁ cial stamp)
11.0  Certiﬁ cation of the head of the department if the 
candidate is already a government employee :
Application of Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………… is 
submitted herewith. He/she is serving as a permanent/ 
temporary/casual employee of this Ministry/ Department 
and it is informed that he/she can/cannot be released from 
service if she is selected for this post.   
    
                             ––––––––––––––,
            Signature of the head of the Department 
 of the authorized of ﬁ cer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
(Certify with the ofﬁ cial stamp)
07–920
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination for 
Ofﬁ cers in Grade I of Grama Niladhari 
Service - 2018
1.0 IT is hereby notiﬁ ed that an Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination 
for the ofﬁ cers in Grade I of Grama Niladhari Service will 
be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations, in 
the month of November 2018 as per the approved service 
minute of Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are 
hreby called for the same.
2.0 This examination for of ﬁ cers in Grade I of the 
Grama Niladhari Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,  
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, 
Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Rathnapura 
and Kilinochchi. Examination will be held only in the towns 
determined for the purpose. The list of relevant towns and 
town numbers are given in the table below. The relevant 
section of the application should be ﬁ lled by referring to 
the table of towns and town numbers given below. It will 
not be allowed to change subsequently the town/ towns 
indicated. Any centre mentioned above can be cancelled 
due to insufﬁ ciency of candidates and the candidates can be 
directed to a nearby centre.
 Town  Town No.
 Colombo 01
 Kandy 02
 Galle 03
 Matara 04
 Jaffna 05
 Mannar 06
 Mullaitivu 07
 Trincomalee 08
 Batticaloa 09
 Kurunegala 10
 Anuradhapura 11
 Badulla 12
 Rathnapura 13
 Kilinochchi 14
3.0 (i)  This examination will be conducted by the 
Commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2077
 (ii)  The rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation. Candidates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner- 
General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Of ﬁ cers who have been appointed to 
posts in Grade I of Grama Niladhari Service as per the 
Procedure of Recruitment effective from 29.09.2010 are 
eligible to appear for this examination. 
5.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects :–
 Subject Marks Duration Subject
    No.
  
1. Ofﬁ ce systems, General  100 1 1/2 hours 01
  conduct and discipline
  in the Public Service
2. Subject Related Studies 100 1 1/2 hours 02
  and Profeesional 
  Knowledge
 5.1 Of ﬁ ce Systems, General conduct and Discipline 
in the Public Service
  Ofﬁ ce Systems :
  This paper  is intended to test the candidate's 
knowledge of of ﬁ ce systems adopted in 
government ofﬁ ces and Grama Niladhari Of ﬁ ces 
and his/her ability of practical application of the 
knowledge. 
  General conduct and discipline in the Public 
Service :
  The candidates' knoweldge on delegation of 
power on disciplinary matters according to the 
regulations of Public Service Commission, 
termination of service, regulations with regard 
to sending on retirement and provisions in 
Chapter XLVII and XLVIII in V olume II of the 
Establishments Code on general conduct and 
disciplinary procedures and circulars issued at 
present in relation to the above will be tested. 
  
  This paper consists of two parts  
  Part I- A paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes. (25 marks)
  Part II- A paper consisting of 03 semi structured 
essay type questions. All 03 questions 
should be answered. Duration is 1 hour 
(75 marks)
  5.2 Subject related studies and Professional 
Knowledge :
   The knowledge of the of ﬁ cers on duties entrusted 
to Grama Niladharies by various rules and 
regulations, Ministries, Departments, Provincial 
Councils and other statutory institutions of the 
government shall be tested and further a case 
study will be given to the candidate on matters 
relevant to the subjects.   
  Part I- A paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes. (25 marks)  
  Part II- A paper consisting of 03 semi structured 
essay type questions. All 03 questions 
should be answered. Duration is 01 hour 
(75 marks)
6.0 The examination will be held only in Sinhala and 
Tamil medium and candidates should answer question 
papers in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an of ﬁ cial 
language. In case of candidates who entered the service 
without a Competitive Examination, both papers should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an of ﬁ cial language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Ofﬁ cers may appear separately for each subject and 
at different occasions at their discretion. However, they 
should score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for 
each subject for a pass. The ﬁ nal date of the year of holding 
Examination on which the candidate to complete the 
examination passing all the subjects shall be treated as the 
date of passing the Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination.
8.0 The results of the examination will be issued by 
the Commissioner General of Examination to me and 
action will be taken to notify the applicants the names of 
the candidates who have passed the examination through 
District Secretaries and Divisional Secretaries.
9.0 The application for this examination should be 
in the form of the specimen appended to this noti ﬁ cation 
and should be prepared by the candidates him/ her self. 
Applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
Divisional Secretary of their Divisional Secretariat Division 
to reach the Commissioner- General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations Organization and Foreign 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2078
Examinations Branch, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo,  on or 
before 27th August 2018. The name of the examination 
should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. Applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected. Incomplete applications, too, 
will not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates .– Candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For 
this purpose one of the following documents, along with the 
admission card issued by the Department of Examinations on 
which the signature has been certi ﬁ ed should be submitted 
to the supervisor.
 (i) The National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registrations of Persons.
 (ii) A valid Passport.
 (iii) A valid Driving License. 
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the Commissioner - General of Examinations.
11.0 Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a 
paper of A4 size  in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 6.0 
appear on the ﬁ rst page and 6.0 and 7.0 on the second page. 
The application could be typewritten but it should be ﬁ lled 
in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting. 
Application should strictly conform to the specimen 
appended and candidates are advised not to sent more than 
one application or photocopies. Applications that do not 
comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate the 
title of the examination appearing the specimen in English 
language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application 
forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure 
that the application form perfected by him/her complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice and further it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.
12.0 Ofﬁ cers appearing for the examination for the ﬁ rst 
time need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent 
sitting, Rs. 400/= for the whole examination and Rs. 200/= 
for only one subject should be paid at any Post/ Sub Post 
Ofﬁ ce island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-
02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The 
receipt obtained in favor of the applicant should be af ﬁ xed 
to the relevant cage of the applications form. It is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. The 
fee paid for this examination will not be refunded under any 
circumstance. It will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid 
for this examination in favor of another.  
13.0 The Commissioner- General of Examinations will 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose duly perfected applications have been 
received a long with the receipt of the examination fees, 
if any issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has ful ﬁ lled the 
qualiﬁ cations to sit the examination. Candidates should get 
their signature on the admission card attested in advance 
and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
A noti ﬁ cation will be published in newspapers as soon 
as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, 
Department of Examinations in the manner speci ﬁ ed in 
the advertisement. It would be advisable to send a request 
letter to the Department of Examinations with the following, 
certiﬁ ed photocopies of the application form and the receipt 
kept at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of 
applicants outside Colombo, letter of a fax number to which 
the admission card should be sent. It would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the letter of request. 
14.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty 
leave for ofﬁ cers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses 
will be paid.
15.0 The candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examination on conducting the examination. He/She is liable 
to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examination for breach of these rules and if a candidates 
is found to be ineligible in accordance with the relearn 
regulations, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to during or after the examination. And my 
decision shall be the ﬁ nal in respect of any matters related 
to this subject which in not provided for in this notiﬁ cation. 
16.0 If it appears that there is any inconsistency or 
mismatch between language texts in this notiﬁ cation, which 
is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums, the 
notiﬁ cation in Sinhala medium shall prevail and thus, action 
will be taken accordingly. 
 S. T. K
ODIKARA,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Home Affairs.
Ministry of Home Affairs,
Independent Squire,
Colombo 07,
12th
   July, 2018.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2079
Specimen Form of Application
(For ofﬁ ce use only)
 
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN 
GRADE I OF GRAMA NILADHARI  SERVICE - 2018
  Town Town No.
 First Choice 1. 
 Second Choice 2. 
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which 
you wish to sit for the examination, in the order of your 
choice, as per the para No .2.0 in the Gazette notiﬁ cation, 
this is not allowed to be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination :
Sinhala  - 2
Tamil  - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage, this is not 
allowed to be changed subsequently)
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :–––––.
  ( Eg. HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMA  GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Last Name With initials at the end :–––––––––.
  (In English Block Capitals) 
  ( Eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K.) 
 1.3 Name in full  :–––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/ Tamil)
 
2.0 2.1 Address to which the admission card should be 
sent  :–––––––––.
   (In English Block Capitals)
 2.2 District and the District number to which the 
ofﬁ cer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (Indicate as per the Schedule I) (In English Block 
Capitals)
 2.3 Divisional Secretariat and Divisional Secretariat 
number to which the ofﬁ cer is attached :––––. 
  (Indicate as per the Schedule I) (In English Block 
Capitals)
 2.4 District and the Divisional Secretariat to which 
the ofﬁ cer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/ Tamil)
3.0 3.1 National Identity Card No. :
 3.2 Sex :-
  Female  - 1
  Male  - 0
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
 3.3 Date of Birth :-  
  Year : Month : Date :
 4.0  Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 
of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation):
  Index No. Subject Subject No.
   01.
   02.
5.0 5.1 Grade :––––––––.
 5.2 Post :––––––––.
 5.3 Date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––.
 5.4 Telephone No. :––––––––.
6.0 N.B.– The receipt of the examination fee obtained from 
the Post/ Sub Post Of ﬁ ce in favour of the applicant 
should be afﬁ xed here ﬁ rmly : 
 
  Receipt No. :–––––––––.
  Post/sub post Of ﬁ ce :–––––––––.
  Date :–––––––––.
  Amount Rs. :–––––––––.
7.0 I declare that the above particulars are true and that I 
am eligible to appear the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. Further, I agree to be bound by 
the rules and regulations issued by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations regarding this examination. 
And I af ﬁ rm that I sit for the said examination as my 
ﬁ rst sitting/ I have paid the relevant examination fee and 
the receipt has been afﬁ xed hereto.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2080
Certiﬁ cation of the Divisional Secretary
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ............................................ 
Grama Niladhari, who works at Gama Niladhari Division of  
................................. in Divisional secretary’s Division of ...
....................................................and
 (i) has placed his/her signature in my presence ;
 (ii) have checked the details provided above ;
 (iii) the of ﬁ cer is eligible to sit for this examination :
 (iv) the of ﬁ cer is exempted from the examination 
fee since the ﬁ rst sitting/the recepit of the 
prescribed examination fee is afﬁ xed here (Delete 
inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and of ﬁ cial stamp of the 
 Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address:–––––––––.
Date:–––––––––.
SCHEDULE I
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Divi sion District
Colombo 1103
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
Homagama 1112
Hanwella 1115 Colombo
Padukka 1118
Maharagama 1121 0   1
Sri Jayawardanapura 1124
 Kotte
Thimbirigasyaya 1127
Dehiwala 1130
Rathmalana 1131
Moratuwa 1133
Kesbewa 1136
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Divis ion District
Negombo 1203 Gampaha
Katana 1206
Divulapitiya 1209 0     2
Meerigama 1212
Minuwangoda 1215 Gampaha
Wattala 1218
Ja-Ela 1221 0       2
Gampaha 1224
Attanagalla 1227
Dompe 1230
Mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
Biyagama 1239
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Divis ion District
Panadura 1303
Bandaragama 1306
Horana 1309
Ingiriya 1310
Bulathsinghela 1312 Kalutara
Madurawala 1315
Millaniya 1318 0     3
Kalutara 1321
Beruwala 1324
Dodangoda 1327
Mathugama 1330
Agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Divis ion District
Thumpane 2103
Poojapitiya 2106
Akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
Ududumbara 2118
Minipe 2121 Kandy
Medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127 0      4
Gangawata Korale 2130
Harispattuwa 2133
Hataraliyadda 2134
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Divis ion District

<!-- page 23 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2081
Yatinuwara 2136
Udunuwara 2139
Doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145 Kandy
Delthota 2148
Udapalatha 2151 0    4
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Galewela 2203
Dambulla 2206 
Naula 2209 
Pallepola 2212 Matale
Yatawatta 2215 
Matale 2218 0     5
Ambangaga Korale 2221  
Laggala Pallegama 2224
Wilgamuwa 2227  
Raththota 2230
Ukuwela 2233
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kothmale 2303 Nuwara
Haguranketha 2306 Eliya
Walapane 2309 
Nuwara Eliya 2312 0     6
Ambagamuwa 2315
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secr etary's Division District
Benthota 3103 Galle
Balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109 0      7
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
Thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121 
Nagoda 3124
Baddegama 3127 
Welivitiya Divithura 3130
Ambalangoda 3133 Galle
Hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139 0      7
Bope Poddala 3142
Akmeemana 3145
Yakkalamulla 3148
Imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
Habaraduwa 3157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secr etary's Division District
Pitabeddara 3203 
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209 
Mulatiyana 3212
Athuruliya 3215
Akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221 Matara 
Malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227 0    8 
Hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
Thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
Matara 3242
Devinuwara 3245
Dikwella 3248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Sooriyawewa 3303
Lunugamwehera 3306 Hambanthota
Thissamaharama 3309
Hambanthota 3312 0    9
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District

<!-- page 24 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2082
Ambalanthota 3315
Angunakolapelessa 3318 
Weeraketiya 3321 Hambanthota
Katuwana 3324
Okewela 3327 0    9
Beliatta 3330
Tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kayts (Island North) 4103
Chankanei (Walikamum 
 West) 4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum 
 South West) 4109
Thelippalei  Jaffna
 (Walikamum North) 4112
Uduvil (Walikamum  1    0
 South) 4115
Kopai (Walikamum 4118
 East)
Karaweddi (Wadama-  
 rach chi South West) 4121
Maruthankerny 
 (Wadamarachchi East) 4124
Point Pedro (Wadam- 4127
 arachchi North)
Chawakachcheri   
 (Thenmarachchi) 4130
Nallur 4133   
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (Island South) 4139
Delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Divi sion District
Mannar 4203
Manthai West 4206 Mannar
Madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212 1     1
Musali 4215
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secre tary's Division District
Vavuniya North 4303 Vavuniya
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309 1     2
Vengalacheddikulam 4312
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Thunukkai 4403
Manthai East 4406 Mullativu
Pudukuduirippu 4409
Oddusudan 4412 1     3
Maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pachchilaipalli 4503 Kilinochchi
Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509 1    4
Punakari 4512
 
Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Koralepattu North 5103
Koralepattu West 
 (Oddamawadi) 5106 Batticaloa
Koralepattu 
 (Valaichchenai) 5109 1    5
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District

<!-- page 25 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2083
Eravurpattu 5112
Eravurpattu Town 5115
Manmunei North 5118 Batticaloa
Manmunei West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124 1    5
Manmuneipattu 5127
Manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
Manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu Central 5142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Dehiaththakandiya 5203
Padiyathalawa 5206
Maha Oya 5209
Uhana 5212
Ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216
Samanthurei 5218 Ampara
Kalmuna-Tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225 1    6
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
Addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
Akkaraipattu 5236
Alayadivembu 5239
Damana 5242
Thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
Lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - Muslim 5254
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secr etary's Division District
Padavi Sri pura 5303 Trincomalee
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309 1   7
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Morawewa 5312
Town and Gravets 5315
Thambalagamuwa 5318 Trincomalee
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324 1     7
Muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/ 5333
 Echchalampattuwa
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Giribawa 6103
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
Ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
Mahawa 6124
Polpithigama 6127
Ibbagamuwa 6130 Kurunegala
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136 1      8
Kobeigane 6139
Bingiriya 6142
Bamunakotuwa 6149
Maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
Mallavapitiya 6157
Mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
Udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
Alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara West 6193
Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional    Number and
  Secretary's Division District

<!-- page 26 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2084
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kalpitiya 6203  
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209 
Nawagaththegama 6212
Puttlam 6215
Mundalama 6218 Puttlam
Mahakumbukkadawala 6221
Anamaduwa 6224 1    9
Pallama 6227
Arachchikattuwa 6230
Chilaw 6233
Madampe 6236
Mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
Dankotuwa 6248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padaviya 7103
Kebithigollewa 7106
Medawachchiya 7109
Mahawilachchiya 7112
Nuwaragampalatha  7115
 Central
Rambewa 7118
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121 Anuradhapura
Horoupothana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127 2    0
Mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha  7133
 East
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
Thambuttegama 7145
Thalawa 7148
Thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
Ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Higurakgoda 7203  
Medirigiriya 7206
Lankapura 7209  
Welikanda 7210 Polonnaruwa
Dimbulagala 7212
Thamankaduwa 7215 2    1
Elahera 7218
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mahiyanganaya 8103
Rideemaliyadda 8106
Meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115
Passara 8118 Badulla
Lunugala 8119
Badulla 8121 2    2
Hali Ela 8124
Uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
Bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
Haputhale 8139
Haldummulla 8142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Bibila 8203
Madulla 8206
Medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
Monaragala 8215 Monaragala
Badalkumbura 8218
Buttala 8221 2    3
Wellawaya 8224
Kataragama 8227
Thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233

<!-- page 27 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.07.2018
2085
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Eheliyagoda 9103  
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109  
Rathnapura 9112
Imbulpe 9115
Balangoda 9118 Rathnapura
Opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124 2    4
Elapatha 9127
Ayagama 9130
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Rambukkana 9203
Mawanella 9206
Aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212 Kegalle
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218 2    5
Ruwanwella 9221
Bulathkohupitiya 9224
Yatiyanthota 9227
Dehiovita 9230
Deraniyagala 9233
07–951
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.