

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1034
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1030 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"380 – 2024 wfm%a,a ui 10 jeks nodod – 2024'04'10
No. 2,380  –  WEdNEsday, aPRil 10, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd May 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th april, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1027 - B 082559 - 5,403 (04/2024)
N. B.–  in English version of Part Vi Gazette No. 2378, which was published on 28.03.2024, the registered date of the Name list of 
Veterinary surgeons and Practitioners miss printed as 20.07.2020. it should be corrected as 01.03.2024.
Note :  al Falah Foundation (incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of  28th March, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1028
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
lankan. a ,sri lankan, is a citizen of sri lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1029
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1030
Post - v acant
PubLIC   SER vICE   COmmISSION
ministry of Agriculture and Plantation Industries
REcRUitMENt  to  tHE   Post  oF   VEtERiNaR y  sURGEoN   -  GRadE   iii  oF   sRi  laNka  aNiMal 
PRodUctioN   aNd  HEaltH   sERVicE   -  2024
oN the direction of the Public service commission, applications are called from graduates of Veterinary Medicine to select 
qualified persons for 148 posts of Veterinary Surgeon Grade III of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service, 
Applications prepared as per the specimen form given at the end of this notification should be sent by registered post to the 
director General, department of animal Production and Health, P.o. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya to reach on or before 
the under mentioned date. the "Post of Veterinary surgeon Grade iii of sri lanka animal Production and Health service" 
should be clearly state at the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(a) closing date of receiving applications - 10.05.2024
(i) Note - any complaint regarding the loss or delay of an application or a related letter in the 
post will not be considered. losses arising by dealing the applications till the last date for 
applications should be borne by the applicants. Applications made by those not fulfilling the 
basic qualifications will be rejected.
1. Method of recruitment to the service :
i. Recruitment to the existing vacancies of the post of Veterinary surgeon will be made based on the merit 
list published by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Peradeniya. the applicants with 
qualification in veterinary medicine from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission 
will be considered as per the entry in the merit list given according to the order registered in the sri lanka 
Veterinary council.
ii. a  number equal to one Hundred and t en percent (110%) of the number of vacancies will be called for an 
interview and a number equal to the number of vacancies will be recruited according to the order in the merit 
list. No marks will be given for the interview.
iii. The number to be appointed and the effective date of such appointment will be decided based on the order 
by the Public service commission.
2. conditions of engagement in service :
i. this post is permanent. it includes a pension scheme. you should abide the policy decision of the government 
which will be taken in the future regarding the pension scheme entitled for your appointment. Further, you 
should contribute for W & oP pension scheme and pay the contribution as per the decisions taken by the 
government from time to time.
ii. The selected candidates will be appointed to fill vacancy in the post of veterinary surgeon in the Sri Lanka 
animal Production and Health service.
iii. It is required that you obtain in relevant level of proficiency specified as per the Public Administration 
Circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and the other circulars incidental to it. An officer selected to serve 
with qualifications in a language other than an Official Language is required to obtained the proficiency in 
an Official Language at level III before he is made permanent in the post.
iv. This appointment is subject to the terms and conditions of the service minute of Sri Lanka Animal Production 
and Health service published in the Government Gazette dated 13.12.2013 and to the amended orders made 
to it from time to time, to the procedural Rules of the Public service commission, to the Establishment code 
of the democratic socialist Republic of sri lanka, to the Financial regulations of the government and to 
other departmental regulations.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1031
3. salary scale  :
as per schedule 01 of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale 
applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615 - 10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 -(sl-1-2016). the payment of 
salary will be made according to the regulations mentioned in schedule ii of the above circular.
4. Educational Qualifications - A degree in Veterinary Science obtained from a University recognized by the University 
Grants commission.
5. age limit - should not be below 21 years and above the maximum age limit of 35 years on the closing date of 
applications.
6. Physical Qualifications - 
i. ability to serve in any part of sri lanka by every candidate, and
ii. Possession of adequate physical and mental fitness to perform duties in the post, and the sound state of the 
physical health should be certified by a medical report.
7. Other Qualifications - 
i. The applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka;
ii. The applicants should be excellent character;
iii. the applicants must have registered in the Veterinary council of sri lanka under the Veterinary surgeons 
and Practitioners Act and fulfillment of all the required qualification for recruitment to the post by the 
closing date for applications.
8. the interview - 
 General Interview; (no marks will be given) 
 Objective : To check the fulfillment of the requirement of the notification published as per the Scheme of Recruitment 
and the assessment of the physical fitness.
9. Method of application :
i. the application should be made fusing both sides of a 22-29 cm a 4 size paper, as per the format given in 
the specimen application form.
ii. The originals of the following certificates should be presented once informed for the interview.
(a) Birth Certificate; 
(b) Degree certificate and other relevant certificates;
(c) Two character certificates obtained recently (one of which should be from the Grama Niladhari 
of the area and certified by the Divisional Secretary);
(d) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in Sinhala/ Tamil and English languages;
(e) Certificate of Registration as a Veterinary Surgeon in the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council.
10. other Provisions :
i. the Public service commission reserves the authority to take decisions on matters not set out in this 
Gazette Notification.
ii. The Public Service Commission reserves the right of making the final decision on the filling/not filling the 
vacancies or filling only a part of the vacancies.
iii. the sinhala version will prevail in case of any inconsistency between the sinhala, tamil and English 
versions of this Gazette notification.
iv. The candidature of any candidate will be cancelled if it is revealed to have no qualifications.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1032
v.  if it is revealed that the candidate has given false information, or that he/she has concealed any information 
intentionally he/she will be dismissed form the service.
By order of the Public service commision.
secretary,
Ministry of agriculture and Plantation industry.
specimen Form of application
APPLICATION  fOR  RECRuITmENT  fOR  ThE  v ACANCIES  IN  ThE  POST  Of vETERINAR y 
SuRGEON  GRADE  III Of ThE  SRI  LANkA  ANImAL  PRODuCTION  AND  hEALTh SER vICE .
(for office use  only)
01. i. Name with initials -
          in sinhala : ………………………………………………………………………………………………
          in English (in Block letters)
ii. Names denoted by the initials (in English block letters)
02.  National identity card No.   
03. Postal address : ……………………………………………………………….
 ……………………………………………………………….
 (any change in the address should be informed without delay)
04. i. Provincial council  : ……………………………………
 ii. district  : ……………………………………
of the permanent residence
05. telephone No. : Fixed 
   Mobile 
06. date of Birth : y ear ………… Month ……… date …………
 age as at the closing date of applications : y ears : ……… Months : ………… days : ……………
07. a) Whether you are a sri lankan : ……………………………………………
 b) Ethnicity (sinhala/ sri lanka tamil/ indian tamil/ Muslim/ other) ………………………
08. a) Gender : ………………………
b) Whether married/ single or widowed: ……………………

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1033
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree/ Post Graduate 
Degree obtained
Class university Date of completion of 
the degree
1.
2.
3.
10. Number and date of registration at the sri lanka Veterinary council : ………………
11. Particulars of service : (if holding a permanent post at present)
 
Present Period of Service Service station ; Department/ Provincial 
Councilfrom to
1.
2.
3.
12. i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that i 
will be disqualified if any particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection and I will 
be subject to dismissal from the service without any compensation if detected after the appointment. I also certify 
signing below that I have not been convicted of any criminal offence by any court of law. 
    ………………………………………,
    signature of the applicant.
    
 date : …………………
(Applicable only to the applicants holding a permanent post in the Government)
1. Certificate of the Head of the Department/ Establishment
I certify that the above applicant Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ………………………………… is an officer of this Department/ Provincial 
council holding a post of …………………… and that the particulars mentioned in the application are correct according 
to his/her personal file. I also inform that he/she can/cannot be released from this Department/ from the Provincial Public 
Service if this officer is selected to this post.
    ………………………………………,
    Head of the department/ Establishment,
    (Official stamp).
date : …………………
address : ……………………………
04-171

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1034
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
mINISTR y  Of  PubLIC   ADmINISTRATION ,  hOmE  Aff AIRS ,  PROvINCIAL   COuNCILS    
AND  LOCAL   GOvERNmENT
First, Second and Third Efficiency Bar Examinations prescribed for  
the Development Officers’ Service - 2024
1.0 It is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service, 
the Second Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service and the Third Efficiency 
Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 2024 (paragraph 10 of the service minute) 
will be held at the district level in June 2024 by the director General of the sri lanka institute of development 
Administration, under the supervision of the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils 
and local Government.
2.0 These examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the Minute of the Development Officers’ Service No. 
1774/31 dated 07.09.2012.
3.0 The Efficiency Bar Examinations, which are due to be held in respect of each Grade of the above-mentioned service, 
shall be as follows:
Serial 
number Name of the examination Code
01. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 
2024 (For officers in Grade III of the Development Officers’ Service) CSDOS - I
02. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 
2024 (For officers in Grade II of the Development Officers’ Service) CSDOS - II
03. 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 
2024 (For officers in Grade I of the Development Officers’ Service) CSDOS - III
4.0 the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of the sri lanka institute 
of Development Administration with regard to this examination. Candidates shall be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the disciplinary authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
5.0 applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk , the official website of the Sri 
Lanka Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of the application for the 
examination by entering “EB applications” on the web site’s Home Page or by directly visiting this link:  http://
examinationportal.slida.lk/application.
  The online application should strictly be filled out in English. 
  Filling out applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 15.04.2024 up to 12.00 midnight on 
17.05.2024.
6.0 Examination Fees - The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees. 
However, Rs.250/- should be paid for each subject at subsequent sittings of the examination. 
  the examination fee should be paid by any Boc branch all over the island to be credited to “director General, 
sri lanka institute of development administration,” bearing account number 92563132 of the torrington branch 
of Boc.  the applicant’s name, national identity card number and the code of the relevant examination should be 
mentioned in the bank slip related to the payment made by you, and a photo of it should be uploaded in the relevant 
space of the application. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1035
  if you make the relevant payment online, you should mention your National identity card number and the code of 
the examination relevant to you in the credit details as “description” and upload a photo of it in the relevant space of 
the application.
  (the codes of examinations should be as mentioned in paragraph 03.) 
7.0   When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active e-mail address and mobile 
phone number. once the application is submitted online, a message of acknowledgment of receipt will be sent to the 
email address and mobile number.  
after the deadline for sending applications, the admission card will be sent to the email address you provided.  
It should be noted that the admission cards will be sent to the applicant only via email. 
8.0  if any technical issue arises regarding the process of submitting the application online, please contact the technical 
division of the sri lanka institute of development administration at 011-5980236 or 071-9204320 for inquiries, and 
for all other inquiries, please contact the Recruitment and Examinations branch of the combined services division 
of the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government at 011-2681237 
(Extension - 606/605/600) from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. on weekdays from 15.04.2024 to 17.05.2024.
9.0  Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for the 
examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number 011- 
5980236. candidates shall not be paid travelling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10.0  identity of candidates - candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to 
the supervisor.
 i. the National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid sri lankan driving license
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of sri lanka institute of development administration. 
11.0  the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English media. candidates should sit the examination in the 
language medium in which they sat the examination for recruitment to the relevant service or in one of the official 
languages. The officers who joined the service without sitting for a competitive examination can also sit for this 
examination in the language medium of their education or in one of the official languages. Candidates shall not be 
allowed to change the language medium of examination mentioned in the application form.   
12.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. 
13.0  the results of the examination will be issued by the director General of the sri lanka institute of development 
administration to the director General of combined services who will then publish them on the web site of the 
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government. Recommendations on 
confirmations and promotions of officers should be made by the heads of departments based on those results.
14.0  Scheme of examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1036
14.1 First Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 2024 
14.1.1 Qualifications - Only the development officers belonging to the Combined Service can apply for this 
examination. The officers who have received an appointment to Grade III of the Development Officers’ Service, 
the officers who have been absorbed into the Development Officers’ Service and those who have not been absorbed 
into the Development Officers’ Service but have exercised their option to be absorbed into the service are eligible to 
appear for this examination.
14.1.2 syllabus 
 Subject Subject No. marks Duration Cutoff marks
Office Systems 01 100 01 hour 40%
accounting systems 02 100 01 hour 40%
computer test                              03 100 02 hours 40%
                
	Office Systems
This paper shall be designed to test the candidate’s basic knowledge on office systems adopted in 
government offices and practical use of that knowledge, proper understanding of official documents and 
the ability of presenting the ideas/observations in clear and brief minutes and the ability of drafting a letter 
according to an order given to the officer.
(this paper shall consist of structured and semi-structured questions. all the questions should be answered.)
	accounting systems
It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in basic accounts adopted in government office, functions of 
cash control books. 
(this paper shall consist of structured and semi-structured questions. all the questions should be answered.)
	computer test    
(i)  Basic concepts of information technology
(ii)  Windows operating system
(iii)  File Management
(iv)   Word Processing
          Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing texts, aligning text, fonts and attributes, indenting 
paragraphs, paragraphs, change of line spacing, Tab setting, finding and replacing text, spelling and 
grammar, thesaurus, working with columns, page setup, printing documents, creating tables, sorting 
texts, file management, mail merging, working with macros.
(v)  spreadsheets
Basic skills, formatting, editing, columns and ranges, insertion and deletion, sorting data, creating 
charts, printing, @ function, working with macros, file management
 (vi)  database
   Basic skills of introduction
   creating and using a database
   Forms
   linked forms, popup forms
   dialog and message boxes
   Queries
   sorting

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1037
   obtaining reports
   Working with macro
 
(vii) Presentation/ illustration
                           Basic skills, editing, formatting 
                          applying designs
                           inserting images, clip art and graphs
                           slide transition and effects, animations, using presentation tools,
                           Preparing masters
                           printing slides and notes
(viii) internet
   introduction to internet, World Wide Web,
                            How to Navigate, internet Practical
(ix) E-mail
introduction, basic skills, receiving e-mails, sending e- mails,
replying, using attachments, creating and using nick names, composing messages
 (this paper shall consist of multiple-choice, structured and semi-structured questions. all the 
questions should be answered.)
14.2 Second Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 2024 
14.2.1 Qualifications - The following officers who have been confirmed in the service after completing the first 
efficiency bar examination with 10 years of active and satisfactory service period are eligible to sit for this 
examination.
i. Officers who have been absorbed into the Development Officers’ service of the Combined 
service
ii. Officers who have not been absorbed into the Development Officers’ service of the Combined 
service but exercised their option for absorption.
Note – The officers who have satisfied all the qualifications mentioned in paragraph 14.2.1 above but have not yet been 
promoted to Grade ii due to administrative matters.  
14.2.2 syllabus 
Subject Subject No. marks Duration Cutoff marks
Establishments code and Procedural 
Rules 04 100 02 hours 40%
Financial Regulations and Procurement 
Procedure of the Government 05 100 02 hours 40%
                                                                                                
(Part i of the above question papers shall consist of structured questions. all the questions should be answered.  
Part ii shall consist of 08 essay type questions. only 04 questions should be answered.)
	Establishments code and Procedural Rules
 chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XVii, XXiV , XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXiii, 
Xl Vii, Xl Viii of the Establishments code and Procedural Rules of the Public service commission
	Financial Regulations and Procurement Procedure of the Government
chapters i, ii, iii, iV , V and procurement procedure of the government

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1038
14.3 Third Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Development Officers’ Service - 2024
14.3.1 Qualifications 
	The following officers who have completed the second efficiency bar examination with 20 years of active 
and satisfactory service period are eligible to sit for this examination.
i. Officers who have been absorbed into the Development Officers’ service of the Combined Service
ii. Officers who have not been absorbed into the Development Officers’ service of the Combined 
service but exercised their option for absorption.
	The following officers who have been promoted to Grade II of the previous service under exceptional 
performance before 01.08.2011 are also eligible to sit this examination.
i. Officers who have been absorbed into the Development Officers’ service of the Combined Service
ii. Officers who have not been absorbed into the Development Officers’ service of the Combined 
service but exercised their option for absorption.
14.3.2 syllabus
Subject Subject No. marks Duration Cutoff marks
Project Management 06 100 03 hours 40%
	Project management 
i. Defining a project
ii. Project Management
iii. Project cycle
iv. Preparation and analysis of a project
v. Project evaluation
∗	 Payback period
∗	 Net present value
∗	 internal rate of return
∗	 Cost Benefit Ratio
∗	 annual a verage Return Ratio
vi. Project organization
vii. adopting shadow price 
15.0 Decision of the Director General of Combined Services shall be the final decision with regard to the provisions not 
mentioned in this notification.
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.
 S. Alokabandara,
 director General of combined services,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
 Provincial councils and local Government. 
 
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial, 
councils and local Government,  
independence square,
colombo 07,
5
th  of april 2024.
04-243

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'04'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.04.2024
1039
Th E  Ch IT hThA  ADv ANCED   PSy ChOLOGICAL   STuDIES  
OPEN   INSTIT uTE   Of  SRI   LANkA 
( a rrangements have been made to incorporate under the Parliament a ct, Bill No. 105 of 2022)
GENERAL   CERTI fICATE   IN  APPLIED   PSy ChOLOG y  -  2024  ( mAIN   INTAkE)
aPP licatio N s are invited from those who are aspiring to pursue the General Certificate Course in Applied Psychology at 
the Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka. Those who have fulfill the following qualifications 
can apply to success the first step of becoming Certified Professional Psychological Counsellor through this course or who 
are interested to pursue their higher studies in Psychology.
Qualification :
G.
c .E. (a / l ) 3 s  pass grades in any stream and,
18 years of age on 02/04/2024, of good character and in good health.
Nature of c ourse : o nline ( o pen and d istance l earning)
Medium : English or s inhala
Course Duration :
a  s ix month part time course. l ecture recordings and additional readings links are will be provided meanwhile the 
lectures which can be viewed at convenient times.
Course fees and Student Registration fees : t he total course fee is Rs. 12,900.00. While registering for the course, the 
student registration fee of 900.00 must be paid. Rs. 12,000.00 can be paid at once or Rs. 2,000.00 payable in six monthly 
instalments.
how to apply for the Course:
By the applicants should send their,
1. National i dentity c ard Photo/ Passport photo (front and rear sides)
2. G. c .E. (a / l ) examination results sheet's photograph,
3. s elf coloured clear photograph (for processing online student id  card),
070-419 1660 (Whats a pp)
The last date for enrolling students for the course is : 10/05/2024.
for more information : Can inquire through the phone number 032-3137500 at Office hours from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.
Register - d epartment of Psychology,
t he c hiththa a dvanced Psychological s tudies o pen i nstitute
of s ri l anka.
04-158
PR i N t E d  at  t HE   dEP a R t MEN t  o F   Go VERNMEN t  P R i N ti NG ,  sR i  l a N ka.