

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
611
611
wxl 1"911 - 2015 wfm%a,a ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'04'17
No. 1,911 – FRIDAY , APRIL 17, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 614
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 623
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th May, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th April,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—   Twenty Fourth Amendment to the Constitution Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27th, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
612
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
613
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
614
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
21st March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Matale Galewela Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandapalla Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Matale North Matale.
(Kandiyan/General) Division
Matale Rathtota Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Pallesiyapattu Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Matale East Matale.
(Kandiyan/General) Division
Matale Naula Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Wagapanaha Udasiya Division and Post General, District Secretariat,
of Marriage Registrar of Matale North Matale.
(General) Division
04–651
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
615
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
31st March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Lunugala Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Oyapalatha East Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Viyaluwa Division Badulla.
(Kandyan/General)
Badulla Passara Post of Births and Deaths Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Passara Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Badulla.
Badulla Passara Post of Additional Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Yatikinda Division General, District Secretariat,
Badulla.
Badulla Uwaparanagama Post of Additional Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Udukinda Uduhawara and Paranagama General, District Secretariat,
Division Badulla.
04–585

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
616
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
31st March, 2015.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara W eligama Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Mirissa Division and Post of Marriage General, District Secretariat,
Registrar of Weligam Korale Matara.
(General) Division
Matara Kamburupitiya Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Mapalana Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Gangabadapattu Matara.
(General) Division
Matara Kamburupitiya Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Karagoda Uyangoda Division and Post General, District Secretariat,
of Marriage Registrar of Gangabadapattu Matara.
(General) Division
04–587

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
617
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KURUNEGALA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 25th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
31st March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Pannala Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Elabodagama Area in Katugampala G eneral, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala.
04–581
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
618
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
01st April, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Anuradhapura Horowpothana Post of Additional Registrar of Muslim District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages in Hurulu Palatha Division General, District Secretariat,
of Ihala Angunachchiya Area Anuradhapura.
Anuradhapura Palagala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kalagam Palatha Division of General, Dist rict Secretariat,
Katukeliyawa Area Anuradhapura.
Anuradhapura Medawachchiya Post of Additional Registrar of Muslim District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages in Medawachchiya Divisional General, District Secretariat,
Secretariat Area Anuradhapura.
04–583
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
619
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
March, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called App lications must be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Maradana of Kalutara and Panadura General, District Secretariat,
Thotamuna Division Kalutara.
04–584
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
POLONNARUWA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
31st March, 2015.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
620
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Polonnaruwa Thamankaduwa Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kaduruwela Area, Thamankaduwa General, District Secretariat,
Palata Polonnaruwa.
04–586
––––––––––––––––––––––
ATTORNEY  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Recruitment to the Post of State Counsel (Law Officers' Category) of the Attorney General's Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned below to fill thirty (30) vacanci es for
the Post of State Counsel of the Attorney General's Department.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the Gazette Notification are subjected to
the first structured interview conducted by an Interview Board consisting of Senior Officers of the Attorney General's Departme nt,
approved by the Public Service Commission and twice the number of vacancies existing will be called for the final structured in terview
from those who obtained 50 marks or above. Candidates will be recruited on the basis of merit of the final structured interview depending
on the number of vacancies. (The structured interview will be held in accordance with marking scheme indicated under No. 05 approved
by the Public Service Commission).
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational/Vocational Qualifications. – Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Physical Qualifications. – Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the post in any part
of Sri Lanka.
(iii) Other :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
* Should be of excellent character ;
* Should not have been convicted for any criminal charge under the Laws of Sri Lanka ;
* Should be qualified in all respects for the recruitment to this Post as at the closing date of applications.
(iv) Age limit.– Candidates should not be less than 22 years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of applications.
03. Conditions of employment and conditions of Service  :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions have to be paid to the Widows' and Orphans' Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme ;
(ii) Appointment is subjected to a Probationary period of three (03) years ;
(iii) In terms of the Public Administration Circulars 01/2014 and the Circulars incidental thereof, relevant proficiency in
the official language should be obtained within the prescribed period and those who join the Public Service in a
language medium which is not an official language, should be obtained the required official language proficiency within
the probationary period ;
(iv) This appointment should be subjected to the procedural ruels of Public Service Commission, the Establishment Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and to the other Departmental
Regulations.
04. Salary Scale.– The monthly salary scale entitled to this post is, Rs. 28,095 - 5x645 - 5x790 - 15x1,050 - Rs. 51,020. (No SL-
5-2006 Salary Code of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006).

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
621
05. The structured interview will be conducted based on the following marking scheme :
Fact Ma ximum Description Marks
Marks
Educational Qualifications 20 marks (i) Master of Laws (LLM) Degree of a recognized 10 marks
university.
(ii) Post Graduate Diploma in Law in relevant field of 08 marks
a recognized university of Sri Lanka Law College.
(iii) Bachelor's Degree in Laws (LLB) of a recognized 07 marks
university (1st Class Pass)
(iv) Bachelor's Degree in Laws (LLB) of a recognized 06 marks
university (2nd Class Upper Division Pass)
(v) Bachelor's Degree in Laws (LLB) of a recognized 05 marks
university (2nd Class Lower Division Pass)
(vi) First Class Honours pass at the final examination 08 marks
of Sri Laka Law College
(vii) Second Class Honours pass at the final examination 05 marks
of Sri Lanka Law College
A recognized university means a university or an
Institution recognized by Incorporate Council of Legal
Education.
(All the aforesaid qualifications are subject to maximum
20 marks)
* The aforesaid educational qualifications should be
proved by certificates.
Professional Experience 20 marks (i) Handling of cases in coursts 10 marks
as an Attorney-at-Law (02 marks for each year)
(ii) Skills demonstrated as an Attorney-at-Law of State or 10 marks
recognized legal institution in handling cases in courts.
(Certificates should be produced for the aforesaid skills)
Note.– A certificate obtained from a judge on professional
competence and two character certificates obtained
from two Attorneys-at-law, who have completed
not less than 20 years of practice, should be
forwarded, character certificates issued by legal
officers of Attorney General's Department will not
be entertained.
Special Competencies 50 marks (i) Communication skills 12.5 marks
(ii) Impromptu speech skills 12.5 marks
(iii) Skill of successful appearance before the council 12.5 marks
(iv) Good command of language 12.5 marks
Skills demonstrated at the 10 marks (i) Personality 05 marks
interview (ii) Lea dership qualities 05 marks

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
622
Final Structured Interview :
Main areas for which marks will be allocated after checking Maximum marks
(i) Logical skill 25 m arks
(ii) Ability to present facts 25 marks
(iii) Ability to respond to questions 25 marks
(iv) Knowledge of fundamental legal theories 25 marks
Total 100 marks
06. Identity of Candidate.– Candidates who have forwarded completed applications in every aspect will only be called for the
structured interview.
The originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be submitted at the interview.
Following identification papers will be accepted at the interview to establish the identity of candidates.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner General of Registration of Persons,
(b) Valid passport.
07. Method of Application :
(i) Applications may be obtained from the administration Branch of the Attorney General's Department, Colombo 12
and should be sent by Register cover to the address of Attorney General, Attorney General's Department, P. O. Box
502, Colombo 12, to be received on or before 11.05.2015. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
(ii) The top left hand corner of the envelope should carry the words "Application for the Post of State Counsel".
08. Furnishing false particulars.– If any of particulars mentioned in the application, sent by you, found to be false or erroneous
before the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. If such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment you will be dismissed
from the service subject to the relevant actions.
09. The Public Service Commission reserves the right either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post.
10. In case of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English text, Sinhala text shall prevail.
By the order of Public Service Commission,
Attorney General.
Supreme Court Complex,
Attorney General's Department,
Colombo 12,
On this 31st day of March, 2015.
04–652
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA  ELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
623
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May , 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya W alapane Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Walapane Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Medapalatha Nuwara Eliya.
Division
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Kotmale Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Udapane Nuwara Eliya.
Division
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Kotmale Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Thispane Nuwara Eliya.
Division
04–582
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Recruitment of Graduate Trainess recruited under
"Planning Programes for Efficiently Implimenting Budget
Proposals" as per the Cabinet Decision No. 11/2260/504/
179-I dated 07.12.2011 to Grade 3-1 (a) of Sri Lanka
Teachers’ Service
APPLICATIONS are herewith invited from the graduates been
appointed as trainees under "Planning Programmes for Efficiently
Implimenting Budget proposals"as per the cabinet decision No. 11/
2260/504/179-I dated 07.12.2011 and undergoing the relevant
training atpresent or have been appointed to the post of
Development Assistants after training under the said programme
and who wish to enter into Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service as Teachers
of Science,Mathematics,Commerce,English Language and
Information Technology.(The relevant list of vacancies and codes
are appeared in the documents 1 and 2)
1. Eligibility :-
1.1 Genaral Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should have a good character and physically fit and
mentally sound
(iii) Should be able to work in any part of Sri Lanka
(iv) Should be not less than 18 years and not over than
45 years of age at 04.05.2015

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
624
V . As per the cabinet decision for the cabinet
memorandum "Programes for Efficiently
Implementing  Budget Proposals" No. 11/2260/504/
179 – I dated 07 -12-2011,the applicant should be a
trainee graduate recruited as a Graduate Trainees or
a Development Officer appointed permanently
under the same.
1.2 Educational Qualifications :
I. Should have to possess a degree from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission as
per Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service Minute and it is
compulsory to have studied the subject which is applied
as a main subject of the degree
and
II. Should have passed either Sinhala or Tamil language as
a subject at the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) examination
and
III. should have passed the G.C.E (Advanced Level)
examination with the minimum eligibility to enter
University.
02. Method of Recruitment and Conditions of Service :
2.1 At the selection,priority will be given to graduate trainees
already undergoing the training after been recruited as
trainees under the cabinet decision "Planning Programmes
for Efficiently Implementing Budget Proposals" No.  11/
2260/504/179 – I dated 07.12.2011.For the remaining
number of vacancies will be filled with Development
Assistants who got permanent appointment after that.
2.2 A competitive examination will be held by the
Commissioner General of Examinations to select the
eligible individuals as prescribed by the authorized officer
of appointments for candidates who have satisfied the
qualifications with regard to 1.1 and 1.2 of this
notification.Applicant will be subject to a general
interview and a practical test conducted by a board of
interviewers appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry
of Education to select eligible candidates on the priority
basis of marks obtained at the said examination.
Accordilngly,priority will be given to select the eligible
candidates to be appointed for the existing teacher
vacancies subject to the school based methodology
prioritizing as per the total marks they have obtained
(the candidates should conduct a presentation in not less
then 05 minutes at the time of the practical test under a
topic identified with reference to the subject to which the
applicant intend to obtain the appointment)
2.3 Marks will be given under the following critere a at the
practical test.
Practical Examination Criteria
1. Objective and Access 05 Marks
2. Personality and V oice Control 05 Marks
3. Clearance of Communication 05 Marks
4. Time Management 05 Marks
5. Usage of Presentation Mathodologies 05 Marks
2.4 Recruitments will only be made for the schools appeared
in schedule 2 where teacher vacancies exist and the
applicants who would like to serve in those schools should
nominate schools as per their preferance priority.Please
note that only three schools can be nominated to the
maximum by one candidate.
Note.– When number applicants exceed the number of
vacancies existing in the school for the applied subject
priority should be given as per the marks obtained at
the competitive examination and the structured
interview. When several candidetes applied for the
same school have scored equal marks, priority will be
given to the candidates considering the distance to the
said school. Appointments will be given to those who
become eligible as per the said criteria.
2.5 The selected candidates will be appointed to grade 3-1(a)
of Sri Lanka Teachers Service subject to general conditions
that control government appointments as well as
conditions imposed by Sri Lanka Teachers Service Minute
and the revisions made thereto in the future. Monthly
salary scale prescribed for this post is as per the Public
Administration circular no:6/2006(x11) dated 02.12.2014
and the method for salary for this post is Rs.13,410-
145x6-180x7-215x2-Rs 15,970/- under salary segment
G-E-1-2006. You will be initiated in the monthly salary
of Rs.15,540 which is the 14th step of this salary scale.
2.6 This post is permanent and pensionable.
2.7 Promotions will be made as per the provisions appeared
in Sri Lanka Teachers’Service Minuite.
2.8 These appointments are subject to provisions appeared
in the transfer procedure of Sri Lanka Teachers’Service
and no consideration will be made with regard to transfers
until 05 years of service since appointments will be based
on schools and those who are appointed will be subject
to an agreement.
3. Method of Application :
3.1 Application should be similar to the speciman application
in this notification and preparing it using both sides of a
A4 sheet, the applicant himself should fill the same.
3.2 Accurately completed applications should reach
"Commissioner General of Examination, Organisation and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations,Pelawatta, Battaramulla" on or before

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
625
04.05.2015 by registered post. It is compulsory to indicate
"Appointment of Graduate Trainees to Grade 3-I (a) of
Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service" on the top left hand corner
of the envelope containing the application.
3.3 The school which is applied for and the priority of
preferances will not be changed any how and no appeal
with regard to that will be considered. In addition, one
candidate can only forward one application.
3.4 Incompleted applications will be rejected. No
consideration will be made later with regard to any
complain received relevant to misplace of an application
in post or delayed receipt.
3.5 You will not be informed of the receipt of application.
The Department of Examination of Sri Lanka may publish
a newspaper notification when the admissions are issued.
If admissions  didn’t reach even after 2,3 or more days
after the notification, the department of examinations of
Sri Lanka should be notified as appeared in the
notifications. It would be much fruitful to inform the
Department of Examination of Sri Lanka by keeping
yourself a copy of your request letter containing the
certified copy of the application kept with you and paid
voucher, along with the registered slip and if you are
distant from Colombo, a fax number to sent the admission.
04. Admission of the examination :-
4.1 Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admissions to all candidates whose applications are
received. A candidate appearing for the examination should
submit his/her admission to the supervisor of the
examination centre. No permission will be given to any
candidate who fail to submit such.
4.2 A candidate should sit in the examination hall arranged for
him, for the examination. Every candidate should get the
admission certified and hand it over to the superviser at
the examination hall at the first day of the examination. A
cluster of laws to be adhered by every candidate is
published in this Gazette notification. The candidates are
subject to rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissiomer General of Examination with regard to
conducting the examination. He/She should be subject to
a penalty imposed by Commissiomer General of
Examination if such laws and regulations are breached.
Note :- Issuance of an admission to a candidate is not
considered as an acceptance of the elegibility to sit for
the examination.
5.  Identity of candidates .– A candidate should prove his/her
identity to the satisfaction of the superviser of the examination
hall, with regard to each subject he/she appear. Any of the following
documents will be accepted in this regard.
(a) National identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
6. Penalty for supplying false information :
 6.1 If a candidate revealed to have no qulifications before the
examination or during the period of examination or after
the examination at any occasion, he/she is subject to
cancellation of his/her candidature. If any particular fact
finished by a candidate reveals to be false or he/she has
hidden some important fact, he/she is liable to be dismissed
from service. Issuance of and admission to a candidate is
not considered that he/she has been eligible to appear the
examination.
7. Method and medium of examination :-
7.1 This examination is conducted is Sinhala, Tamil and
English media in Colombo. (Number of Examination
centers will be decided according to the number of
applicants)
8.Syllabus .– There are two examination papers for this
examination. It is compulsory for all the candidates to sit for both
these question papers.
01. Aptitude Test -  Time – 01 hour (100 marks)
This test paper is prepared aiming at measuring skills for teaching
profession and logical thought in the candidate. This is consisted of
50 multipal choice and short answer type questions. All these
questions should be answered in short.
02. General Knowledge  - Time – 01 hour (100 marks)
It is consisted of questions related to general knowledge of
Teaching sector and / or educational trends occurred and occurring
at local sphere and multipal choice and short answer type questions
to test general knowledge on educational reforms.
9.  Examination Fees.– The examination fee is 500. The voucher
obtained to the name of the candidate by paying the said examination
fee to any district / divisional Secretariat in the island, so that it
would be credited to the income head of 2003.02.13 of Commissioner
General of Examination should be pasted where applicable and
indicate its number. Keeping a photocopy of the voucher would be
needful.
10.  The right to decide of any particular matter which does not
cover by this notification and the right to take the final decision to

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
626
fill or not to fill all or part of the vacancies lies with the Secretary
to the Ministry of Education.
UPALI MARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla,
On the 17th day of April 2015.
SPECIMAN APPLICA TION
For Office Use
M
INISTRY OF EDUCATION
RECRUITMENT OF GRADUATE TRAINEES TO GRADE 3 – 1 (a) OF
SRI LANKA TEACHERS SERVICE WHO WERE RECRUITED UNDER "PLANNING
PROGRAMMES FOR EFFICIENTLY IMPLEMENTING BUDGET PROPOSALS"AS PER
THE CABINET DECISION  NO: 11 / 2260 / 504 / 179 - I
Tick (3) the relevant cage
Under training period
Appointed as Development Assistant
Tick (3) the medium of Language in which the candidate sits the
exam
Sinhala
Tamil
English
Numbers given to the subject applied and serial number given to
the school as well as the priority of the preference can be indicated
herewith according to schedule 1 and 2.
01.
1.1
Preference Subject Serial Serial No. Name of
Priority No. as per given to the the school
Schedule school
No. 1
1
2
3
Name with initials placing initials at the end (Block Letters)
(Eg: PERERA  A.B) :–––––––––––––.
1.2 Name denoted by the initials (Block Letters) :––––––––.
02. Present Address (In Block Letters) :–––––––––––––.
(Calling letters will be posted to this address)
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female – 1, Male – 0
(Write relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Marital Status :
Unmarried – 1 Married – 2
(Write relevant number in the cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :     Month :     Date :
3.4 Age as at 04.05.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.5 National Identity Card No:
3.6 Telephone No. :
Mobile :–––––––––––––.
Official :–––––––––––––.
Residential :–––––––––––––.
3.7 E – mail address :–––––––––––––.
04.1 Details of Educational Qualifications :
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
Year -
Index No: -
1 ........................... 5 ...........................
2 ........................... 6  ...........................
3 ........................... 7 ...........................
4  ........................... 8  ...........................
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination
Year -
Index No: -
1 ........................... 2 ...........................
3 ........................... 4  ...........................

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
627
05. Details on Higher Education Qualifications.
5.1. Degree :–––––––––––––.
5.2. University of Issue :–––––––––––––.
5.3. V alid Date of the Degree :–––––––––––––.
5.4. Main subjects studied for the degree :–––––––––––––.
5.5. Medium of the Degree :–––––––––––––.
Keep a copy of the voucher with you.Paste the voucher well to avoid losing it.
I do declare the particulars furnished by me are true and accurate to my knowledge.If found not eligible after been selected fo r
this post, I know I am subject to be dismissed from post. In addition, I declare that I adhear to the laws and regulations impo sed by the
authority with regard to conducting the structured interview.I would not change any information furnished herewith,lateron.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
06. Cetification of the Head of Department. If the Applicant is a government employer :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................................... is forwarded herewith. This is to inform that he/she i s a permanent/
temporary/casual employee of this Ministry/Department and if selected for the above post he / she can / cannot be released from  the
present service.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department or any other authorized officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
SUB CHART NUMBER 01
Subject Subject Code No. Subject Code No. Subject Code No.
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
Combined Mathematics 1.1 1.2 1.3
Physical Science 2.1 2.2 2.3
Chemistry 3.1 3.2 3.4
Bio science 4.1 4.2 4.3
Agri Science 5.1 5.2 5.3
accounting 6.1 6.2 6.3
Business Studies 7.1 7.2 7.3
Business Statistics 8.1 8.2 8.3
Economics 9.1 9.2 9.3
Information Technology 10.1 10.2 10.3
English - - 11

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
628
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Colombo District
1 Wp/kolonnawa  Girls' school 1 2 3 1
2 Wp/Sri Rajasinghe School- 1 1 1
Kudabuthgamuwa
3 WP/Ananda Shashthralaya 1 1 1 3 2
4 WP/Anula Vidyalaya 11
5 WP/ President College 2
6 WP/Prince of Wales college 1
7 WP/ Piliyandala Central college 1 1 1 1
8 WP/ Princess of Wales College 1
9 WP/ Dharmapala Vidyalaya 1
10 WP/ Bomiriya Central College 1 2 1 1
11 WP/ Seethawaka Central 1 1 2 1
College
12 WP/ Hanwella Rajasinghe 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Central College
13 WP/ Kotahena Central College 1 1 1 1
14 WP/ Hameed- Al Hussainniya 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Vidyalaya
15 WP/ Muslim Ladies College 2 3 1
16 WP/ Devi Balika Vidyalaya 1
17 WP/ Isipathana Vidyalaya 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1
18 WP/ Mahanama Vidyalaya 1 11 1
19 WP/ St.Paul's College 1 1 1 1
20 WP/ Nalanda Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1
21 WP/ Thurstan College 1
22 WP/ Ananda Balika Vidyalaya 1 1 2 2 1 1
23 WP/ Ghothami Balika Vidyalya 1 1 1 1
24 WP/ Lumbini Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1
25 WP/ Hindu College 11 1 1
26 WP/ Vivekananda college 1 1 2 1
27 WP/ Ramanadan Hindu Ladies 11
College
28 WP/ Mahinda Rajapakse 1 1
Vidyalaya
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11
1.1

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
629
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce Eng lish
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics Infor ma- English
Serial Maths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Gampaha District
29 WP/ Sri Dharmaloka Central 1
College
30 WP/ Siyane Central College 1
31 WP/ Nalanda Boys Central 2
College
32 WP/ Galahitiyawa Central 1 1 2
College
33 WP/ St.Antoneys Maha 1 1 1 1 1 1 3
Vidyalaya
34 WP/ Al- Mubharak Central 1 1 2 1 1 1
College
35 WP/ Bandaranayake Vidyalaya 1 1
36 WP/ Gam/Rathnawali Ladies 1 1 2
College
37 WP/Kela/Gurukula Vidyalaya 1
38 WP/ Christ  King College 1 11
39 WP/ Harischandra Vidyalaya 1 1 1
40 WP/ Niwsted Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1
Kalutara District
41 SriPalee V idyalaya 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
42 Sri sumangala Girls College 2 1 1 1 2 1
43 Thakshila Central College 1 1 1 1 1
44 Bulathsinhala Central College 2 1
45 Kalutara Girls School 1 1 1
46 St.Johns Maha Vidyalaya 1
47 Beruwala D.S.Senanayake
Central College
48 Ananda Shasthralaya 1 1 1 1
49 C.W.W.Kannangara Central 1 1
College
50 Muslim Ladies College 1 2 1 1 1
51 Al- Hummaisara Muslim 1 1 1 2
Central College
52 Miriswattha National School 1
53 Aluthgama Maha Vidayalaya 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
630
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Kegalle District
54 St. Joshep Girls College 1 1 1
55 Kegalle Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1
56 Pindeniya Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1
57 Dadly Senanayake Maha 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Vidyalaya
58 Rajasinghe Central College 1 2 1 1 1 3
59 Pinnawala Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1
60 Dehiowita Maha V idyalaya 1 1 1
61 Yatiyanthota Central College 1 1 1 1
62 Mawanella Sahira College 1 1 1 1 1 1
63 Sirisaman Central College 1 1 1 1
64 Rivisanda Central College 1
65 St.Marys  Mahal Vidyalaya 1 1 1
Rathnapura District
66 Seewali National School 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
67 Sumana Girls School 1
68 Furgusan High School 1
69 Ananda Maithri Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
70 Kolonna Central College 1 1 1 1
71 Embilipitiya Presidents College 1 1 1 1
72 Kalawana National School 1 1 1
73 Karavita Paghghananda Central 2 1 1 1
College
74 Convent of Child Jesus 1
75 St.Alosious Central  College 1 1
76 Rahula Central  College 1 1 1 1
77 Jeilani Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
78 Eheliyagoda Central  College 1 1 1 1 1
79 Gankanda Central College 1 2 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
631
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Kandy District
80 Bad-Udeen Mahamud Girls 1 1 1
College
81 Bopitiya Rajasinghe Central 1 1 1 1
College
82 Wimaladarma National School 2 1 1
83 D.B.Wijethunga National 1 1
School
84 Senadikari National School 1 2
85 Ranasinghe Premadasa 1 1 1 1 1
National School
86 S.W.R.D.Bandaranayake 1
National School
87 Galagedara National School 1
88 Sujatha Girls College 1
89 Hatharaliyadda National School 1 1
90 Ankumbura Parakrama Central 1
College
91 Alawathugoda Central College 1 1
92 Sahira V idyalaya 1 1 1 1 1 1
93 Pushpadana Girls College 1
94 Mahamaya Girls College 1
95 Dharmaraja College 1
96 Sri Rahula College 1
97 High Girls College 1 1 1
98 Poojapitiya Central College 1 2
99 Azar Central College 1 21 1
100 Al-Manar Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1
(Galhin)
101 Al-Manar Central College 1 2 1 1 2 1 1
(Handessa)
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
632
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
102 Akurana Zahira Central College 1 1
103 Rajawella Hindu National 1 1 1 1 1
School
104 Pussellawa C.C.Tamil V idyalaya 1 1 1 1 2
105 Madeena National School 1 12
106 Nugawela Central College 2 1
107 Marassana National School 1
108 Wickramabahu Central College 2 1
109 Anuruddha Kumara Vidyalaya 1
Matale District
110 Sri Sangamiththa Girls College 11
111 St.Thomas College 1 1
112 Christchurch National School 1 1 1
113 Rangiri Dambulu National 1 1
School
114 Sri Naga National School 1 2
115 Weera Keppetipola National 1 1
School
116 Zahira National School 1 1 1
117 Aj-Meer Muslim Maha 1 1 1
Vidyalaya
Nuwara-Eliya District
118 Gamini National School 1 1 1 1
119 Sri Sumangala National School 1 1 1 1 1
120 Jayahela National School 1 1 1 1 2 1
121 Gamini   Dissanayake National 11
School
122 Poramadulla National School 1
123 Victoria National School 1 1 1 1 1
124 Al-Minhaj National School 1 1 1 1 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
633
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce Eng lish
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics Infor ma- English
Serial Maths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Kurunegala District
125 Maliyadewa Balika Vidyalaya 1 1
126 Maliyadewa Boys School 1
127 Mawathagama Central College 1 1
128 Sri Nishshanka Central College 1
129 Nakkawaththa National School 1
130 Ibbagamuwa Central College 1
131 Sri sumangala Central College 1 1 1
132 Paduwasnuwara Central College 1 1 1 1 1
133 Bingiriya Central College 1 1 1 1 1
134 Sanda Lankawa Central College 11
135 J.R.Jayawardana Central 1
College
136 Mahasen National School 1 2 1 1 1 1 1
137 U.B.Wanninayake National 1 1 1 2 2 1
School
138 Meegalewa Mahaweli Central 1
College
139 Yaya 03 Perakumpura Central 1 1 1
College
140 Kuliyapitiya Central College 1
141 Ganewatha S.B.Herath Central 1 1 1
College
142 Kekunagolla Muslim Central 1 2 1 1
College
143 Paragahadeniya Muslim Maha 1 2 1 1 1
Vidyalaya
144 Mahawa Wijayabha National 1 1 1 1 1
School
145 Madeena National School 1 1
146 Polpithigama National School 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
634
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Puttalam District
147 Chilaw/Ananda Central College 2 1 2
148 Put/Ananda National School 1 1
149 Senanayake National School 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2
150 Dammissara Central College - 1 1 1 1
Naththandiya
151 Joshep Vas Vidyalaya- 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Wennappuwa
152 Zahira Muslim Central College 2 2 2
153 Al- Aksha Muslim Central 1 1 1
College
Galle District
154 Richmond College 1 1 1
155 St.Alousious College 1 1 1
156 Elpitiya Ananda Central College 1 1 1 1
157 Batemulla Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1
158 Vidyaloka Maha Vidyalaya 1
159 Karandeniya Central College 1 1 1 1
160 Christchurch  Girls College 1 1 1 1 1
161 Christchurch  Boys College 1
162 Thawalama Vidyaraja 1 1 2 1 12
Vidyalaya
163 Nagoda Royal College 1 1 1 2 1
164 Neluwa Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
165 Benthota Gamini Central 2 1
College
166 Wandurabha Central College 1 2 1 1 2
167 Malharus Zulhiya Central 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
College
168 Zahira Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1
169 Meepawala Amarasooriya 11
Central College
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
635
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
170 Labuduwa Siridamma College 1 1
171 Devapathiraja College 1 1 1 1
172 Hikkaduawa Sumangala 1 1 1 1
Vidyalaya
173 Kathaluwa National School 1 1 1 1
174 Dharmashoka National School 2 2 1 1
175 Manavila Upananda Vidyalaya 1 1
176 Vidyaraja National School 1
177 Dewananda Vidyalaya 1
Matara District
178 Weligama Sri Sumangala Girls 1
College
179 Deniyaya Central College 1 1 1 2 1 1
180 Siddhartha Central College 1 1
181 Matara Central College 1
182 Vijitha Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1
183 Thelijjawila Central College 1 2
184 Keerthi Abeywickrama Central 2 1 2 1
College
185 Deiyandara Central College 1 2 1 1 1 1 1
186 Godapitiya Central College 2 1 1 1
187 Mahinda Rajapakse Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1
188 Urubokka Central College 1 1 1 1 1
189 Arfa Central College 1 1 1
190 Al- Minhaj National School 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
191 Karandeniya Central College 1 1 1 1 1
192 Thihagoda Central College
193 Survasious Vidyalaya 2
194 St.Thomas Vidyalaya 1
195 Devinuwara National School 1 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
636
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
Hambanthota District
196 Weeraketiya Rajapaksha 2 5 1 1
Central College
197 Walasmulla National School 1 1 1
198 Getamanna Wijayabha 1 1
National School
199 Ruhunu Wijayabha National 1 1 1 1
School
200 Debarawewa National School 3
201 Sooriyawewa National School 1 12
202 Singapore National School 1 1 1 1
203 Katuwana National School 1 1
204 Zahira National School 1
205 Tangalle National School 1
206 Mahanaga National School 1 1 1 1 1
207 Tangalle Boys National School 1 3
208 St.Marys  National School 1
209 Theraputta National School 2
210 Suchee National School 1 1 1
211 Wijayabha National School 1 1 1
Badulla District
212 Badulla Central College 1 1
213 Wiyaluwa D.S.Senanayake 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
National School
214 Dharmadhutha National School 1
215 Atampitya National School 1 1 1
216 Hali-Ela National School 1 1 1 1 1
217 Kandegedara National School 1 1 2 2
218 Meegahakiula National School 1 1 1 1 2
219 Halpe Central College 1 1
220 Koslanda Central College 1 1 1 1 1
221 Naula Central College 21 1
222 Sri Janananda Central College 1 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
637
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce Eng lish
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics Infor ma- English
Serial Maths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
223 Vishaka Girls College-
Bandarawela
224 St.Joshaps College 11
225 Walhaputhenna Central College 1 1 1 1 1
226 Mahiyangana National School 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 3 1 1 1
227 Welimada Central College 1
228 Lunuwattha National School 1 1 1 1
229 Passara Central College 1 1 1 1
230 Dutugemunu Central College 1
231 Saraswathi Tamil Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1
232 Passara Tamil Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1 2 1
233 Guruthalawa Muslim Central 1 1 1 1 1 2
College
234 Adhaulpotha Central College 1 1 1 1 1
235 Wangiyaumbura Central College 1 1 1
236 Kudakusum Girls College 11
237 Kahagolla Central College 1
Monaragala District
238 Katharagama Presidents 1 1 1 1
Central College
239 Malwatthawala Central College 1 1 1
240 Thanamalwila Central College 1 3 1 1 1
241 Royal College 1 1 1 1
242 Nishshanka Central College 1
243 Mahanama Central College 1 1 1
244 Wellassa National School 1 1 1 1
245 Medagama Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
246 Buttala Dutugemunu National 11
School
Anuradhapuara District
247 Anuradhapura Central College 1
248 Swarnapali  Girls College 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
638
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Combined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial M aths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
249 Eppawala Sri Siddhartha 1 1 2 1 1 1
Central College
250 Kekirawa Central College 1 1 1 1 1 2
251 Maithripala Senanayake 1 1 2
Central College
252 Zahira Muslim Maha Vidyalaya 1 2 1 1 1 1
Pollonnaruwa District
253 Ananda Balika Vidyalaya 11 1
254 Royal Central College 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
255 Minneriya Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 2
256 Medirigiriya Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Ampara District
257 D.S.Senanayake National School 2 1 1
258 Dehiaththakandiya National 1 1 1 2 2 2 1
School
259 Padiyathalawa Central College 1 1 1 1
260 Akkareipaththhu Muslim 1 1 1 1 1 1
Central College
261 Kamel Fathima National School 2
262 Zahira Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1
263 Al-Azrak Central College 1 1 1 1 1
264 Sri Ramakrishna V idyalaya 1 1 1
265 Addalachcena National School 1 1
Trincomalee District
266 Sinhala  Central College 1 1 1
267 Royal Vidyaloka National 1 1 1 1
School
268 Agra Bhodhi National School 1 1 1 1 1
269 R.K.M.Sri Koneshwara Hindu 11
Vidyalaya
270 St.Marys Girls Vidyalaya 1 1 2
271 Kinniya National School 1 1 2 1 1
272 Muthur National School 1 1 1 1 1
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2015
639
Sub Chart Number 2
National School Vacancies
Maths- Science Commerce English
School School Name Com bined Physics Chemistry Biology Agri Accounting Business Business Economics In forma- English
Serial Maths Science Studies Statistics tion Language
Number Technology
273 Sri Shanmuga Hindu Girls 12
School
274 St. Joshap College 11
Batticoloa District
275 St.Michels College 14
276 Shivananda College 1 12
277 Aligar Muslim Central College 2 1 1 1 1 2
278 Winsent  High Girls College 11
279 Kattankudi National School 1 2 1 1 1 1
280 Meera Girls Maha Vidyalaya 1 1
281 Oddamawadi National School 1 1 1 1
282 Paddirippu Central College 1 1 1 1 11
Jaffna District
283 Madukanda Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
284 Sampathnuwara Central College 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
285 Jaffna Hindu Vidyalaya 3
286 Chawakachcheri Hindu college 2 1 1
287 Nelliadi National School 11
288 Muslim Maha Vidyalaya 1 11
289 Tamil Central College 1 1 1
290 Rambeikulam Girls College 11
291 St.Survasious  Boys Central 11
College
292 Siththivinayagar Hindu College 1 2 2 2 1 1
293 St.Survasious Girls Central 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
College
294 Al-Azar Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
295 Muslim Maha V idyalaya 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 1 2
Kilinochchi District
296 Kilinochchi Central College 1 1 11
297 Mulankavil Maha Vidyalaya 1 1 1
298 Vidyananda Vidyalaya 1 1 1 1 1
299 Mallavi Central College 11 1 1
04–705
Sinhala - 1.1
Tamil - 1.2
English - 1.3
Sinhala - 2.1
Tamil - 2.2
English - 2.3
Sinhala - 3.1
Tamil - 3.2
English - 3.3
Sinhala - 4.1
Tamil - 4.2
English - 4.3
Sinhala - 5.1
Tamil - 5.2
English - 5.3
Sinhala - 6.1
Tamil - 6.2
English - 6.3
Sinhala - 7.1
Tamil - 7.2
English - 7.3
Sinhala - 8.1
Tamil - 8.2
English - 8.3
Sinhala - 9.1
Tamil - 9.2
English - 9.3
Sinhala - 10.1
Tamil - 10.2
English - 10.3
English - 11
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.