

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2315$33 – 2023 ckjdß ui 18 jeks nodod – 2023'01'18
No. 2315/33 – WEDNESDAY, JANUARY  18, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG6172 –  16(01/2023)
WESTERN PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notiﬁ cation under Section 154 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255), read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act  No. 12, of 1989
I, Roshan Goonetileke, The Governor of the Western Province, in  terms of the powers vested in me under Section 154 of 
the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 2 o f the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act 
No. 12, of 1989 do here by notify that my approval has been given for the by-laws, described in the Schedule herein under, 
made by the Seethawakapura Urban Council in terms of the Sectio n 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) 
read with Section 157 of the aforesaid Ordinance 
 Rඈඌඁൺඇ Gඈඈඇൾඍංඅൾ඄ൾ,
 RWP And BAR VSV USP PHD FIM (Sri Lanka) ndc psc,
 Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force,
 The Governor,
 Western Province.
 
At Governors' Oﬃ  ce - Western Province,
Provincial Council Oﬃ  ce Complex,
Battaramulla.
On 03rd Day of January, 2023.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 2A
SCHEDULE
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING LAUNDRY AND WASHING PLACES
 
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate and supervise the operat ion of laundry and washing places 
maintained within the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urban Council.
 
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law on the Maintenance of La undry and Washing Places in the 
Seethawakapura  Urban Council. 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chaptes 255, read with the Sub section 157(9) of the said Ordinance. 
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawakapura Urb an Council (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall operate a laundry or a washing center (hereinafter referred to as a premise) 
except under a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
  
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
7. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are fulﬁ lled. 
 (1) If the constructions relevant to the premises are permanen t constructions, all such constructions 
shall be constructions in accordance with the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act 
No. 41 of 1978 or the Housing and Urban Development Ordinance. 
  (2) There shall be separate room facilities for temporary storage of cloths brought for cleaning in the 
premises till cleaning.
 (3) Accepting cloths for cleaning on the premises and returning the cleaned cloths shall not be done 
by one person at the same time.
 (4) When washing, drying and reprocessing of cloths take  place in the same premises,
  (A) Drainage related to the premises shall be maintained in s uch a way that it is easily drained 
and wastewater shall be diverted to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment unit according 
to approved procedures.
  (B) Machines used for washing and drying clothes shall be in good working condition, properly 
ﬁ tted to the ﬂ oor and set up so that the noise generated during operation does not spread to the 
outside.
  (C) The electrical circuit of the premises shall be one which  is ﬁ xed permanently and the plugs 
shall be properly ﬁ tted for the required electrical capacity.
  (D) The water discharged during washing shall be ﬁ  nally disposed of without any outﬂ ow.
Short title
Applying for a 
License
Conditions for a 
license

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 3A
 (E) Windows and openings shall be ﬁ  tted out to allow light and air to enter the premises easily, 
and if not shall be artiﬁ cially lighted and air conditioned.
 (F) Tables and other equipment for ironing work shall be set u p at a suﬃ  cient distance so that 
they can be used properly.
 (G) Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided for the emp loyees working on the premises 
and adequate latrine facilities shall be provided for both males and females.
 (H) There shall be hygienic containers to keep the cleaned clo thes temporarily and they shall 
not contact with the dirty clothes in any way.
 
 (I) There shall be rooms or partitions with doors that can be closed to keep clothes after ironing 
until they are returned.
 (J) The interior of the premises shall be designed to maintain  a proper distance when required.
 (5) When washing clothes outside the premises, a public water source shall not be used for that purpose 
and the applicant shall be certiﬁ ed,
 (A) That washing clothes will be done at a place speciﬁ  ed for that purpose and that the place 
will be conﬁ rmed from time to time;
 (B) That no chemical used in cleaning clothes are released int o any water source after use. 
 
 (6) When washing clothes is done outside the premises, necessa ry facilities shall be provided to 
ensure that dirty clothes are not mixed or contact with cleaned clothes in any way while carrying 
dirty clothes outside the premises to wash and bringing them back after cleaning.
 
 (8) There shall be adequate parking facilities for customers. 
 
 (9) Automatic generators and water storage facilities of suﬃ  cient capacity shall be available to be 
utilized in the event of an emergency power outage or water supply failure.
 
 (10) Internal drainage and sewage disposal in the premises sha ll be directed to a septic tank or 
soakage pit, and if the septic tank or soakage pit is in a water source, it shall be more than 15.25 
meters away.
 
8. Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a lice nse made under this by-law, the Chairman; 
 
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the prem ises if it is in accordance with the 
conditions mentioned in Section 7. 
 
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it i s not complied with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7.
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license 

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 4A
 
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an  inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously can celled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license is related.
 
11. All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein.
 (1) The clothes handed over for cleaning shall be kept in a container in a speciﬁ c room on the premises 
until it is cleaned. 
 (2) Disposal of any chemicals used to clean clothes on the premises shall be done in accordance with 
the recommendations of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or  the Public Health Inspector.
 (3) Drains or pipes which discharge waste water due to cleanin g of clothes in the premises shall be 
directed to a septic tank or soakage pit so that it does not open on the ground surface.
 
 (4) Latrines for employees on the premises shall be kept clean and disinfected. 
 (5) If burning charcoal is used for ironing, they shall be thoroughly extinguished after use, collected 
in a separate container and disposed as waste.
 
 (6)  If there are residential employees on the premises;
 (A)Separate residential facilities shall be provided under ade quate sanitation facilities.
 (B)The area for the purpose of accommodation and dining on the  premises shall be kept separate 
from the area where the licensing process takes place. 
 
 (7) A person suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infecte d or such a vector or 
an infected person shall not be employed on the premises in any way and the license holder shall 
be always satisﬁ ed that such person is not employed.
 (8) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms.
 (9) It is lawful for the Chairman to order, on the instruction s of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, to 
carry out all or some of the following actions in connection wi th the conduct of license- related 
functions in the premises in the event of the implementation of regulations relating to any epidemic 
situation in the authority area under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the 
regulations made under it.
 (A) That the activities on the premises carried out under the license shall be temporarily suspended 
for a certain period of time.
 (B) That work shall be carried out keeping speciﬁ  c social distancing while working on the 

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 5A
premises.
 (C)  A speciﬁ  c procedure shall be followed in handing over dirty clothes, cleaning and returning.
 (D)The health guidelines applicable to the activities on the p remises shall be displayed in a 
manner visible to the public and employees.
 (E)  That shall enter into a statement of agreement with the C hairman stating that the premises 
will be maintained in accordance with the health regulations applicable from time to time.
 (F)  Employees working on the premises shall engage in work we aring gloves and masks for 
speciﬁ c purposes.
 (G) That the premises shall be disinfected.
 
12. Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed to seale d garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose, and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises, all of them shall only 
be disposed into foot-operated  containers which shall be maint ained on the premises for only that 
purpose.
 
13. Waste collected on the premises shall be disposed in accord ance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Urban Council. 
14. Each premises shall display this by-law and the license obt ained thereon or a copy thereof. 
15. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized  Public Health Inspector or any other 
authorized oﬃ  cer to enter the premises at any reasonable time to inspect whether the premises is in 
accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
16. (1) In the event of being against this by-law or violation of the provisions of this by-law in a premises 
licensed under this by- law, the Chairman shall submit to the l icense holder a notice informing a 
speciﬁ c time period not exceeding thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law.
 
 (2) After submitting a notice under this Section to the licens e holder, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be in 
accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period gr anted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the event  that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under section 16 above. 
18. It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, shall 
be subject to a penalty under Section 153 of the Urban Council Ordinance Chapter 255 read with the  
Sub - Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance. Further, after bein g found guilty of such an oﬀ ence, if 
the violation continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized 
by him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in that    sub-sectios for earch day of 
such violation. 
19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in th is by- law,
 
That the license 
shall be  
isplayed
Power to enter a 
premises
Cancellation of 
the license
Penalty
Deﬁ nition

<!-- page 6 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 6A
 “Council” means Seethawakapura Urban Council,
 “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the Seethawakapura 
Urban Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
 “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health Division  relevant  to the authority area of the Urban Council.
 “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector 
attached to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health  relevant to the 
authority area of the Urban Council.
 "Basic Law" means the  Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
20.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
First Schedule
Application for a License for the year.......................
1. Name of the applicant: -
2. Personal Address: -
3. National Identity Card Number: -
4. Phone number: -
5. Start year: -
6. Address of the laundry or the washing place: -
7. Grama Niladhari Division: -
8. Assessment Number: -
9. Approved building plan number and date: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
 
Date: -
              
           ………………………………. 
         Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
 
 
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: - .................................
           Secretary
 
Inconsistency
between texts

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 7A
Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date: - …………………………….
           Revenue Inspector
 
Chairman,
I recommend issuing a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back. 
Date: - 
           .................................
                   Secretary
 
Secretary,
 
I approve the issuance of a license.
Date: -         .................................
                  Chairman
EOG 01-0195
 

<!-- page 8 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 8A
BY-LAW
 REGULARIZING DISINFECTION OF PUBLIC PLACES
1.  This by-law is enacted to make provisions for the relevant incidental matters, including the disinfection of 
public places and places of worship within the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law regarding the provisions  relating to disinfection of public places in 
the Seethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of Urban 
Council Ordinace Chapter 255, read with the sub - section 157 (9) of the said Ordinance.
   
4.  Under the following circumstances the Chairman shall disinf ect or arrange to do so any place where the 
public gathers or gathered for matters of public importance or for a speciﬁ c purpose including places 
of worship within the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urba n Council (herein after referred to as 
authority area):
   
(1)  In cases where there is a need to disinfect places of worship or other places where public gathers or 
gathered located within the authority area in accordance with t he provisions of the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it. 
   
(2)  When there is a spread of an epidemic in any part or territory of Sri Lanka or in the authority area or 
when the Chairman has decided on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health that there are suﬃ  cient 
grounds to suspect the spread of any epidemic in the authority area. 
   
(3)  When a person dies due to an undiagnosed disease in a auth ority area and the places where the 
deceased person travelled has been identiﬁ ed. 
   
(4)  When the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector has decided that  the premises 
should be disinfected when a large gathering of the public is h eld or is being held at any place of 
worship and when such a religious ceremony is over. 
(5)  When a premises is maintained for a period of time without any activity and is used to gather  
 people back to the premises. 
   
(6) When it has been reported that a patient who has been infected or suspected of being infectious, or who 
has been in contact with such a patient has visited or acted in a place where public is gathered.  
(7)  When the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health has advised that the areas identiﬁ ed as common public places 
shall be disinfected, when an outbreak of an epidemic is reported in their authority area or in any part 
of Sri Lanka. 
   
(8) When the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health has instructed that the relevant premises shall be disinfected for 
the beneﬁ t of the public health, when it matters the public to gather at any place of worship or public 
place.  
Short Title
Circumstances 
where disinfection 
Shall be done

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 9A
   
(9) When any public places are subject to disinfection in accordance with a plan implemented for the 
purpose of promoting and protecting public health in the authority area. 
   
(10) Whenever it is decided by the Chairman to disinfect any pu blic premises as per the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health that it should be done for the sake of a more accurate health care 
existence. 
5.  If any public premises in the authority area is used by any  person for public gathering, when there 
is a possibility of an epidemic spreading in the area or when there is a suspicion that it may be so, 
it is lawful for the Chairman to make any of the following orde rs to the person or the organizer 
engaged as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 (1)  That the premises shall be disinfected before gathering the people in the relevant premises. 
 (2)  That the premises shall be disinfected after the people have gathered and dispersed in the relevant 
premises. 
 (3)  That the premises shall be disinfected before and after use. 
6.  It is the responsibility and duty of the person who gets the order to act in accordance with the orders 
made by the Chairman under the above section
7.  The Chairman may act for the disinfection of religious places and public places within the authority 
area for the beneﬁ t of the public in accordance with a speciﬁ c schedule prepared on the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
8.  It is an oﬀ  ense if a person does not act in accordance with the orders made under Section 5 above 
by the Chairman and shall be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 153 (2) of the Urban council 
Ordinace Chapter 255 of the being convicted by magistrate court.
   
9. If disregards the orders made by the Chairman under Section 5, it is lawful for the Chairman to disinfect 
the premises relevant to that order and charge the defaulter the cost spent incurred. 
   
      10. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law, "Council" means Seethawakapura 
Urban Council,
"Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Seethawakapura Urban Council
at that time or performs the duties of that position,
Ordering a party 
to disinfect
Penalty
Deﬁ nition

<!-- page 10 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 10A
"Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" means those who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health Division 
relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council.
"Public Health Inspector" means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of the 
Urban Council.
"Person" means an individual or managing director or manager of  the organization or any person acting 
on behalf of that organization when referring to an organization by the name of an individual. 
   
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this by-law the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
 EOG 01-0195/2  
 
BY-LAW REGULARIZING RECEPTION HALLS  
       
1.   This by-law is enacted to protect the public health under the activities of the reception halls maintained 
in the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urban Council and regulate, supervise and control such 
places.  
   
2.   This by-law is cited as the By-Law Regarding Reception Hal ls in the Seethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
3.   The Seethawakapura Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of 
Section 153 of Urban Council Ordinaince chapter 255 read with the Sub Section 157(9) of the said 
ordinance
   
4.   No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawakapura Ur ban Council (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a reception hall except under a license obtained from the Chairman 
under this by-law. 
   
5.   All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall  apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.   Submission of an application under the above section can b e made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.   Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall not be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
(1) All constructions relating to the premises shall be constructions duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and Urban 
Inconsistenciy 
between texts
Short title
Legal Power 
Applying for a 
license
Condition for a 
license

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 11A
Development Ordinance and;
 
 (A) If the authority area is subject to zoning, the relevant c onstructions shall be located 
accordingly.
  (B) The Certiﬁ  cate of Conformity shall be obtained prior to construction use.  
   
(2) All constructions shall be well made of permanent construction materials.   
 
(3) The reception halls shall have the necessary reservations, divisions and placements to prevent 
cross-contamination, and the interior shall be designed to maintain adequate distance.  
  
(4) Adequate space shall be maintained inside the halls so that operations can be carried out without 
interruption.    
(5) Premises including buildings shall be designed to prevent t he entry and retention of pests and 
contamination substances.   
(6) The premises shall be designed to facilitate easy and prope r cleaning and to facilitate proper 
supervision of food hygiene. 
(7) The stages in the premises shall be of proper standard and the halls shall be designed to absorb 
internal sound. 
(8) The interior of the hall shall be air-conditioned or have w indows that can be opened to not less 
than one-ﬁ fteenth of the area of the hall leaving space for adequate ventilation. 
   
(9) Adequate lighting in halls shall be arranged in a natural or artiﬁ cial way. 
   
(10) Doors shall have a smooth and non-absorbent surface and sh all be ﬁ xed in such a way that 
automatically closed when appropriate. 
   
(11) Fire protection equipment shall be ﬁ xed in all halls in the premises. 
   
(12) There shall be no fungus growth or leakage from any of the ﬁ xtures or structures installed in the 
premises. 
   
 (13) Window openings in the premises shall be easy to clean and shall be ﬁ tted with nets to prevent 
insects from entering. 
   
 (14)  There shall be separate latrine facilities for customers and employees, which shall be maintained 
separately for both males and females. 
   
 (15) Buildings on the premises shall be made with access facilities for the disabled. 
   
 (16)  Closed drains with slopes preventing sedimentation shall be installed as not to retain wastewater 
and sewage, and all drains shall be directed to a septic tank, soakage pit or central treatment unit 
constructed in accordance with an approved plan, and an approved method shall be followed through 
a water trap or plan to prevent contamination between the premises and the ﬁ nal disposal. 
   
 (17) The waste collected in the premises shall be handed over in accordance with a waste management 
program implemented by the Municipal Council or a speciﬁ c arrangement shall be made for the 
disposal of waste in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
Public Health Inspector. 
  

<!-- page 12 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 12A
 (18) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use i n the premises and shall be stored in 
containers under speciﬁ ed standards. 
   
 (19)  Facilities made with stainless steel or other suitable material for hand washing shall be supplied 
on the premises.  
 
(20)  In the cooking and processing area on the premises, 
 (A)  Floor and walls shall be made of washable and non-slip an d non-absorbent materials.
 (B)  All surfaces shall be inactive for easily cleaned deterge nts and disinfectants.
 (C)  The ceiling shall be constructed to minimize condensation  and to prevent fungus formation 
and cracking.
 (D) If there are any windows and other openings, they shall be  shielded with covers prevent 
entering insects.
 (E) Absorbent fans shall be installed to allow easy ﬂ  ow of air from outside and to ﬂ ow exhaust 
air out. 
   
(21)  In relation to the place where food is served to the cust omers on the premises;
 (A) The space for serving food shall be prepared with more spa ce so that food can be obtained 
with adequate distance. 
 (B) When food is consumed in an open space, it shall be design ed to get well ventilated and 
prevent birds and other animals from entering. 
   
(22)  Adequate parking lots shall be provided for visitors to the premises. 
   
(23)  For the employees on the premises, 
   
 (A) If resided, there shall be room facilities with adequate s anitary facilities for the 
accommodation, and it shall be in a place separate from the food processing and storage area. 
 (B) Rooms shall be arranged so that at least four square meter s of space is available for each 
employee to sleep. 
 (C) Adequate latrine and bathroom facilities shall be provided .  
   
(24) The premises shall be equipped with automatic generators of suﬃ  cient capacity to be utilized in 
case of emergency power failure. 
   
8.   Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a l icense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman;
(1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions under Section 
7 are complied with. 
   
(2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not complied 
with. 
Issuing a License

<!-- page 13 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 13A
   
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
(2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections related 
to the issuance of a license. 
   
10. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously cancelled in accordance with the provisions of  
 this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year i n which the license applies.  
 
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
(1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the ad vice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
(2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordanc e with all guidelines made by 
the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in any case where a disease is 
declared applicable under the orders made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease 
Ordinance. 
  
(3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the authority area, relating to all persons who come 
to the premises expecting services, services shall not be provi ded unless they visit the premises 
in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety instructions 
prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Me dical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises in order to protect 
from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) All latrines and hand washing places on the premises shall be cleaned frequently with disinfectant 
and appropriate method shall be maintained to ensure that all of them are being so. 
   
 (7) The interior ﬂ oor of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that it does not slip easily, and if 
it is somewhat easier to do so during the cleaning process boards mentioning on that regard shall 
be placed in such a place visible to the customers. 
   
 (8) Drains in the premises shall be made as not to retain water and shall be cleaned with disinfectants 
twice daily. 
   
 (9) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the road 
or outside area. 
Fees for a license
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license

<!-- page 14 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 14A
   
 (10) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (11) Adequate facilities shall be in place to regulate the tem perature required for cooking and 
refrigeration of food, and records shall be maintained that it is being so. 
   
 (12) All equipment and utensils used for food preparation shall be maintained in accordance with the 
following requirements. 
   
  (A)  All equipment and utensils used in food preparation shal l be made of a non-absorbent 
material that does not emit any toxins, tastes or odors and shall be made of stainless material.
 (B) All equipment and utensils shall be of such a nature as to  be easily cleaned.
 (C) Containers used for waste disposal shall be made of metal or non-leaking materials and 
shall have lids.
 (D) All equipment and utensil maintained shall be of a suitabl e condition to be used. 
   
 (13) Containers used for serving food shall be such that they can be served in a way that does not harm 
the taste of the food. 
   
 (14) Premises shall have separate refrigeration facilities to store things used for cooking food and 
cooked food or similar. 
   
 (15) Fruits and vegetables used in food preparation shall be thoroughly washed, cleaned and used. 
   
 (16) Water used in the premises shall be kept in non-hazardous containers free from contamination. 
   
 (17) The ice used in the premises shall be made from drinking water. 
   
 (18) Water pipes in the premises shall be maintained so that they can be distinguished from any other 
pipeline. 
   
 (19) A speciﬁ c internal arrangement shall be in place to ensure that every food item cooked on the 
premises is delivered to customers without hazard, and that speciﬁ cally assigned persons shall be 
employed to regulate it. 
   
 (20) Meat and ﬁ sh brought in for food shall be stored in a separate refrigerator on the premises and shall 
always be kept at a temperature of two degrees Celsius until used without contamination. 
   
 (21) All persons involved in serving, handling or assembling food on the premises;
  (A) Shall not touch or contact food with their open hands or ﬁ ngers 
 (B) Utensils and gloves used for handling food shall be a favo urable  use for food. 
 (C) A clean towel shall be used to wipe hands.

<!-- page 15 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 15A
 (D) The bottom of a used plate, cup or other container shall a lways be kept out of contact with 
any food. 
 (E) All utensils used for food serving shall be kept clean and  in separate containers.
 (F) Employees shall work to handle, assemble and serve food in  such a way that their activity, 
usage does not cause food contamination or microbial proliferation in any way. 
   
 (22) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable u nder the Quarantine and 
Prevention of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has 
declared that there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions of 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons involved in preparing, handling, serving, or assembling 
food on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance with the directives made by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the Chairman as per their instructions 
in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law.  
   
 (23) Tables for serving and consuming food on the premises sha ll be in very clean condition and 
disinfected after each serve and consumption and the towels use d for cleaning shall be of clean 
condition. 
   
 (24) Surfaces that are touched by the customers on the premise s shall be cleaned frequently with 
disinfectants. 
   
 (25) Adequate facilities for hand washing and hand drying with disinfectant shall be provided in the 
processing area of the premises and in the food consumption areas of the premises and adequate 
lighting shall be maintained in the premises. 
   
 (26) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use contamination 
of food. 
   
 (27) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be kept on the premises in any way. 
   
 (28) Employees working on the premises shall have undergone a training in food hygiene and shall 
be subjected to medical checkups within a period prescribed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to 
check that they are in proper health condition. Relevant record s shall also be maintained so that 
they can be inspected at any time within the premises. Also the health check-ups on them shall be 
both clinical and epidemiological. 
   
 (29) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (30) The waste generated on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Council and in accordance with the w ritten rules applicable to 
it. 
   
 (31) If the waste generated on the premises is managed by the license holder himself, the Public Health 
Inspector in charge of the relevant area shall be informed and shall act in accordance with the 
instructions given by him. 
   

<!-- page 16 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 16A
 (32) Adequate ﬁ rst aid facilities shall be provided on the premises. 
   
 (33) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask  or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed t o closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with 
other wastes. 
   
 (34) Every person who handle food on the premises shall maintain maximum hygiene during handling of 
food and shall always wear hats, gloves, masks, shoes and appropriate hygienic clothing. 
   
 (35) A person suﬀ ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease or a 
vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious 
disease shall not be employed on the premises.  
   
 (36) Every person involved in handling of food on the premises where the reception halls are located 
shall not engage in activities such as smoking, spitting, coughing, sneezing, or touching the nose, 
which can cause food contamination. 
   
 (37) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic he shall not be entered to the festive occasions on the premises. 
   
 (38) In the event of any person visits the premises for consumption of food or employee serving on 
the premises of a reception hall contracted an infectious, transmittable or skin disease, the license 
holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons on the 
premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him. 
   
 (39) When the premises where the reception halls are located are subjected to the quarantine process, 
the premises shall not be used for any festive occasions until a certiﬁ cate has been issued by the 
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector stating that the quarantine period is over 
and the premises have been completely disinfected. 
   
 (40) Health care measures that are implemented on the premises shall be prominently displayed on the 
premises in such a way that everyone who handles and consumes food in the reception halls can 
learn about the relevant instructions and shall acted according to them. 
   
 (41) The license holder shall have provided all information regarding the employees working on the 
premises to the Chairman. 
   
12.  T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 

<!-- page 17 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 17A
   
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
15.  (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-la w violates the provisions of this by-law or 
acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the lice nse holder informing a speciﬁ c time 
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 15 above. 
   
17.  It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ence, shall 
be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance Chapter 255 futher 
after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ence if the violation continues even after the notice has been  
given by the chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him. he shall be subject to an additional p enalty 
referred to in the aforesaid Sub - section 153 (2) ot the Urban  Council Ordinance chapter 255 for 
each day of Such Violation.
   
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
 “Council” means Seethawakapura Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Seethawakapura Urban 
Council at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached to 
the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of the 
Urban Council,
            “License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license under 
this by-law,
           “Authorized Oﬃ  cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at that time,
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the  
license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions 

<!-- page 18 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 18A
          "Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals or physical 
means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
"Food hygiene" means all the conditions, steps and practices to ensure the safety and suitability of food at 
all stages in the food chain,
"Hazards" means a biological, chemical, or condition that is likely to cause adverse health eﬀ ects,
"Food safety" means the responsibility not cause any harm to the customer during preparing, processing, 
selling, storing, transporting food or while eating,
"Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work,
 "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, chapter 255. 
   
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts of this by-law the Sinhala
text shall prevail. 
First Schedule
Application for a License for the year.......................
1. Name of the applicant: -
2. Personal Address: -
3. National Identity Card Number: -
4. Phone number: -
5. Start year: -
6. Address where the reception hall is located : -
7. Grama Niladhari Division: -
8. Assessment Number: -
9. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:- 
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number   Mobile: - Fixed
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: - (Copies should be attached)
Date: -        ………………………….  
       Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: - .................................
           Secretary
 
Secretary,I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date: - …………………………….           Revenue Inspector
Inconsistency
 between texts

<!-- page 19 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 19A
BY-LAW REGULARIDING TO BEAUTY CENTERS
1.  This by-law is enacted to control and regulate the maintenance of beauty centers maintained within 
the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law Relating To  Beauty Centers of theSeethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance chapter 225 read with the sub. section 157(9) of the said Ordinanc
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawakapura Urb an Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
authority area) shall maintain a beauty center (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under 
a license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) Constructions relating to the premises shall be constructi ons duly made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 197 8 or the Housing and Urban. 
Development Ordinance
 (2) The premises shall be maintained under its own business name.  
Short title
Legal power
Applying  for
a license 
Conditions
 relatedd
 to a license
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
 I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the 
issuance of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: -
           .................................
            Secretary 
          
Eligible in accordance with by - llaw and other rules and regulations. I report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
     Date: -
           .................................
                 Secretary
Secreetary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevent place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
     Date: -
           .................................
                 Secretary
EOG 01-0195/3

<!-- page 20 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 20A
   
 (3) The License holder shall conﬁ rm that a person with a Certiﬁ cate in Beauty Certiﬁ cate or a similar 
vocational competency certiﬁ cate conducted by a training institute registered with the Ter tiary 
and V ocational Education Commission is employed on the premises. 
  
 (4) Constructions on the premises shall be made of permanent construction materials and shall be of 
good and hygienic condition. 
   
 (5) Adequate space shall be provided in proportion to the numb er of clients simultaneously serving 
not less than 2.25 square meters of ﬂ oor area separately for each client. 
   
 (6) For any client who arrive therein in anticipation of services shall provide with adequate space to 
be seated conveniently with at least 1:5 meters distance from t he place where another client is 
being served. 
   
 (7) All walls of the premises shall be not less than 2.7 meters in height and shall be painted. 
   
 (8) All sections of the premises shall be ﬁ nished with a ceiling or concrete plate and shall be at least 
2.7 meters above the ground level. 
   
 (9) The premises shall be air-conditioned or have windows that  can be opened suﬃ  ciently to allow 
air to ﬂ ow in from the outside. 
   
 (10) The premises shall be well ﬁ nished so that the relevant light is well received.  
   
 (11) Drinking water shall be adequately supplied for the use o f the premises and shall be stored in 
containers which meet the standards. 
   
 (12) Facilities shall be provided for bathing when required after providing the services of the client. 
   
 (13) A separate part of the premises shall be maintained for w ashing the equipment and containers 
used for the clients.
 
 (14) There shall be adequate latrine facilities for the employees and customers of the institution and it 
shall be constructed of permanent materials in a proper and hygienic manner. 
   
 (15) Speciﬁ c equipment shall be ﬁ xed for washing the hands, head or face of the customers and t hey 
shall be cleaned and disinfected after use by one person before  being used by another and that 
equipment shall be made of stainless materials. 
   
 (16) Adequate measures shall be taken not ﬂ ow the wastewater discharged from the premises into public 
drains or open ground and shall be properly directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit.  
   
 (17) A septic tank or soakage pit relevant to the premises shall not be open to the outside and if there 
is a water source it shall be constructed at a distance of at least 15.25 meters away.   
   
 (18) If there is a disposal of chemical wastewater from the pr emises, the relevant disposal shall be 
made in accordance with a procedure recommended by the Central Environmental Authority or 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 

<!-- page 21 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 21A
   
 (19) There shall be a separate area on the premises with adequate facilities for the customers waiting 
for services. 
   
 (20) The electrical circuit in the premises shall be checked by a professional and certiﬁ ed to be safe 
from leakage. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of an application for a license made under this by-law, the Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license to the applicant related to the premises if it is in accordance with the conditions 
mentioned in Section 7. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if it is not complied with the conditions mentioned 
in Section 7. 
   
9.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be the fees to be decided and  
 declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic  Law. 
   
  (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge a n inspection fee for site inspections in 
connection with the issuance of a license. 
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license is related. 
   
11.  All persons received a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordan ce with all orders issued by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event of an outbreak of an epidemic 
being declared under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of a risk of an epidemic in the authority area, service facilities 
shall not be provided on the premises unless all persons seeking services come to the premises in 
accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) Health safety instructions shall be implemented properly o n the premises as directed by the 
Director General of Health Services or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or by the Chairman on their 
instructions, in case of any outbreak or risk of any epidemic in the authority area to protect from 
it, and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) An information register shall be maintained relevant to all those who come to the premises expecting 
Issuing a license
Fees for a license
Power to enter the 
premises

<!-- page 22 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 22A
services. 
   
 (6) Every time engages in haircuts, hair colorings, beards and hair removal of the customers, everyone 
who engages in such activities shall wear face masks and gloves as much as possible. 
   
 (7) To manage and maintain equipment and utensils on the premises, the license holder shall ensure 
that there are, 
 (A) Adequate facilities for the sterilization of used equipmen t and utensils; 
 (B) an accepted sterilization method and a adequate number of equipment used for sterilization; 
 (C) Soap or soapy liquid with hand washing facilities when pro viding services to the service 
providers inside; 
 (D) Adequate number of white or other light colored towels and  upper body covers and hats for 
the use of the clients; 
 (E) When electric power tools are used, secure and permanent p ower plugs, to one customer's 
desk; 
 (F) Sterilization methods after each use of equipment. 
   
 (8) Every employee working on the premises shall have a traini ng in the use of safety equipment, service 
delivery and other activities related to the premises. 
   
 (9) Facilities shall be available to provide hot and cold wate r as required for the services relevant to the 
premises. 
   
 (10) Everything used for cosmetic purposes shall be standardiz ed things approved and registered. 
   
 (11) Service providers shall be well trained to provide ﬁ  rst aid functions as required under the services 
provided on the premises. 
   
 (12) The windows shall be kept open for good circulation of ai r in the premises, and if air conditioned, 
all air conditioners shall be kept constant at the prescribed temperature. 
   
 (13) The ﬁ lters of the air conditioners in the premises shall be regularly cleaned and maintained. 
   
 (14) The relevant service shall be provided only after the hands have been cleaned with soap or sanitizer 
before providing the service to a customer. 
   
 (15) When working on the premises, the service shall not be pr ovided to a customer without adequate 
cleaning prior to service after the use of toilets or after contact with any contaminants. 
   
 (16) When serving the customers on the premises, every service provider shall wear an apron and it shall 
be of very clean condition. 
   
 (17) Dust and hair shall be swept and removed after each service on the premises, and all shall be temporarily 
disposed into a sealed garbage bin. 
   
 (18) Floor, chairs, and tables on the premises shall be cleane d daily with disinfectants before starting 
work. 

<!-- page 23 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 23A
   
(19) No person shall use the service area of the premises for eating or any other purpose. 
   
(20) Foot-operated garbage bins with lids shall be kept for the separate collection of waste collected in the 
premises, and waste shall be collected only into that.  
   
 (21) (A) Removed hair shall be collected at the end of each service and disposed in a separate garbage bin. 
(B) Other waste generated by the activities in the premises shall be collected separately without mixing
them with the discharged hair. 
(C) The waste related to the premises shall be disposed in accordance with the waste management
program implemented by the Urban Council or in accordance with the waste disposal strategy
implemented by the license holder as agreed by the Public Health Inspector.  
   
 (22) Latrines in the premises shall be cleaned and disinfected  at least twice a day and shall be kept free 
from odor, and in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an e pidemic in the authority area, the 
latrines on the premises shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the guidelines given by 
the Chairman as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
 (23) Any person who suﬀ ers from any infection, transmittable or skin disease, or who has recently suﬀ ered 
from such a disease, or who has recently nursing a person who has recently infected from any such 
disease, unless the period of infection and incubation has expired, shall not be employed or employed 
as an assistant at any licensed place. 
   
 (24) Any person identiﬁ ed as suﬀ ering from any infection, transmittable or skin disease shall not normally 
be entered to the premises for service. 
   
 (25) When the license holder decides or in case where it is prescribed by the Council or any other competent 
authority as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the body temperature of all persons visit 
seeking service on the premises shall be checked to ensure that their body temperature is at a normal 
level and entered into the premises, and required thermometers shall be maintained to check body 
temperature without contact. 
  
 (26) The health guidelines to be followed by each client on th e premises shall be displayed on the 
premises and the license holder shall ensure that all activities are carried out in accordance with those 
guidelines. 
   
 (27) Applies to everyone employed on the premises, the license  holder shall ensure that, 
 
 (A) That the clothing worn at work is clean and in good health  condition, 
 (B) That the jewelry worn and their nails are maintained in a manner that does not harm the 
customer, 
 (C) That the hands are sanitized and cleaned prior to service.  
   
 (28) It is the job of the license holder to subject the employ ees of the premises to medical checkups at 
least once a year. 
   
 (29) A copy of this by-law and license shall be maintained on display in each premises. 

<!-- page 24 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 24A
   
12.  T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
13.  In the event of an order is in eﬀ  ect under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance 
relating to any epidemic situation pertaining to the authority area, the premises shall be maintained 
in accordance with all the terms of that Order. 
   
14.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
15.   (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-l aw violates the provisions of this by-law or 
acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the lice nse holder informing a speciﬁ c time 
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
16.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 15 
above. 
   
17.  It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, shall 
be subject to a penalty under Sub-Section 153 of Urban Council Ordinance chapter 255 reat with the 
sub section 153 (2) of the said ordinance. Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the 
violation continues even after the notice has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by 
him, he shall be subject to an additional penalty referred to in the aforesaid Sub-Section 153 of Urban 
Council Ordinance chapter 255 reat with the Sub section 153 (2) of the said ordinance for each day 
of such violation. 
   
18.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
“Council” means  Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Seethawakapura Urban Council 
at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
Power to enter the 
premises
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty

<!-- page 25 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 25A
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health Division 
relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached to the 
Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of the Urban 
Council,
"Disinfectant" means to reduce the amount of microorganisms in the environment by a chemical agent or 
physical means to a level that does not reduce the safety or suitability,
   "Reasonable Time" shall mean the Licensed Function or the relevant time.    
 
   
19.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
SCHEDULE
   
chedule
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Start year: -
06. Address where the beauty center is maintained: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number:-  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
           I. Name and personal address
          II. National Identity Card Number
          III. Telephone Number   Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11.  Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
  (Copies should be attached)
Inconsistency  
between texts

<!-- page 26 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 26A
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Date:-            
                   
      ……………………………….
        Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-         .................................
                     Secretary
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :-            
            …………………………….
         Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in respect 
of the application mentioned in the back.
Date :-                                   .................................
                     Secretary
         
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  

<!-- page 27 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 27A
Date :-                               .................................
         Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date :-                               .................................
         Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
EOG - 01-0159
BY-LAW REGULARIZING PRIV ATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
 1. This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise and inspect m atters relating to public health in places 
where private educational institutions are maintained within the authority area of the ......................
Urban Council. 
   
 2. This by-law is cited as the By-Law on Private Educational I nstitutions of the Seethawakapura Urban 
Council. 
   
 3. The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance chapter 225 read with the sub. section 157(9) of the said Ordinanc
   
 4. No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawakapura Urb an Council (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain any building as a private ed ucational institution except under a 
license obtained from the Chairman under this by-law. 
   
 5. All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule under this by-law. 
   
 6. Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
 7. It is lawful for the Council to decide and charge a ﬁ xed inspection fee for site inspections to be carried 
out prior to the issuance of a license in relation to the application made under this by-law. 
   
 8. Anyone applying for a license under this by-law shall have fulﬁ lled the following conditions 
applicable Conditions for a license to a private educational institution herein (hereinafter referred to 
as premises). 
   
 (1) All permanent constructions pertaining to the premises shall be constructions in accordance with a 
plan approved under the Urban Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or under the Housing 
and Urban Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) All constructions on the premises shall be compliant with the objectives for an educational 
purpose. 
   
 (3) All relevant constructions shall be with a proper ﬁ  nishing and arranged in a manner that is 
more favorable and does not adversely aﬀ  ect the educational activities carried out on the 
premises. 
Short title
Applying for a 
License
Inspection fees
Condition for a 
license

<!-- page 28 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 28A
   
 (4) The internal structure of the premises, the layout shall be arranged with adequate space. 
   
 (5) All areas of the premises shall be arranged in such a way as to maintain proper cleanliness. 
   
 (6) The premises shall be properly ventilated and lighted, or artiﬁ cially fulﬁ lled with the necessary 
requirements. 
   
 (7) All outputs on the premises shall be permanently made. 
   
 (8) There shall be separate entrances and exits to the premises and there shall be emergency exits to 
exit the premises in case of an emergency. 
 (9) Lecture halls shall be set up in the premises with platfor ms and they shall be well ventilated or 
air conditioned. 
   
 (10) Each lecture hall shall have separate entrances and exits and shall include an additional exit door 
for emergency exits when the hall is for more than one hundred students.
 (11) Loudspeaker facilities shall be provided when there is a lecture hall for more than fifty
children. 
 (12) In the interior layout of a lecture hall, the seats shall  be arranged so that they can be seated 
at a distance from each other and each seat shall have a table that is at least 0.75 m long and 
wide. 
   
 (13) If the tables and seats in a lecture hall are arranged in such a way that they can be seated together, 
the space shall be kept so that the dimensions and distances me ntioned in Section 12 above can 
be maintained and when seating for a group, seats and tables shall be set up to accommodate no 
more than six students. 
   
 (14) Between seats and tables; There shall be enough space between each set of seat and table, and the 
space provided shall be in such way that it is easy to move. 
   
 (15) Seats and tables shall be ﬁ rmly ﬁ xed to the ﬂ oor and all shall be well made and easy to use. 
   
 (16) The interior walls of the premises shall be arranged in such a way that they do not retain organisms 
and every wall shall be properly ﬁ nished. 
   
 (17) The premises shall have a ﬁ re protection program in place and a ﬁ  re safety certiﬁ cate shall be 
obtained as applicable. 
   
 (18) All halls and other buildings constructed within the premises and section without constructions 
shall be free from unsafe barriers and shall be in a risk-free condition. 
   
 (19) Drains in the premises shall be constructed in such a way that it easily drained without retaining 
wastewater and shall be directed to a septic tank or a soakage pit or a central treatment 
unit. 
   

<!-- page 29 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 29A
 (20) Septic tanks and soakage pits installed in the premises shall be installed in accordance with the 
approved plan and if there is a water source, it shall be set at a distance of at least 15.25 m away 
and it shall not be exposed to air. 
   
 (21) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the premises and all latrines;
 (A) Shall be provided separately for males and females.
 (B) Shall equipped with water storage facilities to maintain a n adequate supply of water on a 
regular basis.
 (C) Each latrine shall have a permanent well-ﬁ xed stainless water basin with a good water supply for 
hand washing at a speciﬁ ed space allocated.
9. Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a license to be issued under this by-law, the Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the ap plicant when the conditions under 
Section 8 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 8 are not 
complied with. 
   
 10. The fees to be charged for a license issued under this by- law shall be the fees to be decided and 
declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 11. If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December 31 of the year in which the license applies. 
   
 12. All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein. 
   
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases Ordinance or regulations made under 
it, the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) The premises shall be well ventilated; if not, all lecture  halls shall be air-conditioned and the 
relevant air conditioning machines shall be in good working con dition in order to maintain a 
proper temperature. 
   
 (3) The sound emitted by the loudspeakers maintained in the lecture halls; shall be adequately controlled 
and maintained in accordance with the national environmental regulations. 
   
 (4) If someone with an infectious disease condition arrives, t here shall be a speciﬁ c place on each 
premises to temporarily quarantine them.
 
 (5) Suﬃ  cient identity information including the name, addresses, and telephone numbers of all those 
studying on the premises shall be maintained, and information a bout the daily visitors shall be 
maintained in an identiﬁ able manner. 
Issuing license
Fees for a license
Validity period of a 
license
Informations 
related to a license
That the license

<!-- page 30 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 30A
   
 (6) All latrines in the premises shall be regularly disinfected and maintained.
 
 (7) All drains in the premises shall be properly cleaned and maintained on the ground surface preventing 
water and dust retention. 
   
 (8) If hand hygiene is required when entering the premises, water basins with adequate water supply 
shall be installed and cleaning agents and sanitizers shall be provided. 
   
 (9) Seats shall be arranged in such a way that the lecturer is  easily visible to the students and the 
students are easily visible to the lecturer. 
   
 (10) A system shall be set up to record information about those who visit the premises on each day when 
the educational activities takes place, shall maintain a separate identity information regarding all 
those who work on the premises. 
 (11) About employees working on the premises,
 (A) If employed as a resident, there shall be adequate sanitary facilities and accommodation facilities.
 (B) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided and maintained separately for males and females. 
   
 (12) First aid facilities shall be provided on the premises so that they can be used for emergencies; The 
staﬀ  shall be trained for that. 
   
 (13) Noise generated during lectures on the premises shall be controlled in accordance with the 
regulations of the Central Environmental Authority. 
   
 (14) All electrical wiring connections in the premises shall b e properly maintained; A report from 
an electrical engineer or a qualiﬁ  ed professional shall be obtained at least once in every two 
years. 
   
 (15) A person suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or suspected to be an infecte d or such a vector or 
an infected person shall not be employed on the premises and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed 
that such person is not employed. 
   
 (16) Sewage collected in the premises shall be disposed in sealed garbage bins speciﬁ cally maintained 
for that purpose; and if there are disposable masks and gloves on the premises; all of them shall 
only be disposed into foot-operated containers which shall be maintained on the premises for only 
that purpose. 
   
 (17) Sewage collected on the premises shall be disposed in accordance with a program implemented 
by the Urban Council or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (18) It is lawful for the Chairman to carry out the following actions on the premises or any of them 
or any other regulations for the beneﬁ t of public health on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health when required to act in the event of an outbreak of an e pidemic under the Quarantine 
and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or a regulation made under it or when there is an epidemic 
situation in the authority area or when the Chairman has decide d, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, that there are suﬃ  cient grounds to suspect the spread of an epidemic.

<!-- page 31 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 31A
 (A) That the work on the premises carried out under the licenc es shall be temporarily suspended 
for a period of time.
 (B) That an emergency response plan shall be in place on the p remises.
 (C) That mass gatherings within the premises shall be stopped.
 (D) That the distribution of lecture leaﬂ  ets by hand shall be stopped.
 (E) That a speciﬁ  ed distance shall be maintained within the premises.
 (F) That to make sure that the body temperature is below the normal range, when entering the 
premises.
 (G) That the air conditioner ﬁ  lters shall be cleaned once a week.
 
 (H) That shall be entered to a statement of agreement with the  Chairman related to the maintenance 
of the premises in accordance with the set of instructions.
 (I) That food shall not be sold or distributed on the premises .
 (J) That respiratory etiquettes shall be followed when coughin g and sneezing.
 
 (K) That there shall be a speciﬁ  c place for food consumption and that food shall be consumed 
separately at that place.
 (L) That health guidelines to be maintained on the premises sh all be exhibited in an easily 
identiﬁ able manner.
 (M) That entry into the premises and exit from the premises sh all be done in groups.
 
 (N) That those who work on the premises shall undergo regular medical check-ups as prescribed 
by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health at regular intervals. 
   
 13. If the sale of processed food is carried out on the premis es, the premises shall be maintained in 
accordance with the relevant written laws and none of those shall be considered to have been suppressed 
subject to a license obtained under this by-law. 
   
 14. Each premises shall display this by-law and the license ob tained thereon or a copy thereof. That  
the license shall be displayed.
   
 15. It is lawful for the Chairman or any other authorized Publ ic Health Inspector or any other authorized 
oﬃ  cer to enter the premises and obtain the required samples at any reasonable time to inspect the 
premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions of this by-law.
   
 16. (1) In the event that a premises licensed under this by-la w violates the provisions of this by-law or 
acts against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the lice nse holder informing a speciﬁ c time 
period not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
That  the license 
shall be displayed
Power to enter a 
prenises

<!-- page 32 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 32A
   
  (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the license holder, the Chairman may grant an 
additional period of time upon a reasonable request to further extend the time period to be in accordance 
with the terms of the relevant notice. The period granted so shall be subject to a maximum period of 
fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
 17. The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder fails to be comply 
with the notice within the period of time or additional period given under Section 16 above. 
   
 18. It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in that sub-section for each day of such violation.  
   
 19. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
  “Council” means ............................. Urban Council,
  “Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ   ce of the Chairman of the ........................... Urban 
Council at that time or an oﬃ  cer who performs the duties of that position,
  “Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
Division relevant to the authority area of the Urban Counci.
  “Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ   ce of Public Health Inspector attached 
to the Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of 
the Urban Council.
  "Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, 255 Chapter.
   
 20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
SCHEDULE
Application to obtain a Trade License for the year....................... 
 01. Name of the applicant: -
 02. Personal Address: -
 03. National Identity Card Number: -
 04. Phone number: -
 05. Start year: -
 06. Address of the private educational institution: - 
 07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
 08. Assessment Number: -
 09. If the private educational institution is registered, its reference number: -  
 10. Information of the manager or agent of the private educati onal institution,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number Mobile: - Fixed: -
  11. Approved building plan number and date: -
Cancellation of the 
license
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions
Inconsistency  
between texts

<!-- page 33 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 33A
 12. Number and Date of the Certiﬁ  cate of Conformity: -
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
I certify that the above information is correct. I request to issue a license to me for the year…………
Date: -    
 ……………………………….
 Signature of the applicant
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to provide me your observations and recomm endations for the issuance of a license 
in relation to the application mentioned on the back.
Date: - ................................. Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––Secretary,
I recommend/do not recommend granting the license.
Date: - .................................
 Revenue Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back.
Date: - ................................. Secretary
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-law and other rules and regulations. I will report to recommend the issuance 
of licenses.
Date: - .................................
  Public Health Inspector
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Secretary,
I recommend / do not recommend issuing a license for the relevant place as per the above application.
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date: - .................................
  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
EOG 01-0195/5
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF MARKET SUPERVISORS AND
OTHER EMPLOYEES
1.  This By-Law is imposed to specify the relevant Terms and Conditions for the proper performanceof the 
duties of the Supervisors and Other Employees appointed for the market owned by Seethawakapura 
Urban Counci. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law to specify the work of t he market Supervisors and Other Employees 
of  Seethawakapura Urban Counci.
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
Short title

<!-- page 34 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 34A
4.  For every market belong to the Seethawakapura Urban Counci,  there should be a post in the name of 
the market supervisor and a suitable person should be appointed to the post. Appropriate appointments 
should be made by the authority 
   
5.  The provisions of Section 32 of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 as well as the provisions 
of section 36 of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 as appropriate, shall be applicable with 
regard to appointments to the post of Market Supervisor. 
 
  
6.  In order to carry out the duties of the Market Supervisor i n a proper and appropriate manner, the 
necessary supporting posts shall be created by the Sabha and es tablished in accordance with the 
relevant procedures Supporting posts creation 
7.  The Market Supervisor shall carry out the following functio ns either by himself or his associates 
within the Public Market Premises (hereinafter referred to as the Premises) Functions of Market 
Supervisor
  
 (1) Registration and maintenance of all traders in the premises. 
   
 (2) Placement of Traders by taking into account the zoning that operates within the premises. 
   
 (3) If there is a permanent operation of the shops, it is necessary to  keep a close eye on the 
conduct of the trade under the respective premises in accordanc e with the terms of the relevant 
agreement. 
   
 (4) To monitor the cleanliness of the latrines in the premises  and to ensure that the latrines are 
maintained in accordance with the by-laws regarding public latrines and to direct the staﬀ  in this 
regard 
   
 (5) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council 
   
 (6) Taking action to ensure that the waste collected in the pr emises is disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program implemented by the Urban Council 
   
 (7) Sewage in the premises should be directed to the respectiv e pits or suction ditches so that water 
does not escape out of the drains 
   
 (8) Taking all measures to maintain the provisions of the by-laws of the Urban Council regarding the 
public market and private market regarding the trade carried out in the premises 
   
 (9) Carrying out the disinfection process in the public market premises in a timely manner. 
   
 (10) Ensuring that no alcohol, drug use or any other illegal activities take place in the premises. 
   
 (11) Taking all necessary steps to maintain the premises as a public health friendly premises. 
   
 (12) Prevent parking of vehicles other than in the parking lot within the premises and direct the proper 
use of the entrances and exits. 
   
Appoiment
Supporting posts 
creation
S
Functions of 
Market Supervisor

<!-- page 35 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 35A
 (13) Advice and guide the users on matters to be followed for the regular cleanliness of the premises 
and supervise accordingly. 
   
 (14) Prevent begging, temporary accommodation and unauthorized use of the premises. 
   
 (15) Take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of animals such as dogs and cats on the premises. 
   
 (16) Taking action to collect the fees and rent due for the Urban Council from the traders engage in 
trade in the premises. 
   
8.  The Supervisor of the public market may delegate the task t o the assistants to carry out the work 
assigned to him under Article 7 of this by-law and he shall ensure that the work so assigned is carried 
out in a proper and appropriate manner. 
   
9.  Whenever there is an outbreak of an epidemic in any part or  territory of Sri Lanka or when there is a 
suspicion of an outbreak in the authority area, It is the duty of the Market Supervisor to ensure that 
all steps are taken to implement the following or any other instruction given by the Chairman on the 
instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health regarding the premises Follow the instruction d uring 
the outbreak of an epidemic
   
 (1) Make sure that the water supply for hand washing placed in various places on the premises is safe 
and in constant use for the users of the premises. 
   
 (2) Ensure that the conditions connected with the use of publi c latrines in the premises are properly 
observed and the relevant health instructions are followed. 
   
 (3) The disinfection process on the premises should be carried out in accordance with the instructions 
of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the Public Health Inspector. 
   
 (4) All activities in the premises are carried out in accordance with the instructions given to the users 
of the premises to maintain the social distance  
   
 (5) Action shall be taken in accordance with the instructions to restrict the entry of vehicles into the 
premises. 
   
 (6) That health advice to be followed in the premises shall be  displayed in the premises through 
advertisements and other advertising methods. 
   
 (7) The disposal of the waste of used Masks, gloves, etc. in t he premises are to be considered as 
clinical waste and they are disposed without mixing with other waste  
   
 (8) In the event of the Chairman suspending business activities in the premises for the sake of public 
health, no trade or public gathering shall not be taken place in the premises  
   
 (9) Each stall in the premises has a speciﬁ c person appointed in connection with the cash transactions 
   
 (10) Any instruction given by the Chairman on the instructions of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or 
the Public Health Inspector for the beneﬁ t of the public health shall be duly executed within the 
premises. 
Follow the 
instruction during 
the outbreak of an 
epidemic

<!-- page 36 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 36A
   
10. It is the responsibility of the Market Supervisor to carry out the duties assigned to him and make 
other employees to carry out their duties assigned to them, properly by this by-law. 
   
11. The market supervisor shall maintain a records of the day-t o-day activities of the employees in 
the premises; a daily notebook should also be maintained in the  premises for visitors' notes for 
follow-up 
   
12. It is the responsibility and duty of the Market Supervisor to ensure that all activities are carried 
out in accordance with the written directives related to the public market and its activities by the 
Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, and that the instructions given after such supervision 
are properly implemented Supervision
   
13. The Supervisor of the market shall always act under the gen eral administration of the Chairman 
and Secretary of the Sabha  
14. 1.Unless a diﬀ erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by-law, this by-law,
     “Sabha” means Urban Council, "Chairman" means Seethawakapu ra  the current Chairman of the 
Urban Council or those who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman, 
  "Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health" means the person holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health
  Division relevant to the Urban Council area,“Public Health In spector” means a person who holds 
the post of Public Health Inspector attached to the oﬃ  ce of the Urban Council or Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health working in the authority area of the Urban Council 
15. If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, English and Tamil texts in this by-law, Sinhala 
  text will prevail Inconsistencies between texts
   
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING FAIRS AND MARKETS
1.  This By-Law is enacted to regulate and monitor the public o r private markets maintained within the
  authority area of Seethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
2.  This By Law is cited as the By Laws for markets of ........ ................  Urban Counci. Short Title
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
4.  This by-law refers to a public or private market that is ma intained for purchase or sale of goods or 
materials for the public on behalf of Seethawakapura  Urban Council or any other party located within 
the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urban Council (hereina fter referred to as authority area) 
for the purpose.     
Short title
Keeping Records
Supervision
Act under 
the general 
administration of 
the Chairman and 
Secretary of the 
Sabha
Deﬁ nition
Insconsistencies 
between texts

<!-- page 37 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 37A
5.  All public markets and private markets located within the a uthority area shall be maintained under the 
management of a market caretaker (hereinafter referred to as the premises at some places). 
  
6.  All public markets and private markets established and main tained within the authority area shall be 
constructed to meet the following requirements. Requirements for a public and private market
 (1) Permanent buildings pertaining to the premises shall be constructions constructed under the Urban 
Development Authority Act No. 41 of 1978 or in accordance with the provisions of the Housing 
and Urban Development Ordinance. 
 (2) Construction on the premises shall be well made of permanent structure and maintained in good 
condition. 
 (3) There shall be platforms for the sale of goods and materia ls for each permanent construction on 
the premises, and the front of the platforms shall be adequatel y spaced so that buyers can move 
around. 
 (4) Under the permanent construction of the premises, each sta ll shall be at least two square meters 
wide.
 
 (5) All buildings related to the premises shall be constructed  with access facilities for persons with 
disabilities and special needs.
 
 (6) All construction on the premises shall be securely constructed, and all construction materials on 
the premises shall be free from contaminants and materials that are not suitable for food or stock, 
as well as those that do not emit toxic gases.
 
 (7) The internal layout of the buildings on the premises shall be arranged in such a way that they can 
be separated, divided and positioned to prevent cross-pollution in the premises.
 
 (8) The internal structure of the premises shall be designed s o that the hygienic operations of the 
process from bringing the goods to the premises to the sale can be carried out properly.
 
 (9) There should proper access to the premises for the vehicle s carrying goods to the premises and 
the food items in the premises shall not be polluted in any way due to the motor vehicles entering 
the premises.
 
 (10) There should be adequate parking facilities for vehicles carrying goods and customers inside the 
premises.
 
 (11) The ﬂ oor should be prepared in a manner that water does not remain in the premises and arranged 
in a manner that all the drains and rainwater in the premises ﬂ ow easily. 
 (12) Sewage pits for the discharge of wastewater within the premises shall be constructed in accordance 
with the approved design and shall be located at a distance of at least 15.25 m from a water source 
and shall not be exposed to the outside.
 
 (13) Adequate latrine facilities shall be provided in the premises and maintained separately for men 
and women. The provisions of the By-Laws relating to Public latrine in respect of public latrine 
maintained within the premises shall apply with the required minor changes.
 
 (14) Adequate space should be provided within the premises to allow the sale and purchase of goods 
while maintaining adequate social distance, and the internal st ructure should be maintained to 
facilitate the movement of goods within the premises without causing inconvenience to customers.
That the market 
should be under 
the managment of 
a caretaker
Requirements 
for a public and 
private market 

<!-- page 38 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 38A
 
 (15) Every platform set up for the sale of goods should have a non-slip, waterproof, appropriate surface 
and be easy to clean with antiseptic.
 
 (16) The premises should be zoned according to what is for sale, and no goods other than speciﬁ ed in 
the particular zone shall not be sold.
 
 (17) No item or items for sale should be kept in direct contact with the ground and should always be 
placed on a rack with a suﬃ  cient height above the ﬂ oor for sale.
 
 (18) It should be the duty of the caretaker of the market to m ake room for the sale so that there is 
enough space for the customers to move around in the premises to buy the goods.
 
 (19) Equipments used for weighing and measuring in the premises should be with proper standard 
 
 (20) Animals such as dogs and cats should not be allowed to gather or stay in the premises.
 
   
7.  Separate stalls shall be set up in the area reserved for th e sale of ﬁ sh in the premises and the following 
should be completed in this regard. 
 (1) Platforms for the sale of ﬁ sh should be constructed with solid material and drains should also be 
constructed in a manner that the water can ﬂ ow easily.
 
 (2) All equipment in the ﬁ sh storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germ and should not 
emit contaminants or toxic gases into the ﬁ sh.
 
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ xtures hanging above the ﬁ sh for sale should be in a safe condition and 
covered  
 (4) The ﬁ sh market shall be kept clean and disinfected and before starting any sale the place shall be 
cleaned with anti-septic.  
 (5) The parts that contact with the ﬁ sh kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should not 
be contaminated in any way.
 
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of ﬁ sh stalls should be diverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area. 
 (7) The eﬄ  uent collected during the sale of ﬁ sh should be temporarily collected in sealed containers 
so that it does not mix with other eﬄ  uents in the premises and disposed of in accordance with the 
waste management system implemented by the Urban Council or as per the instructions of the 
Public Health Inspector. 
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of ﬁ sh other than kept for sale.
 
 (9) If the ﬁ sh is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be available and the relevant refrigerators 
should be maintained under continuous electricity supply . 
 (10) Fish taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not re-refrigerated and 
sold.  
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in printing paper or in direct contact with ﬁ sh. 
 (12) Fish shall not be stored in sales stall, the equipment non-related ﬁ sh sale shall not be kept in the 
stall.  
 (13) All ﬁ sh sellers shall wear clean clothes. 
Sale of ﬁ sh in the premises

<!-- page 39 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 39A
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written law for the operation of a premises for the 
sale of ﬁ sh, all such licenses must have been obtained by the ﬁ sh sellers in the premises, none of 
those provisions shall not undermine these provisions. 
   
8.  If a zone is created for the sale of meat in the premises, speciﬁ c stalls shall be set up in this regard 
and the following requirement shall be completed  
 (1) Relevant stalls shall be constructed in such a manner as t o be considered as a speciﬁ c premises 
for the purpose, and all relevant stalls shall be maintained under a license in accordance with the 
written rules relating to the maintenance of the premises for the sale of meat 
 (2) All equipment in the meat storage, display, and sale areas should be free from germs and should 
not emit pollutants or toxic gases into the meat  
 (3) Light bulbs and other ﬁ xtures hanging above the meat for sale should be in a safe con dition and 
covered  
 (4) The meat shall be kept clean and disinfected and before starting any sale the place shall be cleaned 
with anti-septic. 
 (5) The parts that contact with the meat kept for sale should not leak any liquid or gas and should not 
be contaminated in any way. 
 (6) Water from the cleaning and use of meat stalls should be d iverted to a septic tank or suction pit 
under a separate drainage system and should not be in contact with other drains in the area.
 
 (7) The eﬄ  uent collected during the sale of meat should be temporarily collected in sealed containers 
so that it does not mix with other eﬄ  uents in the premises and disposed of in accordance with the 
waste management system implemented by the Urban Council or as per the instructions of the 
Public Health Inspector. 
 (8) There should be refrigerators to store extra quantities of meat other than kept for sale.  
 (9) If the meat is stored on site, adequate refrigerators should be available and the relevant refrigerators 
should be maintained under continuous electricity supply. 
 (10) The meat taken out of the refrigerator should be kept at natural temperature and not re-refrigerated 
and sold.  
 (11) Packaging material should not be used in any way in printing paper or in direct contact with the 
meat. 
 (12) The meat shall not be stored in the sales stall, the equipment non-related meat sale shall not be 
kept in the stall.  
 (13) All meat sellers shall wear clean clothes.
 
 (14) If there is a license to be obtained under any written law for the operation of premises for the sale 
of meat. All such licenses must have been obtained by the meat sellers in the premises; none of 
those provisions shall not undermine these provisions. 
   
9.  Platforms for selling fruits and vegetables in the premises  should be at least 45 cm above ground 
level and in the absence of such platforms, they should be placed on a board of suﬃ  cient height and 
sold 
10.  Those who engaged in sales in the premises shall use the s tandardized weighing and measuring 
equipment  
   
11.  Vegetables and fruits kept for sale should never be kept i n mix with rotten vegetables and fruits and 
should always be disposed only in the containers for the disposal of rotten vegetables and fruits. 
General Conditions
Sale of ﬁ sh in the premises

<!-- page 40 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 40A
   
12.  Every trader should make sure that rotten vegetables or fr uits that have not been ready at any time 
for the consumption  
   
13.  Only drinking water shall be used for washing the vegetabl es and fruits in the premises and the 
washing shall be done only in a designated place. 
   
14.  Garbage accumulated due to sales should be disposed only i n the containers kept for disposal at the 
premises or at the designated place at the end of the sales. 
   
15.  No cooking or making ﬁ  re or any other preparation of food shall be done by anyone at the premises. 
   
16.  When selling cooked food at the  premises; 
 (1) Food shall not be sold in a place where there is a risk of  food contamination. 
 (2) Always the food items shall be sold from the sealed or air tight containers. 
 (3) Food items kept in any open space shall not be sold. 
 (4) Cooked food shall not be taken here and there around the p remises and sold. 
 (5) Everyone who sells food item shall use gloves and touch th e food only with the help of a handle to 
hold food. 
   
17.  No person shall drink alcohol or make arrangements to drin k alcohol or smoke in any way at the 
premises  
   
18.  No person in the premises should utter ﬁ  lthy words or behave in an obscene manner  
   
19.  Anyone who suﬀ  ers from any infectious disease, or who is suspected of having  contracted disease, 
or who has been infected with a wound, skin infection, ulcer, or diarrhea, or who has been cared for, 
should not trade on the premises.
 
   
20. The loudspeakers shall not be used in the premises to advertise or present musical programs  
   
21.  No person in the premises shall beg or hold performances  
   
22.  Whatever the above provisions of this by-law contain, ther e are reasonable grounds to suspect that 
in any area or authority area in Sri Lanka, when there is a pro vision for the spread of an epidemic 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of diseases Ordinance and the regulations made under it, In such 
cases, it should be lawful for the Chairman to prescribe that all or some of the following procedures 
shall be followed by the users of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
 (1) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders and consumers at various places in the 
premises  
 (2) That water should be supplied to wash the hands of traders and consumers at various places in the 
premises  
 (3) That public latrines in the premises should be temporarily closed. 
 (4) That there should be several entrances and exits to the premises.
 (5) That the relevant minimum distance between traders and con sumers should be maintained and 
the minimum distance to be maintain between each other. 
 (6) That the premises should be well ventilated  
Maintaining the public market in an epidemic situation

<!-- page 41 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 41A
 (7) That the number of people entered to the premises at a time by the entrances should be limited  
 (8) That respiratory etiquette should be maintained on the pre mises and that anyone suspected of 
having a fever or respiratory illness or such condition should be prohibited from entering the 
premises  
 (9) Traders and users of the premises are required to wear face masks and traders are required to wear 
face masks and gloves  
 (10) That conduct and other necessary instruction should be displayed at the premises and maintained 
on a regular basis  
 (11) That when dealing with money in the premises, a speciﬁ c person shall be deployed at each stall 
to perform that task and he or she shall regularly sterilize and clean their hands  
 (12) That food should not be consumed by anyone in any way in the premises  
 (13) That the premises should be divided into sections and operated for a limited trade.
 (14) That the premises were not maintained for commercial purposes for a period of time 
   
23.  All persons who use the premises shall act in accordance w ith the provisions made by the Chairman 
under the above clause  
   
24.  Every public mar ket owned by the Urban Council and private market should have a boundary schedule 
to the land area  
   
25.  When it is a public market belonging to the Urban Council  
 (1) The Chairman shall ensure that all steps taken to maintain  the provisions of this By-Laws are 
properly implemented  
 (2) As per the decision of the Urban Council, the public market of the Sabha can be entrusted to the 
second parties identiﬁ ed under the proper tender procedure 
 (3) When the public market is maintained by the parties contracted on behalf of the Urban Council, 
it shall be supervised by an oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to specify whether it shall be  
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law 
    
26.  (1) When the public market is maintained by the Urban Coun cil, the fees to be charged for trade in 
the premises should be as determined by the Sabha  
 (2) All matters related to the fees prescribed under sub-clause (1) above and the reservation of space for 
public market vendors shall be decided by the sabha taking into consideration the recommendations 
of a committee appointed by the Urban Council. 
   
27.  All private operating maintained within the authority area  shall not be maintained except under a 
license to be obtained from the Chairman. 
   
28.  All private markets operating within the authority shall not be issue a license unless they comply with 
the provisions of this By-Law  
   
29.  All persons applying for a license under Article 27 shall apply to the Chairman in accordance with 
an application under the Schedule to this By-Law  
   
30.  The fees to be charged in respect of requests received fro m the Urban Council shall be legally 
determined by the sabha through a prior proposal  
   
31.  If a license issued under section 27 is not previously rev oked in accordance with the provisions of 
The terms must be 
complied
Determination of 
fees
License for Private Market
Applying for License

<!-- page 42 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 42A
this by-law, it shall be valid until 31st December of the year in which the license issued  
   
32.  (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this  by-law shall be determined and declared by 
the Sabha, subject to the provisions of the Basic Law 
   
 (2) It should be lawful for the Sabha to determine and charge an inspection fee for a site inspection 
in connection with the issuance of a license  
   
33 . It shall be lawful for an oﬃ   cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the premises and obta in the 
necessary  items to inspect the premises in accordance with the  provisions of this By-Law  
   
34.     (1) In the event of a breach or contradiction of the provisions of this by-law, the Chairman shall give 
notice to the licensee giving a speciﬁ ed period not exceeding thirty days for compliance with the 
by-law  
   
 (2)  Upon submission of a notice under this section to the licensee, the Chairman may grant additional 
time upon request, on reasonable grounds, to grant further time to act in accordance with the terms 
of the relevant notice. The period so granted shall be subjected to a maximum period of fourteen 
days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
35.  The Chairman shall revoke the relevant license in the even t that the licensee fails to comply with the 
notice within the period of time or additional period granted under section 34 above  
   
36.  It is an oﬀ ense to act in violation of any provision of this by-law or to operate a private market without 
obtaining a license under this by-law and after being convicted by a magistrate court under sub-section 
153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 shall be subjected to a penalty. 
  
37.  Unless the context required an interpretation of the terms  of this by-law,
"Sabha" means  Seethawakapura Urban Council ,
"Chairman" refers to the person who holds the post of Chairman of the Seethawakapura Urban Council  at 
present or the person who performs the function of that position.
“Authorized Oﬃ  cer” Any oﬃ  cer authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Urban Council,
"Pollution" means food or food pollutants entry or occurrence.
"Hygiene" refers to all the conditions and practices required to ensure the safety and suitability of food at 
all stages of a food chain 
    
38.  If there are any discrepancies between the Sinhala, Englis h and Tamil texts in this by-law, Sinhala 
text will prevail  
 SCHEDULE 
Application for Trade License for the year ..............
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Address of the place where the fair is held: -
06. Start year: -
License fee
Authority for inspection
Violation of the trems of the license
Penalty
Inconsistencies between texts

<!-- page 43 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 43A
07. Address of the place of business: - 
08. Grama Niladhari Division: -
09. Assessment Number: -
I do herby certify that the above information is true and correct.
I kindly request you that please issue me trade license for the year ............................ for the industry and
place of trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules in this regard.
Date:-………………………. …………………………..
  Signature of the applicant; 
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to 
the applicant mentioned on the back page.
Date:-...............................                                                                                    .................................
  Secretary
;
Secretary,
I recommend ./ Not recommend granting the license
Date :- …………………………….                                                                                                                                             …………………………….     
 Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a license in relation to the 
application mentioned on the back page. 
Date:-............................... 
                                       
.................................
 Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Eligible in accordance with by-laws and other rules and regulations. I do hereby recommend the 
issuance of licenses.
Date :-............                            ................ .................
     
Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend / I do not recommend the issuance a license for the relevant place as per the above application. 
(If not recommended, state the reason).
Date :-                          
  .................................
   Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health
EOG 01-0195/7

<!-- page 44 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 44A
BY-LAW
MAINTAINING BATHING PLACES 
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate and control public bathi ng places maintained within the authority 
area of the Seethwakapura Urban Council . 
    
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law relating to the bathing places within the Seethawakapura Urban 
Council . 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
4.  A bathing area, a well or a pool of water belonging to a ri ver, stream or canal which exists or is 
maintained as a public bathing place for public bathing within the territory of the Urban Council 
(hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be applicable for the purposes under this by-law. 
   
5.  When it comes to a public bathing area belonging to a river, stream or canal located within the authority 
area, with respect to each of those public bathing areas, 
   
 (1) The place shall be maintained under a notice board with th e words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
   
 (2) Notices shall be displayed about the area that can be used safely as a bathing place and the safety 
precautions to be taken in a way that makes it easy for the public to use the bathing area. 
   
 (3) Stairs shall be made with cement and it shall not be slipp ery in such a way to allow safe access 
to water for bathing. 
   
 (4) Whenever possible women and men shall have separate access to the water. 
   
 (5) Maintaining the bathing area shall not endanger any tree in the river, stream, canal or lake reserve 
where the bathing area is located. 
   
 (6) Normally the bathing area shall be used from 06.00 a.m to 07.00 p.m and the bating area could 
be used at night only if adequate electric lighting is provided at the location. 
   
 (7) Separate places to change clothes shall be set up for men and women.
 
 (8) Usage of alcohol shall be prohibited in any form around th e bathing area and notices shall be 
prominently displayed in that regard. 
   
6.  The Urban Council may provide and maintain additional servi ces and facilities for the users of the 
bathing place, and it shall be lawful to charge a fee as decided and published by the Urban Council 
for such services and facilities.
   
7.  When there is a public bathing well or pool located within the authority area, with respect to each of 
those public bathing well or pool,    
 
 (1) The place should be maintained under a notice board with the words declaring it a public bathing 
place. 
Short Name
Maintaining a 
public bathing 
place
setting a fee
When it come to a public bathing well or pool

<!-- page 45 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 45A
   
 (2) Around the well or pool shall have a protective wall of th e height of at least 0.6096 metres 
above ground level and at least to a similar depth below ground level the well or pool should be 
permanently build securely with cement or granite. 
   
 (3) Whenever possible, the public bathing place shall be maintained so that it can be used separately 
for men and women, and separate places for women and men to cha nge clothes shall be 
maintained. 
   
 (4) Drainage should be arranged in such a way that the water u sed for bathing is easily prevented 
from leaking into the bathing well or pool and drains easily out of it. 
   
 (5) Buckets and ropes shall be there as needed to use the water for bathing, and the buckets shall be 
painted to prevent rust. 
   
8.  It is lawful to appoint committees by the Chairman consisti ng of representatives of the residents in the 
vicinity of every public bathing place to advise the Chairman in such matters to assist in the action 
taken by the Urban Council to maintain the public bathing places in accordance with the provisions 
of section 5 and 7 above. 
   
9. (1) The function of a committee appointed under section 8 above shall be as follows.
(A) If there are instances where it is observed that the users of the public bathing places do not comply 
with the provisions of this by-law, they shall report thereon to the Chairman.
(B) To inquire into the requirements of the relevant place for the beneﬁ t of the public and to advise 
and report to the Chairman.
(C) To perform relevant functions with the participation of labor in cases where there is a need to clean 
the bathing pool and well for the beneﬁ t of public health.
(D) To take all possible steps to protect the water sources and the surrounding ﬂ ora and fauna, and to 
advise the Chairman in this regard.  
   
 (2) Committees appointed for the purpose under sub-section (i)  shall gather from time to time and 
shall inform the Chairman of the decisions to be taken. 
   
10.  It is the duty of the Urban Council to take all possible steps to maintain the proper public baths located 
within the authority area. 
   
11. (1) It is lawful to prohibit the use of any public bathing place for a speciﬁ ed period of time by the 
Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health in the event of any epidemic situation 
under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance or any of the regulations made under it, 
applicable to the whole island or part of Sri Lanka.  
   
 (2) Such an order shall be prominently displayed in a public bathing place.   
 
12.  No person shall bath or use the public bathing place for a ny other purpose when the Chairman has 
prohibited using a public bathing place under the section 11 of this by-law during the period of such 
prohibition. 
   
Appointment of committees
The function of a committee
Prohibition of use when an epidemic is decclared

<!-- page 46 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 46A
13.  (1) In case of any epidemic of any infectious or transmissible disease in the area, the Chairman shall 
issue instructions on the procedure to be followed by a person taking a bath in or using a public 
bathing place in accordance with the instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.  
  
 (2) All provisions under sub-section (1) above shall be prominently displayed in the public bathing
place and all persons using the public bathing place shall obey the rules. 
   
14.  Anyone who suﬀ ers from an epidemic or spends a quarantine period after an epidemic or on quarantine 
period on suspicion of such an illness should not use a public bath. 
   
15.  In a public bathing place,
(A) Disposal of the waste generated shall be as speciﬁ  ed by the Chairman and no waste shall be 
released into the external environment.
(B) A garbage bin shall be speciﬁ cally reserved and maintained in the place to dispose things such as 
face masks or gloves worn by any person and shall be disposed only to the garbage bin.
(C) The waste collected shall be disposed according to the waste management program implemented 
by the Urban Council.
   
16.  Water shall not be taken for drinking purposes from a publ ic bathing place in any instance. 
   
17.  No person shall urinate or defecate in the vicinity of a p ublic bathing place unless there are toilets 
and latrines provided by the Urban Council in an area designated as a public bathing place. 
   
18.  Shall not wash vehicles, machineries or agrochemical spraying machines in a place that is maintained 
as a public bathing place. 
   
19.  No person shall bathe, wash or enter any animal in or near  any place designated as a public bathing 
place.    
20.  No person shall roam, walk around a public bathing place w ithout any purpose. 
   
21.  The public bathing place shall be regularly inspected by a n oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to 
ensure that it is in accordance with the provisions of this By-Law. 
   
22.  It is an oﬀ  ense to maintain a pubic bathing place against the provisions of this by-law or violate the 
provisions of this by-law and after being found guilty by a cou rt of competent jurisdiction shall be 
subject to a ﬁ ne under sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.  
 
23.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law;
“Urban Council” means Seethawakapura Urban Council  too;
"Chairman" means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Chairman of the Seethawakapura Urban Council for 
the time or the person who perform the duties of that position,
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person holds the oﬃ  ce of that position for the Division of Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health in the Seethawakapura local authority at the time;
Publication of 
regulations 
relating to an 
epidemic situation
Disposal of waste 
That bathing and 
entering animals is 
Prohibited
 Quality
Deﬁ nition

<!-- page 47 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 47A
"Authorized Oﬃ  cer" means an oﬃ  cer authorized by the then Chairman in writing.   
 
24.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Eng lish and Tamil texts of this by-law the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.    
     
EOG 01-0195/8 
BY-LAW
                                     REGULARIZING VEGETABLES AN D FRUITS SELLERS 
   
1.  This by-law is enacted to regulate, supervise, inspect and control the vegetables and fruits selling 
places in the authority area of the Seethawakapura  Urban Council . 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the By-Law Regarding Vegetables and  Fruits Selling Places in the 
Seethawakapura Urban Council. 
   
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance. 
   
4.  No person within the jurisdiction of the Seethawakapura Urb an Council  (hereinafter referred to as 
the authority area) shall maintain a vegetables and fruits sell ing center or a storage center for such 
sale (hereinafter referred to as the premises) except under a license obtained from the Chairman under 
this by-law. 
   
5.  All persons applying for a license under this by-law shall apply for it under an application prepared 
in accordance with the schedule published in this by-law. 
   
6.  Submission of an application under the above section can be  made by fulﬁ lling the requirements and 
submitting an application to the Chairman by registered post, h anding over in hand or by e-mail to 
the extent permitted by the Council. 
   
7.  Any person applying for a license under this by-law shall n ot be issued a license by the Chairman 
unless the following conditions are met herein. 
   
 (1) Permanent constructions related to the premises shall be c onstructions in accordance with the 
provisions mentioned under the Urban Development Authority Act or the Housing and Urban 
Development Ordinance. 
   
 (2) The material used for construction shall be made of materials that do not retain living organisms, 
and permanent constructions shall be made on the premises to prevent the entry and retention of 
pests and fumes. 
   
 (3) The premises shall be designed to be easily cleaned and in a way so that water does not retain. 
   
 (4) The interior of the premises shall be designed so that the  nature of the fruits and vegetables can 
be inspected always. 
   
 (5) The building, walls of the premises shall be made of washable materials with waterprooﬁ ng so as 
not to absorb water. 
   
 (6) Every construction on the premises shall be free of holes cause for the retention of insects. 
Short title
Applying for a 
License 
Conditions for a 
license 
Inconsistency 
between texts

<!-- page 48 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 48A
   
 (7) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept s hall be easily disinfected and made of 
non-absorbent materials. 
   
 (8) Surfaces where vegetables and fruits are stored and kept s hall be inactive to disinfectants and 
cleaning agents.  
   
 (9) If vegetables or fruits are stored or stored and kept on t he premises; refrigeration facilities shall 
be in place to maintain the speciﬁ ed temperature. 
   
 (10) When keeping vegetables and fruits for sale, refrigeration facilities shall be available to maintain 
it at low temperatures. 
   
 (11) There shall be a ceiling or concrete surface above the place where vegetables and fruits are stored 
or kept. 
   
 (12) The premises shall be air conditioned or windows and other openings shall be set so that air can 
be ﬂ ow well. 
   
 (13) The interior parts of the premises shall be constructed to be easily cleaned. 
   
 (14) The water required for the premises shall be supplied from within or outside the premises and 
shall be equipped with storage facilities for continuous water supply. 
   
 (15) The premises shall have a separate place for washing vegetables and fruits and shall be constructed 
so that water does not retain in the premises.
 
 (16) Internal drains of the premises shall be directed to a soakage pit or a septic tank and if there is 
a source of water in the premises of the respective soakage pit  or septic tank, it shall be set at a 
distance of at least 15.25 meters away. 
   
 (17) For the employees on the premises; 
(i) If staying as residents, there shall be rooms with adequate  sanitary facilities for accommodation. 
(ii) Latrine facilities shall be provided as appropriate. 
   
 (18) Platforms for keeping or storing vegetables and fruits in the premises shall be set at a height of at 
least 28 cm above the ground. 
   
8.  Within fourteen days of receipt of the application for a li cense to be issued under this by-law, the 
Chairman; 
   
 (1) Shall issue a license pertaining to the premises to the applicant when the conditions under Section 
7 are complied with. 
   
 (2) Shall reject the relevant application with reasons if the conditions under Section 7 are not complied 
with. 
   
Issuing a license 

<!-- page 49 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 49A
9. (1) The fees to be charged for a license issued under this b y-law shall be the fees to be decided 
and declared by the Council subject to the provisions of the Basic Law. 
   
 (2) It shall be lawful for the Council to decide and charge an inspection fee for site inspections related 
to the issuance of a license.  
   
10.  If a license issued under this by-law is not previously ca ncelled in accordance with the provisions of 
this by-law, it shall be valid until December thirty ﬁ rst of the year in which the license applies. 
   
11.  All persons receives a license under this by-law shall act in accordance with the following conditions 
herein.    
 (1) If there are any terms prescribed by the Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
time to time in order to control an epidemic situation declared throughout Sri Lanka or in any part 
of the country or relevant to the authority area or in any case where an epidemic has been declared 
applicable under the regulations made under Quarantine and Prev ention of Diseases Ordinance, 
the premises shall be maintained subject to all such terms. 
   
 (2) All persons employed on the premises shall act in accordance with all terms made by the Chairman 
on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in any case where an epidemic is declared applicable 
under the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance. 
   
 (3) Whenever there is a suspicion of an epidemic in the author ity area, relating to all persons who 
come to the premises expecting services, shall not related to the transactions unless they visit the 
premises in accordance with the relevant health guidelines issued. 
   
 (4) When there is an epidemic in the authority area or risk of an epidemic, the health safety instructions 
prescribed by the Director General of Health Services or the Me dical Oﬃ  cer of Health or the 
Chairman as per their instructions shall be properly implemented in the premises in order to protect 
from it and the license holder shall be satisﬁ ed that it is being so. 
   
 (5) All drains in the premises shall be easily drained and the eﬄ  uent and sewage shall be directed to 
the septic tank, soakage pit or to the central treatment unit according to the approved procedures 
and the necessary action shall be taken to prevent contamination. 
   
 (6) No drain or sewage pipe in the premises shall be directed in any way to a public drain of the road 
or outside area. 
   
 (7) The premises shall be maintained in such a way that there is no external odor due to the discharge 
of wastewater or discharge of waste. 
   
 (8) Light bulbs ﬁ xed above the vegetables or fruits for sale or stored shall be of a safe condition and 
all of them shall be covered. 
   
 (9) Disposal of waste collected in the premises shall be done in accordance with the waste management 
program implemented by the Urban Council and in accordance with the applicable written laws 
in this regard. 
 
(10) If the waste collected at the premises is managed by the l icense holder himself, it shall be in 
accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Public Health Inspector or the Medical Oﬃ  cer of 
Health. 
fees for a license 
Inspection fees
Validity period
Conditions 
applicable to a 
license 

<!-- page 50 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 50A
   
 (11) When using weighing equipment for the sale of vegetables and fruits in the premises, it shall be 
done in accordance with the prescribed standards. 
   
 (12) If prepare fruits to make it easier to eat or to prepare fruit juices on the premises, everyone who 
does so shall not engage in any activity such as fruit preparation or fruit juice preparation without 
the use of gloves and hats.  
   
 (13) When preparing fruit for consumption, shall always use drinking water and ice made from that 
water. 
   
 (14) Preparation of fruits for consumption shall not be done i n advance except in the presence of 
consumers. 
   
 (15) Vegetables and fruits shall be kept for sale so that they  do not mix with rotten vegetables and 
fruits. 
   
 (16) The premises shall be kept in a clean condition at all times and no activities shall be carried out 
on the premises in such a manner as to cause any contamination of vegetables or fruits in the 
premises for any reason. 
   
 (17) When the Chairman has declared a disease condition applicable under the Quarantine and Prevention 
of Disease Ordinance in the authority area or under the orders made under it or has declared that 
there is a risk of any epidemic disease in the authority area as per the instructions of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health all persons working on the premises shall maintain the premises in accordance 
with the directives made by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or a Public Health Inspector or by the 
Chairman as per their instructions in addition to any other provisions of this By-Law. 
   
 (18) Prior to disposal of waste collected in the premises, they shall be maintained in such a way that 
they do not aﬀ ect the things used on the premises in any way and does not ca use contamination 
of vegetables and fruits. 
   
 (19) Pets such as dogs and cats shall not be raised on the premises in any way. 
   
 (20) A health monitoring system shall be set up for the employ ees working on the premises and a 
process shall be put in place to get the health advice they need. 
   
 (21) Those who work as cashiers on the premises shall clean their hands frequently using disinfectants. 
   
 (22) When instructions have been given to use gloves or masks in the community in the event of an 
epidemic, if any person entering the premises disposes the mask  or gloves they are wearing on 
the premises, the disposable mask or gloves shall be disposed t o closed containers that are kept 
on the premises speciﬁ cally for that purpose, and such waste shall be disposed in accordance with 
the waste management program and instructions implemented by the Council without mixing with 
other wastes. 
   
 (23) A person suﬀ ering from any infectious disease or suspected to be infected with such a disease or a 
vector of such a disease or a person infected with wounds, skin infections or any other infectious 
disease shall not be employed on the premises. 
   

<!-- page 51 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 51A
 (24) If there are enough facts to think that any person is suﬀ ering from an infectious disease or an 
epidemic, he shall not be allowed to the premises in any event. 
   
 (25) Employee serving on the premises contracted an infectious , transmittable or skin disease, the 
license holder shall notify the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and upon such notiﬁ cation, all persons on 
the premises shall act in accordance with the quarantine instructions given by the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health or a Public Health Inspector authorized by him.
 
   
12.  It is lawful for a Public Health Inspector or any other oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman to enter the 
premises at any reasonable time to inspect the premises whether it is in accordance with the provisions 
of this by-law and obtain the required samples. 
   
13.  T aking into account the possible causes of the spread of an epidemic in the area, when the Chairman has 
prescribed that the license holder shall enter into a statement of agreement regarding the maintenance 
of the premises as instructed by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, the license holder shall enter into a 
statement of agreement with the Chairman, and the Chairman shall send a copy of it to the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
14. (1)In the event that a premises licensed under this by-law violates the provisions of this by-law or acts 
against it, the Chairman shall submit a notice to the license holder informing a speciﬁ c time period 
not more than thirty days to be in compliance with the by-law. 
   
 (2) After submission of a notice under this Section to the lic ense holder, the Chairman may grant 
an additional period of time upon a reasonable request to furth er extend the time period to be 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant notice. The period  granted so shall be subject to a 
maximum period of fourteen days in addition to the period speciﬁ ed in the ﬁ rst notice. 
   
15.  The Chairman shall cancel the relevant license in the even t that the license holder neglect being 
complied with the notice within the period of time or additiona l period given under Section 
14 above. 
   
16.  It is an oﬀ ense to maintain a premises without a license to be obtained under this by-law or in violation 
of the provisions of this by-law and after being convicted by a  Magistrate Court for that oﬀ ense, 
shall be subject to a penalty under Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
Further, after being found guilty of such an oﬀ ense, if the violation continues even after the notice 
has been given by the Chairman or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him, he shall be subject to an additional 
penalty referred to in the aforesaid Subsection 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255 
for each day of such violation. 
   
17.  Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in t his by-law,
“Council” means Seethawakapura Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the person who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Seethawakapura  Urban Council 
at that time or the person who performs the duties of that position,
“Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health” means the person who holds the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health Division 
relevant to the authority area of the Urban Council,
On - site 
inspection and 
obtaining samples
Cancellation of the 
license 
Penalty
Deﬁ nitions

<!-- page 52 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 52A
“Public Health Inspector” means a person who holds the oﬃ  ce of Public Health Inspector attached to the 
Urban Council or the oﬃ  ce of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health relevant to the authority area of the Urban 
Council,
“License holder” means an institution, person or an individual who has obtained a license under this by-law,
“Authorized Oﬃ  cer” means the oﬃ  cer authorized by the Chairman of the Urban Council at that time,
"Contamination" means the entry or occurrence of contamination substance in a food, 
"Disinfectants" means reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment by chemicals or physical 
means to a state that do not reduce the safety or suitability of the food,
"Reasonable time" means any time engaged in a licensed activity or related work, 
"Basic Law" means the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255.
    
18.  If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil a nd English texts of this by-law, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.  
Schedule
Application to obtain a license to maintain a vegetables/fruits trade stall for the year........... 
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Phone number: -
05. Name of the business : -
06. Address of the place of business: - 
07. Grama Niladhari Division: -
08. Assessment Number: -
09. If the business name registration has been obtained, its reference number: -  
10. Information of the manager or agent of the business place,
 I. Name and personal address
 II. National Identity Card Number
 III. Telephone Number  Mobile: -                                        Fixed: - 
 
11. Number and date of the construction approval plan relevant to the business: -
(Copies should be attached)
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
Inconsistency between texts 

<!-- page 53 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 53A
I request you to issue me a license for the year ……………………………… for the place where the trade 
mentioned above is conducted.
Date:- ……………………………….
     
 Signature of the applicant 
For oﬃ  ce use 
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of 
a license in respect of the application mentioned in the back. 
Date:-    
    
 .................................  
        Secretary
Secretary,
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
Date :-    
 …………………………….
 
   Revenue Inspector
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health,
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations promptly for the issuance of a license in 
respect of the application  mentioned in the back.
Date :-                          
    
 .................................  
  Secretary
Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, 
Compliance with By-Laws and other rules and regulations. I will report for the recommendation of issuing 
a license.  
Date :-                          
    
 .................................  
 Public Health Inspector
Secretary,
I recommend/not recommend the issuance of a license for the relevant place as per above application.
 (If 
not recommended, state the reason.) 
Date :-                          
 .................................
EOG 01-0159/9 Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health

<!-- page 54 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 54A
BY-LAW 
REGULARIZING PUBLIC HEALTH CARE FACILITIES
1.  This By-Law is enacted for the control and management of pu blic health care facilities in the 
Seethawakapura  Urban Council area. 
   
2.  This by-law is cited the by-law on the control and manageme nt of public health care facilities in the 
Seethawakapura Urban Council . Area. 
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
4.  Public health care facilities implemented in the. Seethawak apura Urban Council  area (hereinafter 
referred to as Authority area) shall be necessary to maintain it in an appropriate manner. The Chairman 
shall, in consultation with the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health, take such action. 
   
5.  The Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health and all Public Health Inspectors in the authority area shall be treated as 
oﬃ  cers of the Sabha for the purpose of controlling and managing the public health facilities operated 
by the Sabha.  
   
6.  The Chairman may delegate any of the powers and functions c onferred on him under any written law 
in the control and management of public health facilities in the Authority area to the Medical Oﬃ  cer 
of Health or the Public Health Inspectors subject to the provisions of the relevant written law. 
7. The management of public health care facilities related to t he following services operated by the 
Sabha in the authority area shall be carried out under the supervision of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
1. Waste management activities in the area
2. Maternal and Child Health Clinics
3. Public toilets and latrines
4. Public Market Services
5. Maintaining slaughterhouses 
   
8.  In the event of any outbreak of any epidemic aﬀ  ecting the Quarantine and Prevention of Diseases 
Ordinance and the Regulations made under it, or any other regulation applicable under that Ordinance, 
shall be maintained by the Sabha. All regulations regarding the maintenance of services shall be made 
by the Chairman in accordance with the recommendations of Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
9.  A report prepared on the recommendations to be implemented for the next month in the proper 
maintenance of the public health facilities maintained by the S abha and a monthly report on the 
activities related to the management of the public health facilities relevant to the public health in the 
area with respect to the previous month shall be submitted by t he Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to the 
Sabha every month.
 10.  The recommendation of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall be submitted to the Sabha in respect of 
every measure applicable to the control and management of the relevant health care facilities in the 
authority exercise of the Sabha within the authority area of the Public Health Authority conferred by 
the written law. 
  
11.  Health protection to be enforced in the authority area in case of any contagious disease within the 
authority area or in case of a disease situation connected under the Quarantine or Prevention of Diseases 
Short title
The Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health and the Public Health Inspectors shall be treated as oﬃ  cers of the Sabha
Delegate of power
Under the supervision of the Medical Oﬃ  cer ofHealth
Making Regulations
Monthly Report 

<!-- page 55 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 55A
Ordinance and the orders made under it, steps shall be taken by  the Chairman in consultation with 
the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health. 
   
12.  In a determination made under Article 11 above, it is the duty of the ordering person to duly provide 
such prescribed information to the prescribed persons within the prescribed time. 
   
13.  Information to be collected in order to prevent the spread  of an epidemic or any contagious disease 
within the authority area applicable to the regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention of 
diseases Ordinance. It is lawful for a Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health to direct any person to provide data 
to himself or to an authorized authority. 
   
14.  If a person who has obtained the relevant order in accorda nce with an order under Section 12 above, 
does not act in accordance with Section 13 above and after bein g convicted by a Magistrate Court 
under Sub-section 153 (2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapt er 255 shall be subjected to a 
penalty. 
   
15.  It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain a proper arrang ement under the Head Oﬃ  ce of the Sabha 
and all sub-oﬃ  ces for the execution of the functions prescribed and delegated under this By-Law. 
   
16.   Unless other meanings are required in relation to the ter ms of this by-law, 
 “Sabha” refers  the Seethawakapura Urban Council
“Chairman” refers those who hold the oﬃ  ce of the Chairman of the Seethawakapura  Urban Council at 
present or perform the duties of that oﬃ  ce,
"Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" refers to the persons holding the post for the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health Division 
relevant to the Urban Council area.
"Public Health Inspector" refers a person who holds the post of Public Health Inspector attached to the oﬃ  ce 
of the Urban Council or Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health attached to the authority area of the Urban Council.
"Person" refers to a person or in case of an organization, the Managing Director or Manager of the 
organization or any person acting on behalf of that organization, 
   
17.  If there are inconsistencies between the Sinhala, Tamil an d English texts in this by-law, the Sinhala 
text will prevail.
EOG 01-0195/10
BY-LAW
REGULARIZING MOBILE TRADE
1.  This By-Law is enacted to make provisions for ancillary mat ters, including the supervision of traders 
engaged in mobile trade within the authority area of the Seethawakapura Urban Council . 
   
2.  This by-law is cited as the by-law on mobile trade of the S eethawakapura Urban Council.  
3.  The Urban Council is vested with powers to formulate these by- laws by virtue of Section 153 of 
Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255, read with the Sub-Section 157(9) of the said Ordinance.
 
4.  A person who sells any commodity including goods or food wh ile visiting the Seethawakapura  Urban 
Council  area (hereinafter referred to as authority area) shall be obtained a license from the Chairman 
under this by-law.  
   
Short title
Obtaining a License
Obtaining details 
Penalty

<!-- page 56 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 56A
5.  (1) Every person applying for a license under section 4 above  shall apply for it through an application
 form obtained from the Urban Council. 
    
 (2) The fee to be charged by the Urban Council for issuing an application for a license under this by-law 
shall be as determined by the Council. 
   
6.  The Chairman shall not issue a license in this regard unles s all the persons applying for a license 
under this by-law as a mobile trader have fulﬁ lled the following: 
   
 (1) The identities of the trader or persons engaged in the mobile trade shall be veriﬁ ed in an acceptable 
manner. 
   
 (2) If a bicycle, tricycle, cart, or motor vehicle is used for  commercial purposes, evidence must 
be provided that it was designed or prepared in such a way that  it can be used for such 
purposes. 
   
 (3) If loudspeakers are used in the mobile trade, it should be ascertained that a license has been obtained 
from the relevant competent authority in the event that a relevant license is required. 
 (4) An outline of the areas intended for mobile trade within the authority area shall be provided. 
   
 (5) If cooked food is sold in the mobile trade, all persons involved in the handling the relevant food 
shall have a certiﬁ cate of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health of the area in accordance with the format 
set out in this Schedule of the By-Laws. 
   
7.  The fee to be charged for a license issued under this by-law shall be a proportion to the period for which 
the license is requested and the fee shall be determined and declared by the Sabha by a resolution. 
   
8.  The maximum validity period of a license issued under this by-law shall expire on 31st December of 
the year in which the license is issued and the relevant license may be issued for a period for which 
the license is applied for in the calendar year. 
   
9.  Every mobile trader shall keep the relevant license in his possession. 
   
10.  A license issued under this by-law shall be valid only for the period of its issuance unless it is revoked 
in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 
   
11.  All persons licensed under this by-law shall conduct trade  in accordance with the following 
conditions. 
   
 (1) There shall be no noise or air pollution to the public due to the mobile trade or its publicity. 
   
 (2) (i) Any waste generated during the moble trade shall not be dis posed to the surrounding 
environment; all waste should be handed over in accordance with the waste management program 
implemented by the Urban Council in the area. 
(ii) If the licensee manages the waste generated by himself, a certiﬁ cate in that regard shall be submitted 
and consent obtained from the Public Health Inspector of the authority area.  
   
Applicaction for a License 
Conditions to issue a License 
Fee for a License 
Conditions Applicable to a License 

<!-- page 57 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 57A
 (3) The trade shall be in accordance with the instructions and  criteria put in place by the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health or Chairman on the advice of the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health in the event that 
there is a risk of an epidemic in the whole or part of the territory of Sri Lanka. 
   
 (4) The license issued under this by-law shall be kept in the possession of the trader at all times and 
shall be submitted for inspection at any time upon request by the Chairman or an authorized oﬃ  cer, 
a police oﬃ  cer. 
 
   
 (5) In the event of any outbreak of any contagious disease or contagious disease relating to the 
regulations made under the Quarantine and Prevention Ordinance and any part of Sri Lanka within 
or within the authority area of Sri Lanka, the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health shall be notiﬁ ed in that 
regard. The licensee must act in accordance with the instructions and the licensee must be satisﬁ ed 
that his employees are acting accordingly.
 
 (6) 1. If cooked food is sold under the mobile trade,
 (i) All utensils and tools used for selling food shall be made  of a substance which does not emit 
any toxic substance, odor or taste. Such equipment and tools shall be made of non-abrasive and 
non-corrosive materials and shall be made of materials that are resistant to continuous cleaning 
and disinfection.
 (ii) All equipment and tools shall be designed in such a manne r that antiseptics can be used for 
easy cleaning to prevent unhygienic.
 (iii) If frozen material is sold, it shall be ﬁ  tted with compatible storage and temperature measuring 
or temperature recording equipment.
 (iv) Separate enclosed waste bins shall be maintained for the collection of waste accumulated 
during trade. However, when disposing of items such as face mas ks, one should keep sealed 
containers so that they do not mix with other waste.
 (v) All equipment and tools used shall be in good condition.
 (vi) Packaging should be designed and maintained to prevent fo od contamination and to prevent 
food from pests during the sale.
 (vii) Whatever equipment is used to serve food to the consumer  they shall not be prepared in 
manner that cannot be reused.
 (viii) Food kept for sale shall not be contaminated in any way .
 (ix) Catching food shall not be done using money and a separat e person should be employed 
for money transactions.
 (x) Metal grip should be used to hold food.. 
 (7) The mobile trade shall not disturb the movement of passengers or vehicles in any way. 
   
 (8) Trade shall be conducted only within a territory valid for  the license and in no way exceed the 
permitted period speciﬁ ed in the license. 
   
 (9) A person suﬀ ering from or infecting or infecting any person with any form of contagious disease 
shall not engage in trade or trade-related assistance and shall  maintain the sanitized material to 
be utilized when necessary. 
   
 (10) The meat of any animal subject to the Slaughter Ordinance shall not be sold under the mobile 
Trade. 
   
 (11) No mobile trader should stay in one place for long periods of time. 
   

<!-- page 58 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 58A
12.  Even if there is a license issued under this by-law, the C hairman shall, on the advice of the Medical 
Oﬃ  cer of Health, determine in or within the authority area or a ny part of it, if there is a risk of 
contagious or contagious disease spreading.
 (i) The activity may be permanently prohibited under a license  issued.
 (ii) Areas of trade may be restricted under the license issued .
 (iii) Operation under the license may be suspended. 
   
13.  It is legal for the Chairman or an authorized oﬃ  cer to obtain a sample of a food, commodity or item 
sold by a mobile trader at its price, and no licensee shall refuse or interfere with it. 
   
14.  If a person engages in mobile trade violates the provision s of this By-Laws and disregards the 
instructions given to comply with the By-Laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to revoke a license 
issued by Chairman under Article 3 of this By-Laws. 
   
15.  It is an oﬀ  ense to engage in the mobile trade without obtaining a license  under this by-law and to 
engage in the trade without a valid license, and after being convicted by a Magistrate's Court, he shall 
be subjected to a penalty under sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Council Ordinance, Chapter 255. 
   
16.  Unless a diﬀ  erent meaning is required in relation to the terms of this by- law,   
"Urban Council" means Seethawakapura Urban Council ,
"Chairman" means the person who holds the post of Chairman of the Urban Council at present or the person 
who performs the function of that post.
A "Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health" is a person who holds that post in a particular Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health 
division within the authority area of the Urban Council at that time.
A "Public Health Inspector" is a person who holds the post of a Public Health Inspector in a division of 
the Urban Council area at that time.
"Contamination" refers to the entry or formation of a palatable substance into a food or food background
“Food hygiene” includes all the conditions, steps and practice necessary to ensure the safety and suitability 
of food at all stages of the food chain;
"Mobile trade" means the trade of goods, food, or any other commodity by oneself or with the help of an 
animal, or by car, cart, bicycle, or tricycle. 
"Motor vehicle" also means the deﬁ nition given in the Motor Vehicles Ordinance.
 
17.  If there is a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and E nglish texts in this by-law then the Sinhala 
text will prevail.        
First Schedule 
Application for Trade License for the year ..................
01. Name of the applicant: -
02. Personal Address: -
03. National Identity Card Number: -
04. Telephone Number: -
05. Nature of Trade: -
06. Grama Niladhari Division: -
I do hereby certify that the above information is true and correct.
Obtaining Samples 
Penalty for violation
Defnitions
Inconsistency between Texts

<!-- page 59 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'18
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 18.01.2023
 59A
I request that a trade license be issued to me for the year ............................ for the industry and place of 
trade mentioned above. I agree with the existing rules on this.
Date:- 
                                                                                             ………………………….
  Signature of the applicant
For oﬃ  ce use
Revenue Inspector,
I kindly request you to give me your observations and recommendations as soon as possible for the issuance 
of a license in relation to the application mentioned on the back page 
Date:-              .................................
  Secretary
Secretary,
I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :-        
  …………………………….
                                                                                                          Revenue Inspector
Chairman,
…………………….. Urban Council
I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :-                    ……………………………. 
  Secretary
I recommend / not recommend granting the license.
Date :-  …………………………….
          Chairman
                ........................ Urban Council
Schedule
Medical certiﬁ cate issued to Mobile traders in the …………………………..Urban Council area
I.......................................... Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health ....................................... area do hereby certify that  
Mr. / Mrs.............................................. bearer of National Identity Card No. .......................................... was 
physically examined after a proper laboratory test revealed that he / she has not exposed an infectious 
disease or any illness that could pose a future threat to food safety. I also certify that he / she has suﬀ ered
from skin infections, ulcers or diarrhea.
Date :-  
..................…………………………….
  Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health (Oﬃ  cial seal)
                
EOG 01-0195/11
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI  LANKA.
Photo