

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1101
1101
wxl 1"763 - 2012 cqks 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'15
No. 1,763 – FRIDAY, JUNE 15, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1104
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1107
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd June, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th June,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,762 of 08.06.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1102
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1103
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1104
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th of July, 2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd May, 2012.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Moneragala Bibila Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Bibila and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Nilgala Division Monaragala.
06–499
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1105
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th of July, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd May, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Rideegama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Weudawilli Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Hewawissa Kurunegala.
Korale Division
06–498
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1106
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th of July, 2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd May, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Births and Deaths Medical District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Registrar of Karapitiya Government General, District Secretariat,
General Hospital Division in Galle Town Galle.
06–497
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th of July, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
29th May, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Poojapitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Harispattuwa and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Galasiyapattuwa No. 02 Kandy.
Division
06–568

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1107
MINISTRY  OF  EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for Filling of Vacancies
in the Home Based Personal Assistant's Posts in Sri
Lanka Missions Abroad – 2012
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for selection of Home Based
Personal Assistants who are competent in English Stenography and
Computer Applications, for appointment to Sri Lanka Missions
Abroad, from Public Management Assistant's Service, Provincial
Public Service and Local Government Service and Semi Government
Organizations such as Corporations/State Banks and other Statutory
Bodies.
02. Eligibility :–
(a) Should be a Sri Lanka citizen and if the applicant is married
spouse should also be a Sri Lanka citizen ;
(b) Permanent Officers from the Public Management
Assistant's Service, Provincial Public Service and the Local
Government Service who are not more than 56 years of
age on the closing date of applications and have completed
a minimum of 05 years service in English Stenography and
Computer Applications ;
(c) Permanent Officers in Semi-Government Organizations
such as Corporations, State Banks and other Statutory
Bodies who are not more than 55 years of age on the
closing date of applications and having a minimum of 05
years of experience in English Stenography and Computer
Applications.
Note.–(i) Those who are currently serving in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad are not eligible to apply.
(ii) Those who have served in Sri Lanka Missions earlier
and returned to Sri Lanka may sit the exam. However,
appointment will be given on priority basis to those
who have spent at least 12 months after returning to
Sri Lanka on completion of their last posting.
(iii) Those who are serving on contract basis, casual basis
or temporary basis in the Services mentioned under
02(b) and (c) are not eligible to apply.
03. Method of Selection :–
3.1 Applicants will be required to sit for a test in English
Stenography. The test will be held in Colombo in the
English medium only. The speed in Stenography required
for the test will be 80 w. p. m. 100 marks will be allocated
for this English Stenography test. Those who have secured
40% or more at this test will be called upon to an interview.
However, in case if there are an insufficient number of
qualified applicants with the above mark levels at the
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
written examination, Secretary to the Ministry of External
Affairs will reserve the right to call candidates with lesser
marks for the interview.
3.2 Persons selected on merit from the written examination
will be called for an interview. During the interview, the
eligibility of candidates and their supportive documents
will be verified. The interview will be conducted by a
board appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of External
Affairs. The placement will be finalized at the discretion
of the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs.
3.3 The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
will be final with regard to conducting the examination and
issuing results.
04. Terms of Engagement :–
4.1 ( a) An officer selected will be required to serve initially
in Colombo at the Ministry of External Affairs for a
specified period prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission Abroad. If his/her work and conduct during
this initial period of service at the Ministry of External
Affairs are found to be unsatisfactory, his/her selection
is liable to be cancelled. The period of service in the
Ministry can be changed according to the
requirements of the Ministry.
(b) Posting will be decided on the basis of requirements
of respective Missions and the officer's suitability
and competence (in foreign language etc.). In deciding
on such postings, there is no obligation, on the part
of the Ministry to consider the officer's personal
needs and grievances (children's education etc.).
Further, the Ministry is not bound to fill the vacancies
purely in accordance with the order of merit of the
selection tests.
4.2 ( a) An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years in terms and conditions as
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of External
Affairs and to enter into an agreement to the effect.
(b) Candidates selected from Corporations, State Banks
and other Statutory Bodies have to serve for a
contractual period of 05 years in the Ministry of
External Affairs as well as in the Sri Lanka Mission
Abroad (02 years initially in the Ministry and 03
years in a Mission). However, the period of service
in the Ministry of External Affairs and Sri Lanka
Missions abroad can vary depending on the exigencies
of service. They will be reverted to their previous
posts after the expiry of the contract period of 05
years.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1108
4.3 Officers in Government Service (Public Management
Assistants' Service/Provincial Public Service/Local
Government Service) if selected, will continue to be paid
on the present salary scales. Others will be paid a fixed
salary of Rs. 14,980 per month. In addition, they will be
paid an Overseas Allowance that is applicable, in
accordance with existing rules and regulations while they
are serving in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad.
4.4 When a selected officer is posted to a Sri Lanka Mission
abroad, the Government will meet the cost of air passage
to the country of posting and back, accommodation there
and other allowances as detemined by the Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs during his/her service abroad,
only in respect of the officer, his/her spouse and two
"eligible children". (For the purpose of this clause "eligible
children" mean unmarried children under 21 years of
age.).
05. Method of Application :–
5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. Application
forms should be prepared in an A4 size paper as per the
specimen appended to this notification, containing items
from 01-09 on the first page, 10-19 on the second page
and the rest on the third page and should be filled in
applicant's own hand writing.
When the application forms are prepared in Sinhala or
Tamil languages, the name of the examination should be
mentioned in the English language as well, in addition to
the names in Sinhala or Tamil.
Note.– Applicants from Public Service/Provincial Public
Service/Local Government Service should be use
specimen form No. 1 and the other services please
use the specimen form No. 2.
Application which are not in conformity with the
specimen and those are not providing the required details
will be rejected without any notice. Applicants are advised
to keep a photocopy of the application.
Applications shold be forwarded through the
respective Heads of Departments. Every application
should carry an endorsement from the Head of
Department as to the suitability of the applicant for
service overseas, that the applicant, if selected, can be
released from his/her present post immediately and that
the particulars given in the application are correct.
5.2 The application should be forwarded by registered post
to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla,
on or before 16.07.2012 and should be marked
"Examination for Selection of Home Based Personal
Assistants to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad"
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. English letter
"P" should be clearly indicated within a cage (2cm x 2cm)
on the top of the left side of the envelope. No application
received after the closing date will be accepted.
This examination will be conducted during the Month of
September, 2012 in Colombo.
06. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 400. The fee should
be paid before the closing date of applications at a Divisional
Secretariat in the name of Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, under the Revenue Head
2003-02-13. The receipt obtained, should be pasted in the relevant
cage of the application. Receipt number, Divisional Secretariat, date
and amount paid should also be indicated in the relevant space in the
application. Money Orders or stamps will not be accepted for
payment of examination fees. Under no circumstances, will the
examination fees be refunded. Applicants are advised to keep a
photocopy of the payment receipt.
07. Applications, which are not completed in every respect are
liable to be rejected. No complaints that an application has been lost
or delayed in the post will be considered.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged. Eligible applicants
whose applciations have been accepted will be summoned for the
written examination, which will be conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations. As soon as the Admission Cards are issued,
a notification to that effect will be published in the newspapers by
the Department of Examinations. As instructed in the notification,
the Department of Examinations should be informed in case the
admission cards of any candidate is not received within 2 or 3 days
after the appearance of the paper notification. Such applicants should
inform the Department of Examinations about the non receipt of the
admission card with certified photocopies of the application form,
the receipt issued on payment of examination fees and the receipt
issued on sending the application by registered post. (In case of an
appeal from out station, a fax number should be indicated in order to
send the admission card).
09. Either a National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid pasport will only be accepted to
prove identity of a candidate to a supervisor at examinations
conducted by the Sri Lanka Examination Department.
10. Issuance of admission card to a candidate shall not be in any
way treated as that candidate had satisfied all the qualifications for
the examination.
11. The designation and the work place of the applicant at the
time of the application is made shall be relevant to all matters with
regard to the examination and any request for change thereto after
forwarding the application will not be considered.
12. Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations related to
examination procedures imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Further, a candidate who violates such rules shall be

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1109
subjected to any penalty imposed on him/her by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
KARUNATHILAKE AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
P. O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
15th June, 2012.
SPECIMEN FORM No. 01
A
PPLICATION FOR POST OF HOME BASED PERSONAL ASSISTANTS IN SRI
LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD – 2012
(Only for Applicants from Public/Provincial Public/Local
Government Services)
PART A
(For office use only)
01. (i) Full name of Applicant (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms :
–––––––––––––.
(ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms.
(Eg.- SILV A A. B.) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
03. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
(ii) N. I. C. No. :
(iii) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iv) Age as at closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Civil Status : Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
05. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality :–––––––––.
06.Number of children, their names, dates of birth and their ages :
––––––––––––.
07. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (If a State
Officer, give full particulars) :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications (including medium) :––––––––––––.
09. Date of First Appointment under Public/Provincial Public/Local
Government Sector :––––––––––––.
10. Date of confirmation :––––––––––––.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it :––––––––––––.
12. Present Annual Salary :––––––––––––.
13. Nature of Present Duties :––––––––––––.
14. Speed in :
(a) English Stenography :––––––––––––.
(b) English Typing :––––––––––––.
15. proficiency in :
(a) English Language :––––––––––––.
(b) Sinhala/Tamil Language :––––––––––––.
(c) Computer Literacy :––––––––––––.
(d) Other Foreign Languages :––––––––––––.
16. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period :––––––––––––.
17. Any other qualifications :––––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt obtained from the Divisional Secretariat for the
payment of correct amount of examination fees, in the below cage.
(i) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) Am ount :––––––––––––.
19. Certificate by Applicant :-
I declare that during the five years preceding ...................... I have
earned all increments and that I have not been subjected to any form
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) and that to the best
of my knowledge and belief the information given in this form is
correct and accurate.
I further declare that I will be subject to all the rules and regulations
stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard
to conducting the examination and issuance of results.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1110
PPART B
Certificate of the Head of Department
(To be filled in by the Head of the Department)
I have ascertained that during the five years preceding ..................
2012, Mr./Mrs./Miss...................... has
(a) Earned all his/her increments,
(b) Not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment
(excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct. I
hereby certified that the examination fees have been paid and the
receipt is attached herewith.
This officer, if selected, could be released form his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––.
SPECIMEN FORM No. 02
A
PPLICATION FOR POST OF HOME BASED PERSONAL ASSISTANTS IN
SRI LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD – 2012
(For Applicants from Semi-Government Organizations)
PART A
(For office use only)
01. (i) Full name of Applicant (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms :
–––––––––––––.
(ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms.
(Eg.- SILV A A. B.) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
03. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
(ii) N. I. C. No. :
(iii) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iv) Age as at closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Civil Status : Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
05. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality :–––––––––.
06.Number of children, their names, dates of birth and their ages :
––––––––––––.
07. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (If a State
Officer, give full particulars) :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications (including medium) :––––––––––––.
09. Name of the Institution and the period where the applicant has
served during the five years preceding the closing date (Please
annex service certificate) :
Name of Institution Designation Period
From               To
10. Date of confirmation :––––––––––––.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it :––––––––––––.
12. Present Annual Salary :––––––––––––.
13. Nature of Present Duties :––––––––––––.
14. Speed in :
(c) English Stenography :––––––––––––.
(d) English Typing :––––––––––––.
15. proficiency in :
(e) English Language :––––––––––––.
(f) Sinhala/Tamil Language :––––––––––––.
(g) Computer Literacy :––––––––––––.
(h) Other Foreign Languages :––––––––––––.
16. Sri Lanka Mission (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period :––––––––––––.
17. Any other qualifications :––––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt obtained from the Divisional Secretariat for the
payment of correct amount of examination fees, in the below cage.
(i) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) Amount :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1111
19. Certificate by Applicant :-
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is
true and correct. I am aware that, should any of the information given
by me above are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable for
disqualification before selection and to dismissal without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
P
PART B
Certificate of the Head of Institution
(To be filled in by the Head of the Institution)
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ is
serving in this Institution from .................. his/her work and conduct
are satisfactory, the details furnished above are correct according to
the records available in this office and placed his/her signature before
me on ...................... 2012.
This officer, if selected, could be released form his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Institution.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––.
06–515
–––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  PRESCRIBED  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  SEGMENT "B" AND  SEGMENT "A"
OF CLASS II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE – 2011(2012)
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved service
minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the above mentioned
examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo, in October, 2012.
02. (i) These examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by him in respect of the examinations.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to a punishment imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations, if such rules are violated
by them. Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of this gazette notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and
officers in the Public Service should forward their applications through
the respective head of department and officers in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications thorugh the Secretary
of PSC in the Provincial Council where they serve, by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla on or before 16th July, 2012.
The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should
bear clearly the title of the examination. Applications received after
the closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity Cards.– Candidates should prove their identity at the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject
they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents will be
accepted :–
(a) an identity card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons,
(b) a valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any of
the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion of
Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size.
No. 01 to 02 should appear on the first page whilst the
rest should appear on other pages. Applications could be
typed but they should be completed correctly and legibly
by the candidate in his/her own handwriting and in the
language medium in which the candidate sits this
examination.
(ii) When the application form is prepared, the title of the
examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated
in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. Applications which are incomplete
and not prepared in accordance with specimen form will
be rejected without any notice. It is the responsibility of
the candidate to make sure that the application form
perfected by him/her self complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice and it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
(iii) The candidates appearing for the examination for the first
time need not pay examination fees. However, for
subsequent sittings, a fee of Rs. 200 should be paid for
the whole examination and if only one subject is offered,
a fee of Rs. 100 should be paid. The fee can be paid to any
post office in the island to be credited to revenue head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examination
and the receipt obtained thus should be affixed firmly in
the relevant cage. It would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. Under no
circumstance, will the fee be refunded not transferred in
respect of other examinations.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1112
(iv) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
selected by them in their applications. If applications are
received in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, this
examination will be held in those three languages. However,
candidates should answer the question papers in one and
the same language selected by them.
(v) An officer is not allowed to sit for both Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one and the same occasion.
(vi) The officers who have been appointed to Segment IIB of
Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the closing date of
the application can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination
in Segment IIB.
(vii) However, the officers in segment IIA as well as the officers
in Class II segment 'B' who have completed a service
period of five years and passed the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination in
class II segment 'A'.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting himself
for the examination must produce his admission card with bear the
candidate's signature which duly attested to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission
card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card is
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep
the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and
the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and in
case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax
number to which the admission card should be sent. Further, issuance
of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that
the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para (06) above will not
be considered.
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for different
subjects separately at different examinations. However, in order to
secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be obtained in respect
of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to Provincial Public Service will be issued to the Secretaryof
the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the results
of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the
secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
10. Scheme of Examinations :
(1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "B" will consist of 02 question papers :–
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code – (Two
hours) 100 marks – (Subject No. 01).
2. Financial Regulations – (Two hours) 100 marks –
(Subject No. 02).
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject No. 01)
– Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code.
Chapter II Recruitment Procedure and Appointment.
Chapter III Transfers.
Chapter IV Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary Status,
Permanent status and Pensionability.
Chapter V Release, Reversion and Termination of
Employment.
Chapter VIII Overtime, Holidays, Holiday Pay and
Allowances.
Chapter XII Leave.
Chapter XIII Railway Warrants.
Chapter XIV Travel on duty within the Island.
Chapter XIX Government Quarters.
Chapter XLVII General Conduct and discipline.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02) – Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations :
(1) Chapter I.
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
The Consolidated Fund and Planning and Programming
of Expenditure, Form of Presentation of Annual
Estimates, New Proposals, Preparation submission and
Passing of Estimates of Expenditure, V ariations of
Estimates of Expenditure (FR 1 to 68).
(2) Chapter III.
Financial Management and Accountability.
Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers,
Revenue Officers Authorization, Approval,
Certification, Delegation of Authority. (FR 124 to 147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "A" will consist of 02 question papers :–
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code – (Two
hours) 100 marks – (Subject No. 03).
2. Financial Regulations – (Two hours) 100 marks –
(Subject No. 04).
Syllabus for the first question paper.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1113
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject No. 03)
– Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code.
Chapter XV Travel abroad for study, training or on duty.
Chapter XVI Holiday Travel.
Chapter XXIII Special concessions and conditions regarding
officers suffering from certain types of
illnesses.
Chapter XXIV Salary Loans and Advances.
Chapter XXV Concessions to members ot Trade Unions.
Chapter XXVII Channels of communication.
Chapter XXVIII Administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX Right of Government over its officers.
Chapter XXXIII Legal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Chapter XLVIII Rules of disciplinary procedure.
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04) – Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations.
(1) Chapter VI.
Custody of Public Money etc., Imprests and Bank
Accounts. Security and custody of Public etc., Counterfoil
Books, Boards of survey on Cash Stamps etc., Imprests,
Bank Accounts (FR. 315 to 396).
(2) Chapter XIII.
Supplies, Works and Services.
Procurement and contracts, supplies, Custody and
V erfification of Stores, Surplus and unserviceable Articles.
(FR. 685 to 775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs will be the final in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the examination has been
accepted.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail as the accurate text.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
30th May, 2012.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION PRESCRIBED
FOR OFFICERS IN SEGMENT "B" AND SEGMENT
"A" OF CLASS II OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE – 2011(2012)
(Applications for "B" and "A" segments cannot be submitted at
one and the same time).
Medium in which you sit for the examination
(Sinhala – 2/Tamil – 3/English – 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination which you apply
(II'B' – 0/II 'A' – 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with initials : (Indicate the initials at the end of the
name) :–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters) (eg.– SILVA, A. B.)
(b) Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters)
(c) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
(d) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this address)
:–––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters)
...........................................................
(in Sinhala/Tamil) :–
(e) Sex :
(Male - 0 / Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(f) Telephone Number :
(g) National Identity Card Number :
(h) Subject/Subjects offered :–––––––––––.
Subject offered for the Class II Segment B/Class II Segment
A Efficiency Bar Examination (delete inapplicable words)
Subject Subject No.
............................
............................
02. Whether you belong to the Provincial Public Service or Public
Service (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Public Service - 1/Western - 2/Southern - 3/
Central - 4/North Western - 5/Sabaragamuwa - 6/
Uva - 7/North Central - 8/North - 9/East - 10)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1114
03. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 31.12.2011 :
Years : Months : Days :
05. (i) Designation :–––––––––––.
(ii) Class and Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service :–––––.
(should be included as IIA/IIB)
(iii) Service period in the above class and Grade as at 31.12.2011
:–––––––––––.
06. Department which you belong to :–––––––––––.
affix the receipt here (It would be advisable to
keep a copy of the receipt)
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Further, I agree to abide by the rules imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting the
examinations.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of
the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to
sign on his behalf.
Attestation of candidate's signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is
presently employed in my office and is well known to me and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ............... 20.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1-6 above
are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for the examination and
also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above.
–––––––––––,
Signature and designation of
Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–640
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS III  OF  GRAMA   NILADHARI   SERVICE - 2012
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and a
written test in computer skills for the officers in Class III of Grama
Niladhari Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of
Examinations in the month of September, 2012 as per the approved
service minute of Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are
called for the examination.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class III of the of Grama
Niladhari Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Kilinochchi. Examination
will be held only in the towns determined for the purpose. The list
of relevant towns and town numbers are given below.  The relevant
section of the application should be filled by referring to the table
of towns and town numbers given below.  It will not be allowed to
change subsequently the town/towns indicated. Any centre
mentioned above can be cancelled due to insufficiency of candidates
and the candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner - General of
Examinations for violation of these rules and
regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Officers who have been absorbed to Grade III
of Grama Niladhari Service as per the Procedure of Recruitment
effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for this examination.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1115
5.0 Examination Procedure.- Candidates should sit for a written
examination, which will consist of the following subjects :
             Subject Subject Marks Duration
No.
1. Office systems and
Accounts 01 100 2 hours
2. Subject Related
Professional Knowledge 02 100 2 hours
3. Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hours
5.1 Office systems and Accounts (Subject No. 01)
Office Systems :
It is intended to test the candidate's ability to apply the
basic knowledge on office systems used in Grama
Niladhari office and other government offices, ability to
understand official letters and documents properly and
to present his/her opinions/observations through brief
notes and the ability to draft a report on subject related
matters.
Accounts :
It is intended to test the candidates of their knowledge on
basic accounts and accounts systems used in the duties
related to Grama Niladhari Service and other Government
offices, functions of cash control accounts and
procurement procedures.
Part I - Consists of a short answer test. Questions
should be answered in the paper itself.
Should answer all questions ( 25 marks).
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay
type questions. All 03 questions should be
answered. (75 marks)
5.2 Subject Related Professional Knowledge (Subject No. 02)
This paper is designed to test the knowledge of Grama
Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various Acts
and Regulations, Ministries, Departments Provincial
Councils and other Statutory Institutions of the
Government.
Part I - Consists of a short answer test. Questions
should be answered in the paper itself. Should
answer all questions. ( 25 marks)
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay type
questions. All 03  questions should be
answered. (75 marks)
5.3 Computer Test :
The objective of this is to test whether the candidates is
having following skills.
Basic concepts of Information
Technology Windows Operating
System Folder Management
Word Processing File Management
Basic skills, screen
familiarization, editing texts,
Aligning text, fonts and
attributes, indenting paragraphs,
change of line spacing,
Tab setting, finding and replacing
text, spelling and grammar,
thesaurus, working with
columns, page setup, printing
documents, creating tables,
Sorting texts, file management,
mail merging, working with
macros.
Spreadsheets Basic skills, formatting, editing,
columns and ranges, insertion
and deletion, sorting data,
creating charts, printing,
@ function, working with
macros, file management.
Data Base Introduction, Basic Skills
Designing data base and use
Formats
Queries, pop up Forms Dialog
and message boxes Sorting
obtaining reports use of macro
Presentation/Illustrations Basic Skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting
images Clip Art and Graphs Slide
Transition and effects,
Animations using presentation
tools preparing masters, printing
slides and notes.
Internet Introduction to internet, world
wide web, how to navigate,
practical internet.
E-mail Introduction, basic skills,
receiving mail, sending mail,
responding to mails, working
with attachments, creating and
using nicknames, composing
messages.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1116
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I - 40 Multiple Choice Questions/short answer
questions. Time 45 Minutes (40 Marks)
Part II - 05 Semi Structured questions.
Time 45 Minutes (60 Marks)
Note.– Officers those who have obtained computer operating
license awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial
Training Authority and those who have obtained
certificates (of which the recognition is equivalent or
higher to computer operating license) on theory and
practical knowledge of computer technology issued by
the institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and
V ocational Education Commission as per para 08 of annex
2 of Recruitment Procedure for Grama Niladharies dated
29.09.2010 and mentioned here in Schedule - I shall be
exempted from the requirement of passing this computer
test. Further, officers who have obtained the certificate
of Computer Application Assistant (NVQ - Level 3)
offered by National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority shall also be exempted from the written test.
6.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium and candidates should answer question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language.  In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language.  It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
The date after the date on which the examination held for the
candidate to complete all the subjects shall be treated as the date of
passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
8.0 The results of the examination will be issued by the
Commissioner General of Examination to me and action will be
taken to notify the applicants the names of the candidates who
have passed the examination through District Secretaries and
Divisional Secretaries.
9.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through Divisional Secretariat of their Divisional
Secretariat Division to reach the 
Commissioner - General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka
Organization & Foreign Examinations Branch, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, on or before 13th July, 2012. The name of the
examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected.  Incomplete applications, too, will
not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates.- Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the
following documents, along with the admission card issued by the
Department of Examinations on which the signature has been
certified should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registrations of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner - General of Examinations.
11.0 Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page and 6.0 and 7.0 on the second page. The application could
be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate's own handwriting. Application should strictly conform
to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send
more than one application or photocopies. Applications that do
not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of
the examination appearing the specimen in English language as well,
on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected
by him/her complies with the specimen given in the examination
notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any district secretariat or divisional secretariat
office island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained in
favour of the applicant should be affixed to the relevant cage of the
applications form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate. It will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for
this examination in favour of another.
13.0 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations: i.e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1117
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
14.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination.  No travelling expenses will be paid.
15.0 The candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations on
the conduct of the examination imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination. The candidates are liable to be subjected to
any punishments imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and my decision shall be the final, in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
29th of May, 2012.
Schedule – I
The Schedule of the computer certificates issued by the institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and Vocational Education
Commission.
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1 Computer Training Center No. 09, Dharmarama Mawatha, Colombo 06 Com puter Application Assistant
2 Computer Training Center – NAITA Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
3 Computer Training Center – NAITA No. 525/2, Maithiripala Senanayaka Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Rathnanayakepura, Anuradhapura
4 Apprenticeship Training Institute No. 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa Com puter Application Assistant
5 Computer Training Center – NAITA Ratalankawatta, Mapalana, Kamburupitiya Com puter Application Assistant
6 Sri Saranankara Apprentice Training Udawatta, Baddegama Com puter Application Assistant
Center – NAITA
7 Computer Training Center – NAIT A Mahaweli Economic Agency Building, Com puter Application Assistant
Embilipitiya
8 Computer Education Center Divisional Secretariat Of fice, Anguruwathta, Com puter Application Assistant
Madurawela
9 Technical College W erallawatta, Yakkala, Gampaha Computer Application Assistant
10 Yovun Nikethanaya Computer Application Assistant
11 Vocational Training Centre National Youth Services Council, Pallidora Road, Computer Application Assistant
Kawdana, Dehiwala
12 National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
13 Don Bosco V ocational Training Puttalam Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
Centre
14 Institute of Professional Computer No. 178A, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Com puter Application Assistant
Systems
15 Technology and Computer Training No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Institute Maradana, Colombo 10
16 Cholankanda Youth Training Centre Udahenthanna, S. P. O. 20506, Via Gampola Computer Application Assistant
17 Bishop Leo Technical Institute USCOD Centre, St. Bedes Home, Badulla Computer Application Assistant
18 SOS Children's Village of Sri Lanka V ocational Training Centre, Maduruketiya, Computer Application Assistant
Monaragala
19 Beeta Com Multimedia and No. 20, Danovita Road, Meerigama Com puter Application Assistant
Computer Studies
20 Don Bosco Technical Centre No. 22, Don Bosco Mawatha, Ettukala, Computer Application Assistant
Negombo
21 Rathanasela Nenasala Com puter Rathanasela Pirivena, Weegama, Rathmale, Computer Application Assistant
Centre Ku/Itanawatta
22 Navoda Computer Education No. 72, Devananda Road, Navinna, Maharagama Com puter Application Assistant
Institute
23 N. K. I. Computer Training Institute Manahara Building Pituwala Road, Elpitiya Computer Application Assistant
24 Lanka Tech Computer No. 2/52, Horana Road, Piliyandala Com puter Application Assistant
25 M. D. P .  Computer Training Institute No. 64/A/1, Station Road, Kandana Computer Application Assistant

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1118
26 Infornet Computer Systems No. 143/1A, Ananda Senanayaka Complex, Computer Application Assistant
Katuwana Road, Homagama
27 Informax Computer Technology No. 52, Matale Road, Galewela Co mputer Application Assistant
28 Advance Training Centre (ATC) No. 2, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Computer Application Assistant
29 Thondaman V ocational T raining Saumymoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation Co mputer Application Assistant
Centre Pool Bank, Hatton
30 Sri Lanka Nippon Education and Mahindarama Road, Ethulkotte, Kotte Co mputer Application Assistant
Cultural Center
31 Rural V ocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa, Marawila Computer Application Assistant
32 District V ocational Training Centre Galigamuwa Town, Ballapana, Kegalle Computer Application Assistant
33 National Vocational Training Centre No. 354, Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita, Computer Application Assistant
Colombo 05
34 District V ocational Training Centre Saragama, Kurunagala Co mputer Application Assistant
35 National V ocational Training Institute No. 100, Kandawala Road, Ratmalana Computer Application Assistant
36 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Meeta Social Service Foundation, Weherahena, Computer Application Assistant
Weherahena Matara
37 District V ocational Training Centre Wattha, Tissa Road, Wellawaya Computer Application Assistant
38 Agonsu Training Centre Saranawattha, Nayamulla, Morawaka Computer Application Assistant
39 Special V ocational Training Centre Higher Computer Training Institute, Fort, Matara Co mputer Application Assistant
40 Kubalgama Sunami Vocational Sri Jinendraramaya, Kubalgama, Weligama Co mputer Application Assistant
Training Centre
41 Lakviru Sevana Rural Vocational No. 48, Bodhirukkarama Mawatha, Co mputer Application Assistant
Training Centre W ellawaththa, Colombo 06
42 National V ocational T raining Niyagama, Thalgaswala Co mputer Application Assistant
Institute
43 District V ocational Training Centre Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Co mputer Application Assistant
44 Rural V ocational Training Centre Erukkalampiddy, Nagavillu, Palavi Computer Application Assistant.
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS III OF GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE -  (2012)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which you wish
to sit for the examination as per the Para. No.2.0 in the Gazette
Notification)(This cannot be changed subsequently).
Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage).
(This cannot be changed subsequently).
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg: SILVA, A.B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals).
2.2 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
 3.0 3.1 National Identity Card :
3.2 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.).
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
1119
4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 of the Gazette
Notification) :
Index No. Subject Subject No:
01
02
03
5.0 5.1 Grade :–––––––––––.
5.2 Post :–––––––––––.
5.3 Date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––––––.
6.0 N.B :- The receipt of the examination fee obtained from the
Divisional Secretariat in  favour of the applicant should be
affixed here firmly :
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
District / Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Amount Rs. :–––––––––––.
7.0 I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above.  Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations issued by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations regarding this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Divisional Secretary
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. Grama Niladhari, who
works at Grama Niladhari Division of  ........................... in Divisional
Secretary’s Division of ............................... and
(i) has placed his / her signature in my presence ;
(ii) have checked the details provided above ;
(iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination ;
(iv) the receipt of the prescribed examination fee is affixed
here.
 (Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–643
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.