

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2679
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2674
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"136 – 2019 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'08'09
No. 2,136  –  fRiday ,  august 09, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th august, 2019 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th august, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2671 - B 81549- 5,403 (08/2019)
Note.–    (i) Value added tax (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2019.
 (ii) Nation Building tax (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2672
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2673
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner general Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner general of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner general of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
general of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner general of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner general of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2674
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
BaduLLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
09th september, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
at Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 23rd July, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Badulla Bandarawela Post of Registrar of additional Marriages 
(Kandyan/general) in Bandarawela division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, 
district secretariat, Badulla.
08–503

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2675
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages
 
BaduLLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Muslim Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
09th september, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 23rd July, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Muslim Registrar of Marriages 
Passara division 
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, Badulla
08–504 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2676
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrars of births, Deaths and (General) marriages/Additional Registrar of (General),
marriages - Tamil medium
 
BaduLLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrars of Births, deaths and Marriages/additional Registrar of, in the 
divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies as given in the following 
schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agent's Office) or Land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariats 
of the district. 
07. Duly filled applications shall be posted to the address mention in the Schedule on or before 09th September, 
2019 by Registered Post.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
at Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 25th July, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post  and Division for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Badulla soranathota Post of Registrar of Marriages in Viyaluwa 
division and Birth and deaths of soranathota 
(tamil Medium)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, Badulla
08–502

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2677
SECONDmENT Of GOvERNmENT mEDICAL 
OffICERS TO SRI LANkA POLICE RESERvE 
AS ASSISTANT SuPERINTENDENTS Of 
POLICE (mEDICAL OffICERS)
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the Medical Officers 
presently in Government Service to fill the above mentioned 
vacancies for the Post of Medical Officers in the Police 
Medical services division.
02. Eligible candidates should prepare their applications, 
on papers 11"x8" in size, in accordance with the specimen 
form given below, and duly perfected applications should 
be sent by registered post together with certified copies 
of the relevant certificates to reach the address "Director 
Recruitment, No 375, sri sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, 
colombo -06. on or before 11.10.2019. applications 
received thereafter will be rejected. "Post of Reserve 
Assistant Superintendent of Police (Medical Officer) - Sri 
Lanka Police" should be indicated on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope. under no circumstances should the 
applications be handed over personally to any officer.
03. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
(a) Having obtained MBBs (sL) or MBBs or any 
equivalent medical degree conferred by any 
university recognized by the sri Lanka Medical 
council together with permanent and fully 
renewed registration by the sri Lanka Medical 
council.
(b) Preference will be given to those who have 
gathered experience or undergone training in 
special fields as medical officers relevant to the 
present requirements of the Police Hospital.
04. the applicants should attach copies of the following 
documents to the applications prepared in accordance with 
the specimen. (originals should not be attached).
 (i) Birth Certificate
 (ii) Certificates confirming the Educational 
Qualifications
 (iii) Certificates regarding Additional Professional 
Qualifications
 (iv) Certificates regarding Special Professional 
Experience
 (v) Service Certificates.
05. the applicants should face an interview and the 
eligible applicants will be selected depending on the number 
of vacancies available.
06. selected applicants should pass a background 
investigation prior to appointment and should have a 
physical fitness required for police service. Those who are 
found unsuitable will be rejected.
07. Salary and other allowances and benefits :
(a) the selected applicants will be entitled to draw 
the salary and due increments with all allowances 
paid to their respective grades by the department 
of Health services and it will be reimbursed by 
sri Lanka Police. in addition, he or she will be 
entitled to some of the privileges due to the active 
service officers of the Police Reserve.
(b) Entitled to get an official vehicle with a driver 
depending on the exigencies of service.
08. Terms of employment :
(a) the selected applicants will be enlisted 
nominally in active service as Reserve assistant 
superintendent of Police / Reserve Women 
assistant superintendent of Police, in accordance 
with the rules and regulations of the sri Lanka 
Reserve Police.
(b) the selected applicants will continue to maintain 
his or her service seniority and increments in the 
department of Health services.
(c) the selected applicants will be employed at the 
Police Hospital, Narahenpita or in any branch 
affiliated to that.
09. Service Conditions.– conditions outside the general 
conditions laid down in the Public service commission 
Procedural Rules.
(a) the selected applicants will be required to act in 
accordance with the current circulars and orders 
already made or may hereafter be made to give 
effect to the Official Language Policy.
(b) Selected applicants should subscribe affirmation/
oath to the effect that they comply with Police 
code of conduct as per the constitution of 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2678
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and 
together with inspector general of Police circular 
No. 1693/2003 and 1804/2004.
(c) all the applicants are liable to provisions of 
Establishment code mentioned in V ol. 1 and ii 
and other circulars and conditions, orders of Police 
service, igP circulars, Public administration 
circulars and financial Regulations and provisions 
thereof.
Note.– all applications, which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification, 
will be rejected and such applicants will not be 
notified. Travelling expenses will not be paid to 
applicants who are called to appear for tests and 
interviews in respect of the above.
 c. d. 
WiCkramaratNe,   
 acting inspector general of Police.
02nd august, 2019.
Specimen Application form
01. Post applied for :–––––––––––.
02. applicant's name (with initials) :–––––––––––.
 (i) Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 Mailing address :–––––––––––.
 t elephone Number :–––––––––––. 
 Email address :–––––––––––.
 Relevant Police station of the Permanent address :                
–––––––––––.
04. gender (Male/female) :–––––––––––.
05. date of Birth: :–––––––––––.
 age as at .............. 2019 :
 y ears :––––––––.  Months :––––––––.  days :––––––––.
06. Marital status - Married/unmarried/Widowed :
  (i) spouse's occupation :–––––––––––.
  (ii) spouse's Place of occupation :–––––––––––.
07. Present Employment :-
  (i) Post held at present :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) grade of the present post :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Present working place :–––––––––––.
08. date of appointments :–––––––––––.
  (i) date of appointed of the present post :–––––––––.
  (ii) date of 1st appointment :–––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications (Details with Dates):-
  (i) Educational :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
  (iii) additional :–––––––––––.
10. Post held:-
   Post Working Place Period of Service
  (i) ................. ................. ................
  (ii) ................. ................. ................
  (iii) ................. ................. ................
  (iv) ................. ................. ................
  (v) ................. ................. ................ 
  
11. Any other qualifications related to the post:- 
i certify that the particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and accurate. i am also aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect, my service in the Police service in the event of 
my being appointed is liable to be terminated without any 
compensation.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :-
i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................
forwarding this applications is serving in the department of 
............................ and that he/she can be released for the 
new post if he/she is selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––,
 signature and stamp of the
 Head of the department.
date :––––––––––.
08–617
i

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2679
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Public Administration, Disaster management and Rural Economic Affairs
dEPaRtMENt of NatioNaL MusEuMs
OpeN COmpetitiVe examiNatiON fOr reCruitmeNt tO the pOSt Of aSSiStaNt direCtOr 
(ethNOlOgy) iN grade iii Of Sri laNka SCieNtifiC SerViCe - 2018 (2019)
 
aPPLicatioNs are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive  Examination due to be 
held to fill 01 post of Sri Lanka Scientific Service in Department of National Museums, on the order of the Public Service 
Commission. Applications prepared in line with the specimen application indicated at the end of this notification should 
be sent by registered post on or before the closing date of application to reach commissioner general of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examination Branch, department of Examination sri Lanka, P.o. Box 1503, colombo. "open 
Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Post of Assistant Director (Ethnology) Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientific 
service- 2018 (2019)" should be clearly indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. further, the name of the examination 
should be indicated in English in sinhala and tamil applications along with sinhala or tamil languages.
Serial
No.
Department to which the vacant post 
belongs
Designation No. of
Vacancies
01 department of National Museums assistant director (Ethnology) 01
• Closing date of application is 06/09/2019
Note: - No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. the loss which may 
occur by delaying the applications should be borne by the candidates themselves.
01. Method of Recruitment to the Service. – Recruitment shall be made on the results of a written examination 
and a general interview shall be held to verify the qualifications, no marks shall be allocated for the interview. 
candidates equal to the number of recruitment to the post shall be called for the general interview. Number of persons 
appointed and the effective date of application shall be determined on the orders of the Public service commission. 
Decision of the Public Service Commission on filling the vacancies, shall be the final.
02. Conditions of engaging in service :
 (i)  this post is permanent and pensionable. you are bound to the policy decisions taken by the government 
with regard to the pension scheme you are entitled to.
 (II) The officers appointed to the post are subjected to a probation period of 03 years and the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination should be passed within the period of said 03 years.
 (iii) as per the provision in the Public administration circular No. 01/2014 and consequent circulars the 
proficiency level of the other official language should be obtained within 05 years. Officers who joined 
the service in a non official language, should obtain the proficiency in one of the official languages within 
a period of 03 years and the relevant proficiency level in other official language should be acquired within 
five (05) years.
 (iV) the appointme nt is subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public service commission, the provisions 
in the service minute of the Scientific Service published on the Gazette No. 1877/27 dated 28th august 
2014, Establishment code of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, government financial 
regulations, other conditions of the commission and periodic circular arrangements by the government.
08. date of appointments :–––––––––––.
  (i) date of appointed of the present post :–––––––––.
  (ii) date of 1st appointment :–––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications (Details with Dates):-
  (i) Educational :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
  (iii) additional :–––––––––––.
10. Post held:-
   Post Working Place Period of Service
  (i) ................. ................. ................
  (ii) ................. ................. ................
  (iii) ................. ................. ................
  (iv) ................. ................. ................
  (v) ................. ................. ................ 
  
11. Any other qualifications related to the post:- 
i certify that the particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and accurate. i am also aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect, my service in the Police service in the event of 
my being appointed is liable to be terminated without any 
compensation.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :-
i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................
forwarding this applications is serving in the department of 
............................ and that he/she can be released for the 
new post if he/she is selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––,
 signature and stamp of the
 Head of the department.
date :––––––––––.
08–617
i

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2680
03. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335-8x1,630- 17x2,170 
- Rs. 110,895 (sL-1-2016) as per the Public administration circular 03/2016. (your salary is paid as per the provisions in 
schedule ii of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016)
04. Educational Qualifications :
Post Educational Qualifications
assistant director (Ethnology) shall have obtained a degree in History or archaeology with a first 
or second class Honours or any other higher degree.
05. Age Limit.– Minimum age of 22 years and maximum age of 28 years as at the closing date of application. 
Accordingly, the age requirement is satisfied by the individuals whose date of birth is fallen on or before 06.09.1997 and on 
or later 06.09.1991.
06. Physical Qualifications.– All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the 
island and to perform the duties of the post.
07. Other Qualifications :
 (i) applicants should be citizens of sri Lanka
 (ii) applicants should be of good character
 (iii) No applicant should be ordained in any religious sect
 (IV) Should have not appeared for open competitive examination of Sri Lanka Scientific Service more than two 
times
 (V) The qualifications required for the recruitment to the post should have been fulfilled in each and every way 
as at the closing date of applications mentioned in the notification calling for application.
08. 8.1 Written examination :
8.1.1 the examination shall be conducted by the commissioner general of Examinations :
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
1. intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2. general Question Paper 03 hours 100 40
8.1.2 Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
1. intelligence t est this paper which is designed to test the candidate's ability of critical reasoning, 
general intelligence and ability of decision making shall consist of 50 questions 
of multiple choices.
2. general Question 
paper
this is a question paper which aims at testing general knowledge and it shall be 
designed to test the understanding of the candidate on political, social, cultural 
and economic environment of sri Lanka, matters which are currently important 
in national and international aspects and national and international scientific 
and technical development. this question paper shall consist of two parts. the 
first part shall consist of questions for short answers and 25 marks shall be 
allocated. the second part shall consist of questions in structured nature. there 
are 05 questions and all should be answered. 75 Marks.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2681
8.2  Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments shall be 
made on the order of the marks obtained by the 
candidates who have obtained 40% or more to 
each question paper. The qualifications of the 
applicants shall be examined by an interview 
board approved by the Public service 
commission. No marks shall be allocated for 
the interview.
8.3 Results of the examination.– Results will be 
personally informed to those who appeared at 
the examination or published on the website 
www.results.exams.gov.lk
09. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) this examination will be held in sinhala, 
tamil and English media. candidates can 
appear for the examination in any language 
he/she prefers. candidates should answer all 
the questions in one language. candidates are 
not allowed to change the language medium 
applied initially. Every candidate should 
appear for all the question papers.
 (ii) the examination fee is Rs.l200/= this fee can 
be paid to any Post Office/ Sub Post Office or 
district/ divisional secretariat under the head 
20-03-02-13 of the commissioner general of 
Examination. one edge of the receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of 
the application so as not to be detached. it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
 (iii) under no circumstances the examination fee 
will be refunded and the money orders and 
stamps are not accepted as examination fees.
 (iV) this examination will be held in september 
2019 in colombo.
 (V) incomplete applications will be rejected 
without any notice.
Note:- the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the 
required qualifications to sit the examination.
 (Vi) the application should be prepared on paper 
of size 22cm X 29cm (a4) and titles 1.0 to 
2.9 appear on the first side of the paper and 
should be filled by the candidate in his/her 
own handwriting. applications that do not 
comply with the specimen and that are not 
completed in every aspect shall be rejected 
without notice. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with candidate. 
it is the responsibility of the candidate to make 
sure that the application form perfected by 
him/ her complies with the specimen given 
in the examination notice as otherwise the 
application may be rejected.
Note:- a duly perfected application can be downloaded 
from the official website of the Ministry of 
Public administration, Management and 
Law & order (www.pubad.gov.lk) for your 
convenience.
  Penalty for furnishing false information:- 
The candidate should be very careful to 
include the correct particulars in the appli-
cation. If it is found that any candidate is 
not eligible according to the rules and reg-
ulations of this examination his/her candi-
dature can be cancelled at any time before, 
during or after the examination.
 (Vii) Receipt of applications shall not be 
acknowledged. the commissioner-general of 
Examinations shall issue admission cards to 
all the candidates on the assumption that only 
the individuals who have satisfied the 
qualifications in the gazette notification have 
applied for the examination. a notice shall be 
published in the newspapers and the official 
website of department of Examinations as 
soon as admission cards are issued to 
applicants. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
steps shall be taken to inquire from 
organization and foreign Examination Branch 
of the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the notification. It would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at 
the time of calling the department of 
Examinations: i.e. certified photocopies of the 
application form receipt of register post and, in 
case of applicants outside colombo, letter of 
request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent. further, it 
would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt of 
registration of the application to prove any 
information requested by the department of 
Examinations.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2682
Note: No candidate will be allowed to enter the examination hall without the admission card. the admission card 
in which the signature of the candidate is attested should be presented to the supervisor on the date of 
commencement of the examination.
 (Viii) the commissioner general of examination reserves the right to postpone or cancel the examination on the 
approval of the Public service commission.
 (iX) candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner general of Examination 
for the purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by commissioner general of Examination for violation of these rules and regulations.
 (X) identity of the candidate .– a candidate shall be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, any of the following documents shall 
be accepted: -
 (i) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons:
 (ii) a  valid passport.
 (iii) a  valid driving License
N.B.– (a) No document or a copy should be attached to the application
 (b) applications of the candidates who fail to submit relevant documents at a time of informing to do so 
shall not be considered.
10. Officers who are serving in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service, Government Corporations should send 
their applications through their Heads of departments/ Heads of institutions. it is compulsory for the applicants to get their 
signatures attested before appearing at the examination. any applicant who is appearing for the examination through his/her 
institution should get his/her signature attested by the head of the institution. signature of the other applicants should have 
been attested by a Principal of a government school, grama Niladhari, a Justice of the Peace, commissioner for oaths, 
Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding a staff grade post in the 
Public service/ Provincial Public service, or a chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or chief Prelate or other clergy holding 
considerable position as the chief Priest of a religious place.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission
 secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration, 
 disaster Management and Rural Economic affairs.
24th July, 2019.
(For Office Use Only)
cd;sl fl!;=ld.dr fomd¾;fïka;=fõ Y%S ,xld úoHd;aul fiajfha iii fY%a‚fha iyldr wOHlaI ^udkj jxY úoHd& ;k;=r 
i|yd n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2018^2019&
OpeN COmpetitiVe examiNatiON fOr reCruitmeNt tO the pOSt Of aSSiStaNt direCtOr (ethNOlOgy) - grade iii Of Sri laNka 
SCieNtifiC SerViCe iN the departmeNt Of NatiONal muSeum -2018(2019)
1.0. Medium : - Language medium of the examination
sinhala 2
tamil 3
English 4
 (Write the relevant No in the cage)
 (application should be perfected in the language medium in which the candidate appears for the examination)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2683
2.0. Personal information :
   2.1. Name in full (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––––––.
    (ex : HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa) 
   2.2.  Name with initials at the end (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––––––.
    (ex. : Mr/ Mrs/ Miss. guNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K.) 
   2.3. Name in full (in sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––––.
   2.4. Permanent address (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––––––.
    (admission cards are posted to this address) 
   2.5.  Permanent address (in sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––––.
   2.6. Postal code :––––––––––––––.
   2.7. National identity card No. :
   2.8. t elephone No. :  Mobile
       Land
   2.9. sex : Male     0
     female     1 (Write the relevant No. in the cage) 
   2.10. Birthday:- y ear :                 Month :      date :
   2.11. age as at the closing date of the application : y ears :  Months :       days :
   2.12.  Marital status :  Married  1
       unmarried 2 (Write the relevant No in the cage) 
 2.13. E-mail address :––––––––––––––. 
 
  2.14. Ethnic group : sinhala -1,  tamil-2,   indian tamil - 3,   Muslim - 4,   other - 5
3.0. Qualifications:-
   3.1  date of graduation :––––––––––––––. 
    (Please read (4) of the notification to ensure you have this qualifications) :––––––––––––––.  
examination/ Degree Class Year Subjects University/ Institution
4.0. if a Public Employee :
   4.1 Name of the department/ institution :––––––––––––––.  
   4.2 Post held at present :––––––––––––––.  
   4.3 date of appointment :––––––––––––––.  
   4.4 Whether permanent or temporary :––––––––––––––.   
5.0. Affix the receipt so as not to be detached  :
 it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
 Receipt No. :––––––––––––––.  
 Office to which the Examination Fee was paid :––––––––––––––. 
 date :––––––––––––––. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.08.2019
2684
6.0. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of Law, if yes, give details  :––––––––––––––. 
7.0. Certification of the applicant :-
i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. I am aware and declare that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment without any compensation 
and that i abide by all the rules and regulations.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date  :––––––––––––––. 
8.0. attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................................... (full Name) who submits this application is known to 
me personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................................... and further the officer has 
paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the applications.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
date  :––––––––––––––. 
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature  :––––––––––––––. 
designation  :––––––––––––––. 
address  :––––––––––––––. 
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
9.0.  Report of the Head of the department/ institution :
Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................................. who submits this application is serving at this Ministry/ department 
as ....................................... and I recommend his/her application. Actions can be taken to release the officer upon selecting 
for this post.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the department. 
date  :––––––––––––––. 
Name :––––––––––––––. 
Post  :––––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
08–322
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.