

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  May  11,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 08th May, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
RAMBUKWELLA  SRI VIPASSI
DEVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  N O . 18  OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007
1
L. D. — O. (Inc.) 15/2004
[Certified on 08th May, 2007]
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  RAMBUKWELLA  SRI VIPASSI FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an association called and known as the
“Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation” has been
formed in Kandy, for the purpose of effectually fulfilling and
carrying out all objects and matters connected with the said
association according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Rambukwella Sri Vipassi
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 18  of 2007
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”)  and such other persons as
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Rambukwella Sri
Vipassi Development Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”), and by that name may sue and be sued in
all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to provide for the upliftment of the academic and
religious education of poor Buddhist children and
to improve their different skills ;
Incorporation of
the
Rambukwella
Sri  Vipassi
Development
Foundation.
Short title.
2—PL 001675— 3,350  (12 /2006)
Preamble.
General Objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007
2
(b) to render assistance to Buddhists in awarding
scholarships, maintaining dhamma schools,
maintaining libraries, centres for Buddhist
information and research and maintaining electronic
centres ;
(c) to provide economic relief needed to raise the living
standards of the Buddhists through the development
of their physical and mental well being ;
(d) to provide relief services for the destitute and to
maintain elders homes and rest rooms ;
(e) to initiate projects in order to create job
opportunities for the Buddhists who are unemployed
and to provide aid, facilities and other loan facilities
for that purpose ;
(f) to organize vocational training courses and to
develop skills in order to facilitate securing of
employment ;
(g) to render assistance to industries and to maintain a
pilgrims rest for the convenience of Buddhist
pilgrims who travel through the area to visit places
of traditional religious workshop ; and
(h) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects referred
to in the above paragraphs.
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall subject to the other provisions of this
Act and the rules mads under section, 5 of the Corporation,
vest in a Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the
Council”) consisting of the office bearers and such other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance herewith.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007
3
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection
(1), Venerable Rambukwella Vipassi Thero, the founder
President of the Foundation, shall be the first Chairman of
the Corporation.
(3) Where the post of Chairman becomes vacant after
Venerable Rambukwella Vipassi Thero, the second member
of the Membership Board would assume the post of Chairman,
and the next chief pupil of the Rambukwella Bhikkhu
generation, would become the second member of the
Membership Board.
(4) A Bhikkhu Member who disrobes would lose
membership, and such membership would pass on to the next
pupil of the Rambukwella Bhikkhu generation.
5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any meeting of the Corporation and by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, for the following matters :–
(a) the admission and classification of membership  and
the withdrawal and expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
or vacation of,  or removal from office of, office
bearers and their powers, functions, duties ; and
(c) the election of the members of the  Council and its
powers, functions, duties and the terms of office of
the members of the Council ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Council, the times, places,
notices, quorum and agenda of such meetings and
the conduct of business thereat ;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007
4
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in like manner, as a rule made
at  like meeting under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) The  Corporation shall have its own fund and the
financial year shall be from 1st January to 31st December of
the same year.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation, shall be deposited in a bank approved by
the Council to the credit of the Corporation and where the
Council so determines, the money may also be deposited in a
savings or in a current account.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted, and all debts due
to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the Foundation
on that date shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
8. (1)  The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor who shall be a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit of
Accounts.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007
5
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of them.
10. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules
of the Corporation who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any other
persons.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Rambukwella Sri Vipassi Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 18 of 2007
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  AVENUE , COLOMBO  05  before  15th  December
  each year in respect of the year following.