

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1903
1903
wxl 1"881 - 2014 iema;eïn¾ ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'09'19
No. 1,881 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 19, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1906
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1910
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th October, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th
September, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Land (Restriction on Alienation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 15, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1904
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1905
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1906
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th of October,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
01st September, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Horowpothana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Hurulu Palatha Division General, District Secretariat,
Anuradhapura.
09–705
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
POLONNARUWA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1907
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th of October,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th August, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Polonnaruwa W elikanda Post of Births and Deaths Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Welikanda Division General, District Secretariat,
Polonnaruwa.
09–563
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment to the Post of Producer of the Executive
Service Category (Departmental)
APPLICATIONS are called from candidates who have acquired the
qualifications stipulated in No. 02 of this notice to the post of
producer of the Executive Service Category (Departmental) at the
Department of Government Information.
1. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who obtain higher ranks
in a structured interview, which is held for all qualified candidates
by an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission,
will be recruited subject to the number of vacancies. The structured
interview will be held according to a marking scheme (cited under
No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission.
2. Qualifications :
(i) Professional Qualifications .– Be an officer in the post of
Technical Officer I at the Department of Government
Information.
(ii) Experience.– A minimum 05 years experience in the fields
of Video Shooting, Editing and Sound Technology at the
Department of Government Information.
(iii) Physical Qualifications .– Each candidate should be
physically and psychologically in good health to serve in
any part of the island.
(iv) Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should posses an excellent character ;
(c) Should have completed all qualifications required to
be appointed to this post before the closing date.
3. Conditions of the Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees
should contribute to Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) Officers will be appointed to this post on acting basis
for a period of one year. First Efficiency Bar Examination
should be passed within 03 years from the appointment

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1908
to the Grade III of the Executive Service Category of
the Department of Government Information as
stipulated in the recruitment procedure.
(iii) According to the Public Administration Circular
No. 7/2007 and its subsidiary circulars proficiency in
the second official language should be obtained within
05 years of appointment, Officers who entered the
service in a language other than an official language should
obtain the relevant proficiency within 03 years.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Government's Financial Regulations and other
Departmental Regulations.
4. Age.– Candidates should not be less than 21 years of age at
the closing date and the upper age limit is not applicable for
candidates who are currently in the Public Service.
Note :
(i) A Public Servant, for the purpose mentioned in the
articel 04 above, is (as defined in the 1st paragraph of
the Establishments Code) an officer in the Public Service
or in the Provincial Public Service, who has been
confirmed in his post at the closing date.
(ii) Unless any public officer has gained a satisfactory
service record within the recent five years prior to the
closing date or within the full service period, if it is less
than five years he will not be entitled to apply for this
post.
(iii) An officer is considered as having a satisfactory service
record, if only he has earned all the salary increments
within the recent five years prior to the closing date or
within the full service period if it is less than five years,
and if he was not imposed any punishment (except
advising) regarding any offence within the aforesaid
period.
(iv) Candidates in the Public Service should forward their
applications through their heads of the Department/
Institution.
5. Salary Scale.– The relevant salary scale according to the Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 is SL-1-2006, which is
mentioned below :
Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly).
6. Structured Examination :
(i) The interview will be conducted by an interview board
appointed by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Marks will be given in the interview as follows :
Fields considered in gra nting marks Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Experience 30
02. Additional professional Qualifications 30
03. Special skills 35
04. Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
7. Candidate's Identity. – Candidates who have forwarded
complete applications will be only called for the structured
interview.
Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should be
presented at the interview.
Following identity papers will be accepted to prove the identity
at the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid passport.
8. Method of Submitting Application :
(i) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach
the Secretary, Ministry of Mass Media and
Information, "Asidisi Medura", No. 163, Kirulapona
Avenue, Colombo 05 on or before 13.10.2014.
Applications received after the closing date will not be
accepted.
(ii) A specimen of the application form is demonstrated at
the end of this notice. Applications should be prepared
in an A4 sheet by including heading No. 01 to 02 in the
first page and heading No. 03 to 06 in the second page
and it should be filled in with candidate's own
handwriting.
(iii) Cite, "Recruitment to the Post of Producer of the
executive Service Category (Departmental) at the
Department of Government Information" on the top
left hand corner of the envelope, in which the
application form is enclosed.
(iv) The candidate's signature should be attested by a
Principal of a government school/Justice of the Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Notary
Public/a Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy or
Air Force, or a Government Officer serving in a
permanent post who receives an monthly consolidated
salary of Rs. 22,935.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1909
(v) Candidates in the public service or in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications
through their Heads of the Department.
(vi) Applications that do not comply with the specimen
form of application will be rejected. Complaints on
loss or delays will not be entertained.
9. Providing false information .– Your candidature will be
abolished if any detail in your application was found false or
incorrect before the recruitment. If any false or incorrect information
was revealed after the recruitment he/she will be dismissed subject
to related actions.
10. The final decision of any matter not covered by these
regulations will be made by the Public Service Commission.
Furthermore, final decision on filling the vacancies, leave them vacant
or filling a portion of vacancies will be made by the Public Service
Commission.
11. In case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
As per the directions of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Mass Media and Information.
Ministry of Mass Media and Information,
"Asidisi Medura", No. 163,
Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
14th August, 2014.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
R
ECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF PRODUCER OF THE EXECUTIVE
SERVICE CA TEGORY (DEPARTMENTAL) AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
1.0 Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block letters, starting initials
at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
E. g.– SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Name in full in English block letters :––––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Personal address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.5 Gender : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 Telephone Number (if available) :
3.0 Educational Qualifications :
University Degree Date of validation Subjects
of the degree
4.0 Professional Qualifications :
4.1 Productions :––––––––––––.
4.2 Script Writing :––––––––––––.
4.3 Video shooting/Lighting :––––––––––––.
4.4 Sounds :––––––––––––.
4.5 Editing :––––––––––––.
5.0 Experience :––––––––––––.
6.0 Certification of the applicant :
I, certify that the above information are true and correct.
–––––––––––––––,
Candidate's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
09–534

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1910
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 1, 2-I, 2-II
and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals Service – 2014
IT is hereby informed that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers
in Class 1, 2-I, 2-II and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service will be
held in January 2015 in Colombo.
02. The syllabus and other provisions applicable to this
examination is pubilshed in the Gazette Extra Ordinary  No.
1,086/26 dated 02.07.1999. The said Syllabus and other provisions
are given as follows for the convenience of the applicant. (Since the
provisions given by Section D of paragraph 27 of Sri Lanka Principals
Service Minute enabling the officers exceeded 45 years of age to be
released from Efficiency Bar Examination has been cancelled by the
Public Administration Circular No. 20/2001 dated 12.09.2001, all
officers in the Principals' Service should pass the Efficiency Bar
Examination.)
(a) Procedure of Examination : Following are subjects of the
Efficiency Bar Examination :
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the Establishment Code :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : A structured question paper - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
All questions should be answered.
Subject No. 02 : Financial Administration of Schools :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : A structured question paper - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
All questions should be answered.
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration and Monitoring :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
Part 2 : A structured question paper - Time 01 hour,
50 marks.
All questions should be answered.
Policies of the Ministry of Education, Organization and
Pefromance of Ministries including the Provincial Departments of
Education and Department and Institutions under the preview of
Ministry, School Administration, Relationship between the Schools
and Society, School Supervision as well as evaluation of performance
of teachers and planning at National, Divisional and School Sphere
Education Planning.
03. At least 40% or more than that should be scored for each
subject applied for by a candidate to obtain the pass.
04. Language medium of the examination.– Sinhala/Tamil/English
(The medium of language applied for will not allowed to be changed
later.)
(i) A candidate can sit the Examination in the Official
Language ;
or
(ii) A candidate cand sit for the examination in the medium
of language he/she sat for the Competitive Examination
for entering a Public Service or in relation to the officers
who have been recruited to the Public Service without a
Competitive Examination from the relevant candidate is
eligible to sit for this examination from the medium which
he/she has been qualified for entering the Public Service.
05. Any candidate revealed to have been appeared for the
examination in a medium not applicable to him/her is liable to have
his/her candidature cancelled.
06. The application should be prepared according to the format
given below, with Sections 1-6 to be appeared in the first page while
the balance in the next page and the relevant particulars should be
entered clearly in the candidates' own handwriting. Please note that
applications not in conformity with the model format given and are
incomplete will be rejected without notice. It would be helpful to
retain a photocopy of the completed application. Further, to that
the candidate should affirm whether the application submitted
conforms to the model format provided in the Examination Notice.
Please note that if it does not conform, it will be rejected.
When preparing the application either in Tamil or Sinhala, the
title of the examination should be appeared in English as well in
addition to the title in the above two languages.
07. Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations, and the candidates are bound to adhere to the rules
and regulations formulated by him to conduct the examination. The
relevant rules and regulations are given at the end of this notice.
08. Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the
“Commissioner General of Examinations. Organizations and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, P. O.
Box 1503, Colombo” on or before the 20th October 2014 through
the Principal/Divisional Director of Education/Zonal Director of
Education or the Additional Provincial Director of Education/
Provincial Director of Education or the Head of your service.
Applications received after the said date will be rejected.
09. The Department of Examinations will issue a press notice
immediately after Admissions for the Examination are issued. If
admissions are not duly received even after 2 or 3 days after the
notice of the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations in the manner
set out in the notice. Name in full of the applicant, address, number
of the National Identity Card and the name of the Examination should
be mentioned when informing such to the Department. If the candidate
is beyond Colombo, a Fax Number to which the Admission to be
sent too can be given along with the request mentioned above for

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1911
productivity. The issuance of an Admission to a candidate should
not be regarded as an acceptance that qualifications to take up the
Examination have been fulfilled.
10. Complaints (subsequently forwarded) of candidates who do
not fulfill the requirements set out in 08 above, will not be considered.
11. It is the responsibilty of candidates to establish their identity.
Only the following only will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
or
(ii) Valid passport.
12. Examination fees :
(a) Frees charged for this Examination will be refunded under
no circumstances nor it be allowed to be transferred to
any other Examination.
(b) No fee will be charged for the whole examination or for
a part thereof in case of the first attempt.
(c) The charged levied for each attempt thereafter is as
follows :
For the Full Examination Rs. 400
For One Subject Rs. 200
The full fee applicable to this examination should be paid at any
District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat in the Island to be credited
to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and the receipt should be firmly affixed at the proper
place on the application. Retaining a photocopy of the receipt will
be helpful.
13. The candidates are subject to the rules and regulations enforced
by the Commissioner General of Examination for conducting the
Examination. The candidate will have to bear any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in case if
these rules and regulations are violated.
14. In case of any contradiction prevailed in the notices published
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English media, the Sinhala medium
notification should be considered as the empowered/original
notification.
A
NURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte,
19th September, 2014.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 1, 2-I, 2-II AND
3 OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE - 2013
02. (Please forward the application by registered post to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign
Examination Branch Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, P. O.
Box 1503, Colombo, through the Principal/Divisional or Zonal
Director of Education/Additional Provincial Director of Education/
Provincial Director of Education, Name of the Examination should
be appeared on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
01. Language Medium for the Examination :
(Enter the Relevant Number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
02. ( a) Name with initials, with initials at the end. (With initials in
English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
(Eg.– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K.)
(b) Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––.
(iii) Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
04. Class/Grade in the Principals Service :–––––––––––.
School/Office :–––––––––––.
Provincial Department of Examinations/Zonal Education Office
:–––––––––––.
05. (i) National Identity Card Number :
(ii) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06. Subject applied for, with the Subject Number given in paragraph
02(a) of the Gazette Notice.
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the
Establishment  Code
Subject No. 02 : Financial Management in
Schools
Subject No. 03 : Education in the Administration
and Supervision
Write relevant subject Number/s in the cage/s

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'19
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2014
1912
07. State whether you have appeared for this examination previously.
If so state the Subject, Subject Number, Year and the Medium :
Subject Subject No. Year Medium
08. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying examination fee :
––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––.
Divisional/District Office :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
Affix receipt here
I hereby declare the particulars furnished above are accurate.
Further, I agree to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the Examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination
I certify that the candidate whose particulars are given above is
an officer in my School/office. I also certify that the applicant is
released from the examination fees and has affixed the receipt for
examination fee correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Divisional or Zonal
Director of Education/Additional Director of
Education/Provincial Director of Education.
(In case of a principal, please give
name of the school).
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Delete inapplicable words)
09–667
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.