

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1992$16 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 08 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'11'08
No. 1992/16  -  TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER 08,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette extraordinary will be published seperately.
PG 3306 —  (2017/03)
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institut e”), the Institute
has adopted changes to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards – (SLFRS & LKAS) with effect from 01 st January 2016, published herewith for the
purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Amendments shall be effective for financial statements
covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Sixteen.  Earlier application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
ARUNA ALWIS,
       Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
08
th November, 2016
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARDS CHANGES WITH EFFECT FROM 01ST 
JANUARY 2016 
 CONTENTS 
[1] Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements  
[2]  SLFRS 1  -  First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) 
[3]  SLFRS 2 -  Share-based Payment 
[4]  SLFRS 3  -  Business Combinations 
[5]  SLFRS 4  -  Insurance Contracts 
[6]  SLFRS 5  -  Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
[7]  SLFRS 6  -  Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources  
[8]  SLFRS 7 -  Financial Instruments: Disclosure  
[9]  SLFRS 8  - Operating Segments 
[10]   SLFRS 10  -  Consolidated Financial Statements 
[11]  SLFRS 11  -  Joint Arrangements 
[12]  SLFRS 12  -  Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
[13]  SLFRS 13 -  Fair Value Measurement 
[14]  SLFRS 14  -  Regulatory Deferral Accounts 
[15]  LKAS 1  -  Presentation of Financial Statements 
[16]  LKAS 2  -  Inventories 
[17]  LKAS 7  -  Statement of Cash Flows 
[18]  LKAS 8  -  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
[19]  LKAS 10 -  Events after the Reporting Period 
[20]  LKAS 11  -  Construction Contracts 
[21]  LKAS 12  - Income Taxes 
[22]  LKAS 16 -  Property, Plant & Equipment 
[23]  LKAS 17 - Leases 
[24]  LKAS 18  -  Revenue 
[25]  LKAS 19  -  Employee Benefits 
[26]  LKAS 20  -  Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance  
[27]  LKAS 21 -  The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
[28]  LKAS 23  -  Borrowing Costs 
[29]  LKAS 24  -  Related Party Disclosures 
[30]  LKAS 26  -  Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans 
[31]  LKAS 27 -  Separate Financial Statements 
[32]  LKAS 28  -  Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
[33]  LKAS 29  -  Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 
[34]  LKAS 32 -  Financial Instruments: Presentation 
[35]  LKAS 33  -  Earnings per Share 
[36]  LKAS 34  -  Interim Financial Reporting 
[37]  LKAS 36  -  Impairment of Assets 
[38]  LKAS 37  -  Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 
[39]  LKAS 38  -  Intangible Assets 
[40]  LKAS 39  -  Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
[41]  LKAS 40  -  Investment Property 
[42]  LKAS 41  -  Agriculture 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 1 -  Presentation of Financial Statements 
 
 
10(e) 
 
….notes, comprising significant accounting policies explanatory information;  
 
30A When applying this and other SLFRSs an entity shall decide, taking into consideration all relevant 
facts and circumstances, how it aggregates informati on in the financial statements, which include 
the notes. An entity shall not reduce the understandability of its financial statements by obscuring 
material information with immaterial information or by aggregating material items that have 
different natures or functions.  
 
31 Some SLFRSs specify information that is required to be included in the financial statements, which 
include the notes. An entity need not provide a specific disclosure required by an SLFRS if the 
information resulting from that disclosure is not material. This is the case even if the SLFRS contains 
a list of specific requirements or describes them as minimum requirements. An entity shall also 
consider whether to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirement s 
in SLFRS is insufficient to enable users of financial statements to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance. 
 
 
54 The statement of financial position shall include line items that present the following amounts: 
   
54(f) …biological  assets within the scope of LKAS 41 Agriculture;  
 
55 An entity shall present additional line items (including by disaggregating the line items listed 
in paragraph 54), heading s and subtotals in the  statement of financial position when such 
presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entity’s financial position.  
 
 
55A When an entity presents subtotals in accordance with paragraph 55, those subtotals shall:  
 
(a) be comprised of line items made up of amounts recognised and measured in accordance 
with SLFRS;  
 
(b) be presented and labelled in a manner that makes the line items that constitute the 
subtotal clear and understandable;  
 
(c) be consistent from period to period, in accordance with paragraph 45; and  
 
(d) not be displayed with more prominence than the subtotals and totals required in SLFRS 
for the statement of financial position.  
    
82A 
 
The other comprehensive income section shall present line items for the amounts for the period 
of:  
 
(a)  items of other comprehensive income (excluding amounts in paragraph (b)), classified by 
nature and grouped into those that, in accordance with other SLFRSs:  
(i)   
(i) will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and  
(ii) will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are 
met.  
   

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
(b)  the share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures accounted 
for using the equity method, separated into the share of items that, in accordance with 
other SLFRSs:  
(i)     will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and  
(ii)  will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met.      
85 
 
An entity shall present additional line items (including by disaggregating the line items listed 
in paragraph 82), headings and subtotals in the statement(s) presenting profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entity’s 
financial performance. 
 
85A When an entity presents subtotals in accordance with paragraph 85, those subtotals shall:  
(a)  be comprised of line items made up of amounts recognised and measured in accordance with 
SLFRS;  
(b)  be presented and labelled in a manner that makes the line items that constitute the subtotal 
clear and understandable;  
(c)  be consistent from period to period, in accordance with paragraph 45; and  
(d)  not be displayed with more prominence than the subtotals and totals required in SLFRS for 
the statement(s) presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income.  
    
85B An entity shall present the line items in the statement(s) presenting profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income that reconcile any subtotals presented in accordance with paragraph 85 with 
the subtotals or totals required in SLFRS for such statement(s).  
 
 
113 An entity shall, as far as practicable, present notes in a systematic manner. In determining a 
systematic manner, the entity shall consider the effect on the understandability and 
comparability of its financial statements.  An entity shall cross -reference each item in the 
statements of financial position and in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income, and in the statements of changes in equity and of cash flows to any 
related information in the notes.  
 
114 Examples of systematic ordering or grouping of the notes include:   
(a) giving prominence to the areas of its activities that the entity considers to be most relevant to 
an understanding of its financial performance and financial position, such as grouping together 
information about particular operating activities;  
 
(b) grouping together information about items measured similarly such as assets measured at fair 
value; or  
 
(c)  following the order of the line items in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive 
 income and the statement of financial position, such as:  
(i)  statement of compliance with SLFRSs (see paragraph 16);  

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
(ii)  significant accounting policies applied (see paragraph 117);  
(iii)  supporting information for items presented in the statements of financial position and 
   in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, and in the   
   statements of changes in equity and of cash flows, in the order in which each statement 
   and each line item is presented; and  
(iv)  other disclosures, including:  
(1) contingent liabilities (see LKAS 37) and unrecognised contractual commitments; 
and  
(2) non-financial disclosures, eg the entity’s financial risk management  objectives 
and policies (see SLFRS 7).  
 
115 [Deleted] 
 
117 An entity shall disclose its significant accounting policies comprising:  
 
119 In deciding whether a particular accounting policy should be disclosed, management considers 
whether disclosure would assist users in understanding how transactions, other events and conditions 
are reflected in reported financial performance and financial position. Each entity considers the 
nature of its operations and the policies that the users of its financial statements would expect to b e 
disclosed for that type of entity. Disclosure of particular accounting policies  is especially useful to 
users when those policies are selected from alternatives allowed in SLFRSs. An example is 
disclosure of whether an entity applies the fair value or co st model to its investment property (see 
LKAS 40 Investment Property ). Some SLFRSs specifically require disclosure of particular 
accounting policies, including choices made by management between different policies they allow. 
For example, LKAS 16 requires disclosure of the measurement bases used for classes of property, 
plant and equipment.  
 
120 [Deleted] 
122 An entity shall disclose, along with its  significant accounting policies or other notes, the 
judgements, apart from those involving estimations (see paragraph 125), that management has 
made in the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies and that have the most 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.  
 
139P Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in March 2015, amended paragraphs 10, 31, 
54–55, 82A, 85, 113–114, 117, 119 and 122, added paragraphs 30A, 55A and 85A–85B and deleted 
paragraphs 115 and 120. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 20 16. Earlier application is permitted. Entities are not required to disclose the 
information required by paragraphs 28–30 of LKAS 8 in relation to these amendments. 
 
 
  
LKAS 2 -  Inventories 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 7 -  Statement of Cash Flow 
No Changes 
 
 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
LKAS 8 -  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 10 -  Events after the Reporting Period 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 11 -  Construction Contracts 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 12 -  Income Taxes 
 
No Changes 
 
 
 
LKAS 16 -  Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
3 (b)  biological assets related to agricultural activity other than bearer plants (see LKAS 41 
Agriculture). This Standard applies to bearer plants but it does not apply to the produce on bearer 
plants. 
 
6 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
A bearer plant is a living plant that: 
(a)  is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce; 
(b)  is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and 
(c)  has a remote likelihood of bei ng sold as agricultural produce, except for incidental scrap 
 sales. 
 (Paragraphs 5A–5B of LKAS 41 elaborate on this definition of a bearer plant.) 
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised after deducting any accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration 
given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the 
amount attributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific 
requirements of other SLFRSs, eg SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment. 
Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual 
value. 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful 
life. 
Entity-specific value is the present value of the cash flows an entity expects to arise from the 
continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life o r expects to incur 
when settling a liability. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 Fair 
Value Measurement.) 
An impairment loss  is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount. 
 
22A Bearer plants are accounted for in the same way as self-constructed items of property, plant and 
equipment before they are in the location and condition necessary to be capable of operating in 
the manner intended by management. Consequently, references to ‘construction’ in this 
Standard should be read as covering activities that are necessary to cultivate the bearer plants 
before they are in the location and condition necessary to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management. 
 
37 (i) bearer plants. 
 
56 (c) technical or commercial obsolescence arising from changes or improvements in production, or 
from a change in the market de mand for the product or service output of the asset. Expected 
future reductions in the selling price of an item that was produced using an asset could indicate 
the expectation of technical or commercial obsolescence of the asset, which, in turn, might 
reflect a reduction of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.  
 
62A A depreciation method that is based on revenue that is generated by an activity that includes the 
use of an asset is not appropriate. The revenue generated by an activity that in cludes the use of 
an asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the economic benefits of the 
asset. For example, revenue is affected by other inputs and processes, selling activities and 
changes in sales volumes and prices. The price co mponent of revenue may be affected by 
inflation, which has no bearing upon the way in which an asset is consumed.  
 
80B In the reporting period when Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 
41) is first applied an entity need not disclose the quantitative information required by paragraph 
28(f) of LKAS 8 for the current period. However, an entity shall present the quantitative 
information required by paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8 for each prior period presented.  
 
80C An entity may elect to me asure an item of bearer plants at its fair value at the beginning of the 
earliest period presented in the financial statements for the reporting period in which the entity 
first applies Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 41) and use  that 
fair value as its deemed cost at that date. Any difference between the previous carrying amount 
and fair value shall be recognised in opening retained earnings at the beginning of the earliest 
period presented. 
 
81I  Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation (Amendments to LKAS 
16 and LKAS 38), issued in February 2016, amended paragraph 56 and added paragraph 62A. 
An entity shall apply those amendments prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2016. Ea rlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an 
earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
 
LKAS 20 -  Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance 
 
No Changes  
 
LKAS 21 -  The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates 
 
No Changes 
81K Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 41), issued in March 2015, 
amended paragraphs 3, 6 and 37 and added paragraphs 22A and 80B–80C. An entity shall apply 
those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application 
is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that 
fact. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively, in accordance with LKAS 8, 
except as specified in paragraph 80C. 
 
  
 
LKAS 17 -  Leases 
 
2 (c)   biological assets within the scope of LKAS 41 Agriculture held by lessees under finance 
leases; or 
(d)   biological assets within the scope of LKAS 41 provided by lessors under operating leases. 
 
 
 
LKAS 18 -  Revenue 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 19 -  Employee Benefits 
 
83 The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations (both funded and unfunded) shall 
be determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality 
corporate bonds. For currencies for which there is no deep market in such high quality corporate 
bonds, the market yields (at the end of the reporting period) on government bonds denominated 
in that currency  shall be used. The currency and term of the corporate bonds or government 
bonds shall be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post -employment benefit 
obligations. 
 
176 Adoption of IASB’s Annual Improvements 2012 –2014 Cycle, issued in September 2014, 
amended paragraph 83 and added paragraph 177. An entity shall apply that amendment for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity 
applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
177 An entity shall apply the amendment in paragraph 176 from the beginning of the earliest 
comparative period presented in the first financial statements in which the entity applies the 
amendment. Any initial adjustment arising from the application of the amendment shall be 
recognised in retained earnings at the beginning of that period. 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
LKAS 23 -  Borrowing Costs 
 
4 (a) a qualifying asset measured at fair value, for example a biological asset within the scope of 
LKAS 41 Agriculture; or 
 
7 (f) bearer plants. 
 
  
LKAS 24 -  Related Party Disclosures 
  
No Changes 
 
LKAS 26 -  Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 27 -  Separate Financial Statements 
 
4 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:  
Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which the assets, 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented 
as those of a single economic entity. 
Separate financial sta tements are those presented by an entity in which the entity could elect, 
subject to the requirements in this Standard, to account for its investments in subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates either at cost, in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, or using 
the equity method as described in LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.  
 
5 The following terms are defined in Appendix A of SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements , 
Appendix A of SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and paragraph 3 of LKAS 28: 
 Associate 
 control of an investee 
 equity method 
 group 
 investment entity 
 joint control 
 joint venture 
 joint venturer 
 parent 
 significant influence 
 subsidiary 
  
6 Separate financial statements are those presented in addition to consolidated fin ancial statements or in 
addition to the financial statements of an investor that does not have investments in subsidiaries but has 
investments in associates or joint ventures in which the investments in associates or joint ventures are 
required by LKAS 28 to be accounted for using the equity method, other than in the circumstances set 
out in paragraphs 8–8A.  
 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
7 The financial statements of an entity that does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venturer’s interest 
in a joint venture are not separate financial statements.  
 
10 When an entity prepares separate financial statements, it shall account for investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either: 
(a) at cost; 
(b) in accordance with SLFRS 9; or 
(c) using the equity method as described in LKAS 28. 
The entity shall apply the same accounting for each category of investments. Investments 
accounted for at cost or using the equity method shall be accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 
5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations when they are classified as held for 
sale or for distribution  (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale or for 
distribution). The measurement of investments accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 is not 
changed in such circumstances.  
 
11B When a parent ceases to be an investment entity, or becomes an investment entity, it shall account for 
the change from the date when the change in status occurred, as follows: 
 
(a)  when an entity ceases to be an investment entity, t he entity shall account for an investment in a 
subsidiary in accordance with paragraph 10. The date of the change of status shall be the deemed 
acquisition date. The fair value of the subsidiary at the deemed acquisition date shall represent the 
transferred deemed consideration when accounting for the investment in accordance with paragraph 
10. 
I. [deleted] 
 
II. [deleted] 
(b)  when an entity becomes an investment entity, it shall account for an investment in a subsidiary at 
fair value through profit or loss in acc ordance with SLFRS 9. The difference between the previous 
carrying amount of the subsidiary and its fair value at the date of the change of status of the investor 
shall be recognised as a gain or loss in profit or loss. 
 
The cumulative amount of any gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income in 
respect of those subsidiaries shall be treated as if the investment entity had disposed of those subsidiaries 
at the date of change in status.  
 
 
12 Dividends from a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate are recognised in the separate financial 
statements of an entity when the entity’s right to receive the dividend is established. The dividend 
is recognised in profit or loss unless the entity elects to use the equity method, in which case t he 
dividend is recognised as a reduction from the carrying amount of the investment.  
 
18J Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (Amendments to LKAS 27), issued in March 2015, 
amended paragraphs 4 –7, 10, 11B and 12. An entity shall apply those am endments for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016 retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those 
amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.  
 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
  
LKAS 28 - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
 
17 (d) The ultimate or any intermediate parent of the entity produces financial statements available for public 
use that comply with SLFRSs , in which sub sidiaries are consolidated or are measured at fair value 
through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 10.  
 
25 If an entity’s ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture is reduced, but the investment continues 
to be classified either as an a ssociate or a joint venture respectively , the entity shall reclassify to profit 
or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or lo ss would be required to be 
reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.  
  
27 A group’s share in an associate or a joint venture is the aggregate of the holdings in that associate or joint 
venture by the parent and its subsidiaries. The holdings of the group’s other associates or joint ventures 
are ignored for this purpose. When an associate or a joint venture has subsidiaries, associates or joint 
ventures, the profit or loss, other comprehensive income and net assets  taken into account in applying 
the equity method are those recognised in the associate’s or joint venture’s financial statements 
(including the associate’s or joint venture’s share of the profit or loss, other comprehensive income and 
net assets of its associates and joint ventures), after any adjustments necessary to give effect to uniform 
accounting policies (see paragraphs 35–36A).  
 
36 Except as described in paragraph 36A, if  an associate or a joint venture uses accounting policies other 
than those of  the entity for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, adjustments shall be 
made to make the associate’s or joint venture’s accounting policies conform to those of the entity when 
the associate’s or joint venture’s financial statements are used by the entity in applying the equity method.  
 
36A Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph 36, if an entity that is not itself an investment entity has 
an interest in an associate or joint venture that is an investment entity, the entity may, when applying the 
equity method, retain the fair value measurement applied by that investment entity associate or joint 
venture to the investment entity associate’s or joint venture’s interests in subsidiaries.  
 
45B Equity Method in Separate Financial Stat ements (Amendments to LKAS 27), issued in March 2015, 
amended paragraph 25. An entity shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2016 retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier 
period, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
45D Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments to SLFRS 10, SLFRS 12 and 
LKAS 28), is sued in March 2015, amended paragraphs 17, 27 and 36 and added paragraph 36A. An 
entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that 
fact. 
 
  
LKAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies 
 
No Changes 
 
 
 
LKAS 32 -  Financial Instruments: Presentation 
 
No Changes 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
LKAS 33 -  Earnings per Share 
 
No Changes 
 
LKAS 34 -  Interim Financial Reporting 
 
5(e) …notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information;  
 
16A In addition to disclosing significant events and transactions in accordance with paragraphs 15 –
15C, an entity shall include the following in formation, in the notes to its interim financial 
statements or elsewhere in the interim financial report. The following disclosures shall be given 
either in the interim financial statements or incorporated by cross -reference from the interim 
financial statements to some other statement (such as management commentary or risk report) 
that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the interim financial 
statements and at the same time. If users of the financial statements do not hav e access to the 
information incorporated by cross-reference on the same terms and at the same time, the interim 
financial report is incomplete. The information shall normally be reported on a financial year -to-
date basis.  
 
56 Adoption of IASB’s Annual Im provements 2012 –2014 Cycle , issued in September 2014, amended 
paragraph 16A. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the amendment for an earlier 
period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
57 Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in March 2015, amended paragraph 5. An entity 
shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application 
of that amendment is permitted. 
 
  
LKAS 36 -  Impairment of Assets 
 
2(g) biological assets related to agricultural activity within the scope of LKAS 41 Agriculture that are 
measured at fair value less costs to sell; 
 
  
LKAS 37 -  Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 
 
No Changes 
 
 
LKAS 38 -  Intangible Assets 
 
92 Given the history of rapid changes in technology, computer software and many other intangible assets 
are susceptible to technological obsolescence. Therefore, it will often be the case that their useful life is 
short. Expected future reductions in the selling price of an item that was produced using an intangible 
asset could indicate the expectation of technological or commercial obsolescence of the asset, which, in 
turn, might reflect a reduction of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.  
 
98A There is a rebuttable presumption that an amortisation method that is based on the revenue generated by 
an activity that includes the use of an intangible asset is inappropriate. The revenue generated by an 
activity that includes the use of an intangible asset typically reflects factors that are not directly linked to 
the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in the intangible asset. For example, revenue is 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
affected by other inputs and processes, selling activities and changes in sales volumes and prices. The 
price component of revenue may be affected by inflation, which ha s no bearing upon the way in which 
an asset is consumed. This presumption can be overcome only in the limited circumstances:  
(a) in which the intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue, as described in paragraph 98C; or 
(b) when it can be demons trated that revenue and the consumption of the economic benefits of the 
intangible asset are highly correlated. 
 
98B In choosing an appropriate amortisation method in accordance with paragraph 98, an entity could 
determine the predominant limiting factor that is inherent in the intangible asset. For example, the 
contract that sets out the entity’s rights over its use of an intangible asset might specify the entity’s use 
of the intangible asset as a predetermined number of years (ie time), as a number of units produced or as 
a fixed total amount of revenue to be generated. Identification of such a predominant limiting factor 
could serve as the starting point for the identification of the appropriate basis of amortisation, but another 
basis may be applied if it more closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of economic benefits. 
 
98C In the circumstance in which the predominant limiting factor that is inherent in an intangible asset is the 
achievement of a revenue threshold, the revenue to be gener ated can be an appropriate basis for 
amortisation. For example, an entity could acquire a concession to explore and extract gold from a gold 
mine. The expiry of the contract might be based on a fixed amount of total revenue to be generated from 
the extract ion (for example, a contract may allow the extraction of gold from the mine until total 
cumulative revenue from the sale of gold reaches Rs. 2 billion) and not be based on time or on the amount 
of gold extracted. In another example, the right to operate a toll road could be based on a fixed total 
amount of revenue to be generated from cumulative tolls charged (for example, a contract could allow 
operation of the toll road until the cumulative amount of tolls generated from operating the road reaches 
Rs. 100 million). In the case in which revenue has been established as the predominant limiting factor in 
the contract for the use of the intangible asset, the revenue that is to be generated might be an appropriate 
basis for amortising the intangible asset, prov ided that the contract specifies a fixed total amount of 
revenue to be generated on which amortisation is to be determined. 
 
130J Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation  (Amendments to LKAS 16 and 
LKAS 38), issued in February 2016, amended paragraphs 92 and 98 and added paragraphs 98A –98C. 
An entity shall apply those amendments prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall 
disclose that fact. 
 
  
LKAS 39 -  Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
 
88 Deleted 
 
LKAS 40 - Investment Property 
 
4 (a) biological assets related to agricultural activity (see LKAS 41 Agriculture and LKAS 16 Property, Plant 
and Equipment); and  
 
7 Investment property is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. Therefore, an investment 
property generates cash flows largely independently of the other assets held by an entity. This 
distinguishes investment property from owner-occupied property. The production or supply of goods or 
services (or the use of property for administrative purposes) generates cash flows that are attributable not 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
only to property, but also to other assets used in the producti on or supply process. LKAS 16 applies to 
owner-occupied property.  
 
  
LKAS 41 -  Agriculture 
 
1(a) biological assets, except for bearer plants;  
 
2(b) bearer plants related to agricultural activity (see LKAS 16). However, this Standard applies to the 
produce on those bearer plants.  
 
2 (c) government grants related to bearer plants (see LKAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and 
Disclosure of Government Assistance).  
 
3 This Standard is applied to agricultural produce, which is the harvested produce of the entity’s biological 
assets, at the point of harvest. Thereafter, LKAS 2 Inventories or another applicable Standard is applied. 
Accordingly, this Standard does not deal with the processing of agricultural produce after harvest; for 
example, the proc essing of grapes into wine by a vintner who has grown the grapes. While such 
processing may be a logical and natural extension of agricultural activity, and the events taking place 
may bear some similarity to biological transformation, such processing is n ot included within the 
definition of agricultural activity in this Standard.  
4 The table below provides examples of biological assets, agricultural produce, and products that are the 
result of processing after harvest:  
Biological assets Agricultural 
produce 
Products that are the result 
of processing after harvest 
Sheep Wool Yarn, carpet 
Trees in a timber 
plantation 
Felled trees Logs, lumber 
Dairy cattle Milk Cheese 
Pigs Carcass Sausages, cured hams 
Cotton plants Harvested cotton Thread, clothing 
Sugarcane Harvested cane Sugar 
Tobacco plants Picked leaves Cured tobacco 
Tea bushes Picked leaves Tea 
Grape vines Picked grapes Wine 
Fruit trees Picked fruit Processed fruit 
Oil palms Picked fruit Palm oil 
Rubber trees Harvested latex Rubber products 
Some plants, for example, tea bushes, grape vines, oil palms and rubber trees, 
usually meet the definition of a bearer plant and are within the scope of LKAS 
16.  However, the produce growing on bearer plants, for example, tea leaves, 
grapes, oil palm fruit and latex, is within the scope of LKAS 41. 
 
 
5 The  following  terms  are  used  in  this  Standard  with  the  meanings specified:  
 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Agricultural activity is the management by an entity of the biological transformation and harvest 
of biological assets for sale or for conversion into agricultural produce or into additional biological 
assets. 
 
Agricultural produce is the harvested produce of the entity’s biological assets. 
 
A bearer plant is a living plant that: 
 
(a) is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce; 
 
(b) is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and 
 
(c) has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except for incidental scrap sales. 
 
A biological asset is a living animal or plant.   
 
Biological transformation  comprises the processes of growth, degeneration, production, and 
procreation that cause qualitative or quantitative changes in a biological asset. 
 
Costs to sell are the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding 
finance costs and income taxes. 
 
A group of biological assets is an aggregation of similar living animals or plants. 
 
Harvest is the detachment of produce from a biological asset or the cessation of a biological asset’s 
life processes. 
 
5A The following are not bearer plants: 
(a)  plants cultivated to be harvested as agricultural produce (for example, trees grown for use as lumber); 
(b)  plants cultivated to produce agricultural produce when there is more than a remote likelihood  that 
the entity will also harve st and sell the plant as agricultural produce, other than as incidental scrap 
sales (for example, trees that are cultivated both for their fruit and their lumber); and  
(c)  annual crops (for example, maize and wheat).  
 
5B When bearer plants are no longer  used to bear produce they might be cut down and sold as scrap, for 
example, for use as firewood. Such incidental scrap sales would not prevent the plant from satisfying the 
definition of a bearer plant.  
 
5C Produce growing on bearer plants is a biological asset.  
 
8 [Deleted] 
 
24 (a) little biological transformation has taken place since initial cost incurrence (for example, for seedlings 
planted immediately prior to the end of a reporting period or newly acquired livestock); or  
 
44 Consumable biolog ical assets are those that are to be harvested as agricultural produce or sold as 
biological assets. Examples of consumable biological assets are livestock intended for the production of 
meat, livestock held for sale, fish in farms, crops such as maize and wheat, produce on a bearer plant and 
trees being grown for lumber. Bearer biological assets are those other than consumable biological assets; 
for example, livestock from which milk is produced and fruit trees from which fruit is harvested. Bearer 
biological assets are not agricultural produce but, rather, are held to bear produce.  
 
62 Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 41), issued in March 2015, amended 
paragraphs 1 –5, 8, 24 and 44 and added paragraphs 5A –5C and 63. An entity sha ll apply those 
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. An entity shall apply 
those amendments retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8. 
 
63 In the reporting period when Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 41) is 
first applied an entity need not disclose the quantitative information required by paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 
8 for the curren t period. However, an entity shall present the quantitative information required by 
paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8 for each prior period presented. 
 
 
SLFRS 1 -  First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 
 
39V SLFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts, issued in June 2014, amendment for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2016.amended paragraph D8B. An entity shall apply that Earlier application is 
permitted. If an entity applies SLFRS 14 for an earlier period, the amendment shall be applied f or that 
earlier period. 
 
39W Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (Amendments to SLFRS 11), issued in 
March 2015, amended paragraph C5. An entity shall apply that amendment in annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2016. If  an entity applies related amendments to SLFRS 11 from Accounting for 
Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (Amendments to SLFRS 11) in an earlier period, the 
amendment to paragraph C5 shall be applied in that earlier period. 
 
39Z Equity Method in  Separate Financial Statements (Amendments to LKAS 27), issued in March 2015, 
amended paragraph D14 and added paragraph D15A. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those 
amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
39AA Adoption of IASB’s Annual Improvements 2012 –2014 Cycle, issued in September 2014, added 
paragraph E4A. An entity shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall 
disclose that fact. 
 
C5 The exemption for past business combinations also applies to past acquisitions of investment s in 
associates, interests in joint ventures and interests in joint operations in which the activity of the joint 
operation constitutes a business, as defined in SLFRS 3. Furthermore, the date selected for paragraph C1 
applies equally for all such acquisitions. 
 
D8B Some entities hold items of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets that are used, or were 
previously used, in operations subject to rate regulation. The carrying amount of such items might include 
amounts that were determined under previous GAAP but do not qualify for capitalisation in accordance 
with SLFRSs. If this is the case, a first-time adopter may elect to use the previous GAAP carrying amount 
of such an item at the date of transition to SLFRSs as deemed cost. If an entity applies this exemption to 
an item, it need not apply it to all items. At the date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity shall test for 
impairment in accordance with LKAS 36 each item for which this exemption is used. For the purposes 
of this paragraph, operation s are subject to rate regulation if they are governed by a framework for 
establishing the prices that  can be charged to customers for goods or services and that framework is 
subject to oversight and/or approval by a rate regulator (as defined in SLFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral 
Accounts). 
 
D 14 (c) using the equity method as described in LKAS 28. 
D15A If a first-time adopter accounts for such an investment using the equity method procedures as described 
in LKAS 28: 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
(a)  the first -time adopter applies the exe mption for past business combinations (Appendix C) to the 
 acquisition of the investment.   
(b)  if the entity becomes a first -time adopter for its separate financial statements earlier than for its 
consolidated financial statements, and 
(i) later than its parent, the entity shall apply paragraph D16 in its separate financial statements.  
   
(ii) later than its subsidiary, the entity shall apply paragraph D17 in its separate financial 
 statements. 
 
E4A A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in paragraph 44AA of SLFRS 7. 
 
 
SLFRS 2 -  Share-based Payment  
 
No changes 
 
SLFRS 3 -  Business Combinations 
 
No Changes 
 
 
SLFRS 4 -  Insurance Contracts 
 
No changes  
 
 
SLFRS 5 -  Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
 
Heading Changes to a plan of sale or to a plan of distribution to owners  
 
26 If an entity has classified an asset (or disposal group) as held for sale or as held for distribution 
to owners, but the criteria in paragraphs 7 –9 (for held for sale) or in paragraph 12A (for held 
for distribution to owners) are no longer met, the entity shall cease to classify the asset (or 
disposal group) as held for sale or held for distribution to owners (respectively). In such cases 
an entity shall follow the guidance in paragraphs 27–29 to account for this change except when 
paragraph 26A applies. 
 
26A If an entity reclassifies an asset (or disposal group) directly from being held for sale to being 
held for distribution to owners, or directly from being held for distribution to owners to being 
held for sale, then the change in classification is considered a continuation of the original plan 
of disposal. The entity: 
(a)  shall not follow the guidance in paragraphs 27 –29 to account for this change. The entity 
 shall apply the classification, presentation and measurement requirements in this SLFRS 
 that are applicable to the new method of disposal. 
(b)   shall measure the non-current asset (or disposal group) by following the requirements in 
 paragraph 15 (if reclassified as held for sale) or 15A (if reclassified as held for distribution 
 to owners) and recognise any reduction or increase in the fair value less costs to sell/costs 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
 to distribute of the non-current asset (or disposal group) by following the requirements in 
 paragraphs 20–25. 
(c)   shall not change the date of classification in accordance with paragraphs 8 and 12A. This 
 does not preclude an extension of the period required to complete a sale or a distribution 
 to owners if the conditions in paragraph 9 are met.  
 
27 The entity shall measure a non-current asset (or disposal group) that ceases to be classified as 
held for sale or as held for distribution to owners (or ceases to be included in a disposal group 
classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners) at the lower of: 
(a)   its carrying amount before the asset (or disposal group) was classified as held for sale or 
 as held for distribution to owners,  adjusted for any depreciation, amortisation or 
 revaluations that would have been recognised had the asse t (or disposal group) not been 
 classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners, and 
(b)  its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell or distribute. 
 
28 The entity shall include any required adjustment to the carrying amount of a non-current asset 
that ceases to be classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners in profit or loss 
from continuing operations in the period in which the criteria in paragraphs 7 –9 or 12A, 
respectively, are no longer met. Financial statements for the periods since classification as held 
for sale or as held for distribution to owners shall be amended accordingly if the disposal group 
or non-current asset that ceases to be classified as held for sale or as held for d istribution to 
owners is a subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture, associate, or a portion of an interest in a 
joint venture or an associate. The entity shall present that adjustment in the same caption in 
the statement of comprehensive income used to present a gain or loss, if any, recognised in 
accordance with paragraph 37.  
 
29  If an entity removes an individual asset or liability from a disposal group classified as held 
for sale, the remaining assets and liabilities of the disposal group to be sol d shall continue to 
be measured as a group only if the group meets the criteria in paragraphs 7 –9. If an entity 
removes an individual asset or liability from a disposal group classified as held for distribution 
to owners, the remaining assets and liabiliti es of the disposal group to be distributed shall 
continue to be measured as a group only if the group meets the criteria in paragraph 12A. 
Otherwise, the remaining non-current assets of the group that individually meet the criteria to 
be classified as held  for sale (or as held for distribution to owners)  shall be measured 
individually at the lower of their carrying amounts and fair values less costs to sell (or costs to 
distribute) at that date. Any non -current assets that do not meet the criteria for held for sale 
shall cease to be classified as held for sale in accordance with paragraph 26. Any non-current 
assets that do not meet the criteria for held for distribution to owners shall cease to be classified 
as held for distribution to owners in accordance with paragraph 26.  
 
44L Adoption of IASB’s Annual Improvements  2012 –2014 Cycle , issued in September 2014, 
amended paragraphs 26–29 and added paragraph 26A. An entity shall apply those amendments 
prospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies , Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors to changes in a method of disposal that occur in annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those 
amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
 
SLFRS 6 -  Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources 
 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
No changes  
 
SLFRS 7 -  Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Appendix B 
 
21 In accordance with paragraph 117 of LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, an entity 
discloses its significant accounting policies comprising the measurement basis (or bases) used 
in preparing the financial statements and the other accounting policies used that are relevant 
to an understanding of the financial statements. 
 
44R Disclosures—Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to SLFRS 
7), issued in 2014, added paragraphs 13A –13F and B40 –B53. An entity shall apply those 
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after1 January 2014. An entity shall provide 
those amendments retrospectively. 
44AA Adoption of IASB’s Annual Improvements 2012 –2014 Cycle, issued in September 2014, 
amended paragraphs 44R and B30 and added paragraph B30A. An entity shall apply those 
amendments retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8  Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, 
except that an entity need not apply the amendments to paragraphs B30 and B30A for any 
period presented that begins before the annual perio d for which the entity first applies those 
amendments. Earlier application of the amendments to paragraphs 44R, B30 and B30A is 
permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
44BB Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in March 2015, amended paragraphs 
21 and B5. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2016. Earlier application of those amendments is permitted. 
 
B5  (g)  when the terms of financial assets that would otherwise be past due or impaired have been 
renegotiated, the accounting policy for financial assets that are the subject of renegotiated 
terms.  
 
Paragraph 122 of LKAS 1 also requires entities to disclose, along with its significant 
accounting policies or other notes, the judgements, apart from those involving estimations, 
that management has made in the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies and that 
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. 
 
B30 An entity does not have a continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset if, as part of 
the transfer, it neither retains any of the contractual rights or obligations inherent in the 
transferred financial asset nor acquires any new contractual rights or obligations relating to the 
transferred financial asset. An entity does not have continuing involvement in a transferred 
financial asset if it has neither an interest in the future performance of the transferred financial 
asset nor a responsibility under any circumstances to make payments in respect of the 
transferred financial asset in the future. The term ‘payment’ in this context does not include 
cash flows of the transferred financial asset that an entity collects and is required to remit to 
the transferee.  
 
B30A When an entity transfers a financial asset, the entity may retain the right to service that 
financial asset for a fee that is included in, for example, a servicing contract. The entity 
assesses the servicing contract in accordance with the guidance in paragraphs 42C and B30 to 
decide whether the entity has continuing involvement as a result of the servicing contract for 
the purposes of the disclosure requirements. For example, a servicer will have continuing 
involvement in the transferred financial asset for the purposes of the disclosure requirements 
if the servicing fee is dependent on the amount or timing of the cash flows collected from the 
transferred financial asset. Similarly, a servicer has continuing i nvolvement for the purposes 
of the disclosure requirements if a fixed fee would not be paid in full because of non -

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     21A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
performance of the transferred financial asset. In these examples, the servicer has an interest 
in the future performance of the transferred financial asset. This assessment is independent of 
whether the fee to be received is expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing 
the servicing. 
 
  
SLFRS 8 -  Operating Segments 
 
No Changes 
 
SLFRS 10 -  Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
4 (a) (iv) its ultimate or any intermediate parent produces financial statements  that are available for 
public use and comply with SLFRSs, in which subsidiaries are consolidated or are measured 
at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with this SLFRS.  
 
4 (b) Deleted 
 
4 (c) Deleted 
 
4A This SLFRS does not apply to post -employment benefit plans or other long -term employee 
benefit plans to which LKAS 19 Employee Benefits applies.  
 
4B A parent that is an investment entity shall not present consolidated financial statements if it is 
required, in accordance with paragraph 31 of this SLFRS, to measure all of its subsidiaries at 
fair value through profit or loss.  
 
32 Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph 31, if an investment entity has a subsidiary that 
is not itself an investment entity and whose main purpose and activities are providing services 
that relate to the investment entity’s investment activities (see paragraphs B85C –B85E), it 
shall consolidate that subsidiary in accordance with paragraphs 19–26 of this SLFRS and apply 
the requirements of SLFRS 3 to the acquisition of any such subsidiary.  
 
B85C An investment entity may provide investment -related services (eg investment advisory 
services, investment management, investment support  and administrative services), either 
directly or through a subsidiary, to third parties as well as to its investors, even if those 
activities are substantial to the entity, subject to the entity continuing to meet the definition of 
an investment entity.  
 
B85E If an investment entity has a subsidiary that is not itself an investment entity and whose main 
purpose and activities are providing investment -related services or activities that relate to the 
investment entity’s investment activities, such as those described in paragraphs B85C–B85D, 
to the entity or other parties, it shall consolidate that subsidiary in accordance with paragraph 
32. If the subsidiary that provides the investment -related services or activities is itself an 
investment entity, the inv estment entity parent shall measure that subsidiary at fair value 
through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 31.  
 
C1D Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments to SLFRS 10, 
SLFRS 12 and LKAS 28), issued in March 2015, amended paragraphs 4, 32, B85C, B85E and 
C2A and added paragraphs 4A–4B. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those 
amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
C2A Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 28 of LKAS 8, when this SLFRS is first 
applied, and, if later, when the Investment Entities and Investment Entities: Applying the 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Consolidation Exception amendments to  this SLFRS  are first applied, an entity need only 
present the quantitative information required by paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8 for the annual 
period immediately preceding the date of initial application of this SLFRS (the ‘immediately 
preceding period’). An  entity may also present this information for the current period or for 
earlier comparative periods, but is not required to do so.  
  
SLFRS 11 -  Joint Arrangements 
 
21A When an entity acquires an interest in a joint operation in which the activity of t he joint 
operation constitutes a business, as defined in SLFRS 3 Business Combinations, it shall apply, 
to the extent of its share in accordance with paragraph 20, all of the principles on business 
combinations accounting in SLFRS 3, and other SLFRSs, that  do not conflict with the 
guidance in this SLFRS and disclose the information that is required in those SLFRSs in 
relation to business combinations. This applies to the acquisition of both the initial interest and 
additional interests in a joint operation in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes 
a business. The accounting for the acquisition of an interest in such a joint operation is 
specified in paragraphs B33A–B33D. 
 
Heading Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations  
 
B33A When an entity acquires an interest in a joint operation in which the activity of the joint 
operation constitutes a business, as defined in SLFRS 3, it shall apply, to the extent of its share 
in accordance with paragraph 20, all of the principles on business combinations accounting in 
SLFRS 3, and other SLFRSs, that do not conflict with the guidance in this SLFRS and disclose 
the information required by those SLFRSs in relation to business combinations. The principles 
on business combinations accounti ng that do not conflict with the guidance in this SLFRS 
include but are not limited to: 
 
(a)  measuring identifiable assets and liabilities at fair value, other than items for which 
 exceptions are given in SLFRS 3 and other SLFRSs; 
 
(b)  recognising acquisition -related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs are 
 incurred and the services are received, with the exception that the costs to issue debt or 
 equity securities are recognised in accordance with LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
 Presentation and SLFRS 9;1 
 
(c)  recognising deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities that arise from the initial 
 recognition of assets or liabilities, except for deferred tax liabilities that arise from the 
 initial recognition of goodwill, as required by SLFRS 3 an d LKAS 12 Income Taxes for 
 business combinations; 
 
(d)  recognising the excess of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date 
 amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, if any, as goodwill; 
 and 
 
(e) testing for impairment a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated at least 
 annually, and whenever there is an indication that the unit may be impaired, as required 
 by LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets for goodwill acquired in a business combination.  
 
B33B Paragraphs 21A and B33A also apply to the formation of a joint operation if, and only if, an 
existing business, as defined in SLFRS 3, is contributed to the joint operation on its formation 
by one of the parties that participate in the joint operatio n. However, those paragraphs do not 
                                                           
 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
apply to the formation of a joint operation if all of the parties that participate in the joint 
operation only contribute assets or groups of assets that do not constitute businesses to the 
joint operation on its formation. 
B33C A joint operator might increase its interest in a joint operation in which the activity of the joint 
operation constitutes a business, as defined in SLFRS 3, by acquiring an additional interest in 
the joint operation. In such cases, previously he ld interests in the joint operation are not 
remeasured if the joint operator retains joint control. 
 
B33D Paragraphs 21A and B33A –B33C do not apply on the acquisition of an interest in a joint 
operation when the parties sharing joint control, including th e entity acquiring the interest in 
the joint operation, are under the common control of the same ultimate controlling party or 
parties both before and after the acquisition, and that control is not transitory.  
 
Footnote to 
Para 33A 
(b) 
If an entity applies these amendments but does not yet apply SLFRS 9, the reference in these 
amendments to SLFRS 9 shall be read as a reference to LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement. 
 
C1AA Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (Amendments to SLFRS 11), 
issued in March 2015, amended the heading after paragraph B33 and added paragraphs 21A, 
B33A–B33D and C14A and their related headings. An entity shall apply those amendments 
prospectively in annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is 
permitted. If an entity applies those amendments in an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
Heading Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations 
 
C14A Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests i n Joint Operations (Amendments to SLFRS 11), 
issued in March 2015, amended the heading after paragraph B33 and added paragraphs 21A, 
B33A–B33D, C1AA and their related headings. An entity shall apply those amendments 
prospectively for acquisitions of interests in joint operations in which the activities of the joint 
operations constitute businesses, as defined in SLFRS 3, for those acquisitions occurring from 
the beginning of the first period in which it applies those amendments. Consequently, amounts 
recognised for acquisitions of interests in joint operations occurring in prior periods shall not 
be adjusted. 
 
  
SLFRS 12 -  Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
 
6 (b) (ii) an investment entity that prepares financial statements in which all of its sub sidiaries are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 31 of SLFRS 10 
shall present the disclosures relating to investment entities required by this SLFRS.  
 
C1C Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (A mendments to SLFRS 10, 
SLFRS 12 and LKAS 28), issued in March 2015, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply 
that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. Earlier application 
is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact. 
 
  
SLFRS 13 -  Fair Value Measurement 
 
No changes 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard– SLFRS 14 
 
Regulatory Deferral Accounts 
CONTENTS                    paragraphs 
 
REGULATORY DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS 
 
 
OBJECTIVE       1 
 
SCOPE                        5 
 
RECOGNITION, MEASUREMENT, IMPAIRMENT AND DERECOGNITION      9 
 
PRESENTATION                    18 
 
DISCLOSURE      27 
 
APPENDICES   
A  Defined terms   
B  Application Guidance   
C  Effective date and transition   
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard– SLFRS 14 
Regulatory Deferral Accounts 
 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard SLFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts (SLFRS 14) is set out in paragraphs 1–36 and 
Appendices A–D. All the paragraphs have equal authority.  Paragraphs in bold type state the main principles. Terms 
defined in Appendix A are in italics the first time that they appear in the Standard. Definitions of other terms are given 
in the Glossary for Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The Standard  should be read in the context of its objective, the 
Preface to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and the Conceptual Framework for Financial  Reporting. LKAS 8 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors provides a basis  for selecting and applying 
accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance. 
Objective 
1 The objective of this Standard is to specify the financial reporting requirements  for regulatory deferral account 
balances that arise when an entity provides goods or services to customers at a price or rate that is subject to rate 
regulation. 
 
2 In meeting this objective, the Standard requires: 
 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
(a) limited changes to the accounting policies that were applied in accordance with previous generally accepted 
accounting principles(previous GAAP) for regulatory deferral account balances, which are primarily related 
to the presentation of these accounts; and 
 
(b) disclosures that: 
 
(i) identify and explain the amounts recognised in the entity’s financial statements that arise from rate 
regulation; and 
 
(ii) help users of the financial sta tements to understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash 
flows from any regulatory deferral account balances that are recognised. 
 
3 The requirements of this Standard permit an entity within its scope to continue to account for regulatory deferral 
account balances in its financial statements in accordance with its previous GAAP when it adopts SLFRS, subject 
to the limited changes referred to in paragraph 2 above. 
 
4 In addition, this Standard provides some exceptions to, or exemptions from, the requirements of other Standards. 
All specified requirements for reporting regulatory deferral account balances, and any exceptions to, or 
exemptions from, the requirements of other Standards that are related to those balances, are contained within this 
Standard instead of within those other Standards. 
 
Scope 
 
5 An entity is permitted to apply the requirements of this Standard in its first SLFRS financial statements if 
and only if it: 
 
(a) conducts rate-regulated activities; and 
 
(b) recognised amounts that qualify as regulatory deferral account balances in its financial statements 
in accordance with its previous GAAP. 
 
6 An entity shall apply the requirements of this Standard in its financial  statements for subsequent periods 
if and only if, in its first SLFRS financial statements, it recognised regulatory deferral account balances 
by electing to apply the requirements of this Standard. 
 
7 This Standard does not address other aspects of accounting by entities that are engaged in rate -regulated 
activities. By applying the re quirements in this Standard, any amounts that are permitted or required to be 
recognised as assets or liabilities in accordance with other Standards shall not be included within the amounts 
classified as regulatory deferral account balances. 
 
8  An entity that is within the scope of, and that elects to apply, this Standard shall apply all of its 
requirements to all regulatory deferral  account balances that arise from all of the entity’s rate -regulated 
activities. 
Recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition 
Temporary exemption from paragraph 11 of LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors 
 
9  An entity that has rate-regulated activities and that is within the scope of, and elects to apply, this Standard 
shall apply paragraphs 10 and 12 of LKAS8 when developing its accounting policies for the recognition, 
measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral  account balances. 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
10  Paragraphs 11 –12 of LKAS 8 specify sources of requirements and guidance that mana gement is required or 
permitted to consider in developing an accounting policy for an item, if no relevant Standard applies specifically 
to that item. This Standard exempts an entity from applying paragraph 11 of LKAS 8 to its accounting policies 
for the r ecognition, measurement, impairment and  derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. 
Consequently, entities that recognise regulatory deferral account balances, either as separate items or  as part of 
the carrying value of other assets and liabili ties, in accordance with  their previous GAAP, are permitted to 
continue to recognise those balances in accordance with this Standard through the exemption from paragraph 11 
of LKAS 8, subject to any presentation changes required by paragraphs 18 –19 of this Standard. 
 
Continuation of existing accounting policies 
11   
11. On initial application of this Standard, an entity shall continue to apply its previous GAAP accounting 
policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account 
balances, except for any changes permitted by paragraphs 13 –15. However, the presentation of such 
amounts shall comply with the presentation requirements of this Standard, which may require changes to 
the entity’s previous GAAP presentation policies (see paragraphs 18–19). 
 
12  An entity shall apply the policies established in accordance with paragraph 11 consistently in subsequent periods, 
except for any changes permitted by paragraphs 13–15. 
 
Changes in accounting policies 
 
13  An entity shall not change its accounting policies in order to start to recognise regulatory deferral account 
balances. An entity may only change its accounting policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment 
and derecognition of regulatory deferral account ba lances if the change makes the financial statements 
more relevant to the  economic decision-making needs of users and no less reliable, or more  reliable and 
no less relevant to those needs. An entity shall judge  relevance and reliability using the criteria in 
paragraph 10 of LKAS 8. 
 
14  This Standard does not exempt entities from applying paragraphs 10 or 14 –15 of LKAS 8 to changes in 
accounting policy. To justify changing its accounting policies for regulatory deferral account balances, an entity 
shall demonstrate that the change brings its financial statements closer to meeting the criteria in paragraph 10 of 
LKAS 8. However, the change does not need to achieve full compliance with those criteria for the recognition, 
measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. 
   
15  Paragraphs 13–14 apply both to changes made on initial application of this Standard and to changes made in 
subsequent reporting periods. 
 
Interaction with other Standards 
 
16  Any specific exception, exemp tion or additional requirements related to  the interaction of this Standard 
with other Standards are contained within this Standard (see paragraphs B7–B28). In the absence of any 
such exception, exemption or additional requirements, other Standards shall apply to regulatory deferral 
account balances in the same way as they apply to assets, liabilities, income and expenses that are 
recognised in accordance with other Standards. 
 
17  In some situations, another Standard might need to be applied to a regulator y deferral account balance that has 
been measured in accordance with an entity’s accounting policies that are established in accordance with 
paragraphs 11–12 in order to reflect that balance appropriately in the financial statements. For example, the entity 
might have rate -regulated activities in a foreign country for which the transactions and regulatory deferral 
account balances are denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the reporting  entity. The 
regulatory deferral account balances and the movements in those  balances are translated by applying LKAS 21 
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     27A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
Presentation 
 
Changes in presentation 
 
18  This Standard introduces presentation requirements, outlined in paragraphs20–26, for regulatory deferral account 
balances that are recognised in accordance with paragraphs 11–12. When this Standard is applied, the regulatory 
deferral account balances are recognised in the statement of financial  position in addition to the assets and 
liabilities that are recognised in  accordance with other Standards. These presentation requirements separate the  
impact of recognising regulatory deferral account balances from the financial  reporting requirements of other 
Standards. 
 
19  In addition to the item s that are required to be presented in the statement of financial position and in the 
statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income in accordance with LKAS 1 Presentation of 
Financial Statements, an entity applying this Standard shall present all regulatory deferral account balances and 
the movements in those balances in accordance with paragraphs 20–26. 
 
Classification of regulatory deferral account balances 
   
20  An entity shall present separate line items in the statement of financial  position for: 
 
(a) the total of all regulatory deferral account debit balances; and 
 
(b)  the total of all regulatory deferral account credit balances.  
   
21  When an entity presents current and non -current assets, and current and  non-current liabilities, as 
separate classifications in its statement of  financial position, it shall not classify the totals of regulatory 
deferral account balances as current or non -current. Instead, the separate line  items required by 
paragraph 20 shall be distinguished from the ass ets and liabilities that are presented in accordance with 
other Standards by the use of sub-totals, which are drawn before the regulatory deferral account balances 
are presented. 
Classification of movements in regulatory deferral account balances 
   
22  An entity shall present, in the other comprehensive income section of the  statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income, the net movement in all regulatory deferral account balances for the 
reporting period that relate to items recognised in oth er comprehensive income. Separate line items shall 
be used for the net movement related to items that, in accordance with other Standards:  
 
(a) will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; and 
 
(b)  will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met. 
   
23  An entity shall present a separate line item in the profit or loss section of the statement of profit or loss 
and other comprehensive income, or in the separate statement of profit or loss, for the remaining net 
movement in all regulatory deferral account balances for the reporting period, excluding movements that 
are not reflected in profit or loss, such as amounts acquired. This separate line item shall be distinguished 
from the income and expenses that are presented in accordance with other Standards by the use of a sub-
total, which is drawn before the net movement in regulatory deferral account balances. 
 
24  When an entity recognises a deferred tax asset or a deferred tax liability as a  result of recognising r egulatory 
deferral account balances, the entity shall present the resulting deferred tax asset (liability) and the related 
movement in  that deferred tax asset (liability) with the related regulatory deferral account  balances and 
movements in those balances , instead of within the total presented  in accordance with LKAS 12 Income Taxes 
for deferred tax assets (liabilities) and the tax expense (income) (see paragraphs B9–B12). 
 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
25  When an entity presents a discontinued operation or a disposal group in accorda nce with SLFRS 5 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the entity shall present any related regulatory deferral account 
balances and the  net movement in those balances, as applicable, with the regulatory deferral  account balances 
and movements in those balances, instead of within the  disposal groups or discontinued operations (see 
paragraphs B19–B22). 
 
26  When an entity presents earnings per share in accordance with LKAS 33 Earnings per Share , the entity shall 
present additional basic and diluted earnings per share, which are calculated using the earnings amounts required 
by LKAS 33 but excluding the movements in regulatory deferral account balances (see paragraphs B13–B14). 
Disclosure 
 Objective 
 
27  An entity that elects to apply this Standard shall disclose information that enables users to assess: 
 
(a) the nature of, and the risks associated with, the rate regulation that establishes the price(s) that the 
entity can charge customers for the goods or services it provides; and 
 
(b)  the effects of that rate regulation on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.  
28  If any of the disclosures set out in paragraphs 30–36 are not considered relevant to meet the objective in paragraph 
27, they may be omitted from the financial statements. If the disclosures provided in accordance with paragraphs 
30–36 are insufficient to meet the objective in paragraph 27, an entity shall disclose  additional information that 
is necessary to meet that objective. 
29  To meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 27, an entity shall consider all of the following: 
 
(a) the level of detail that is necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements; 
 
(b) how much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements; 
 
(c)  how much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake; and 
(d)  whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information 
disclosed. 
 
   Explanation of activities subject to rate regulation 
 
30  To help a user of the financial statements asse ss the nature of, and the risks  associated with, the entity’s rate -
regulated activities, an entity shall, for each type of rate-regulated activity, disclose: 
 
(a) a brief description of the nature and extent of the rate -regulated activity and the nature of the  regulatory 
rate-setting process; 
 
(b) the identity of the rate regulator(s). If the rate regulator is a related party (as defined in LKAS 24 Related 
Party Disclosures), the entity shall disclose that fact, together with an explanation of how it is related; 
 
(c) how the future recovery of each class (ie each type of cost or income) of regulatory deferral account debit 
balance or reversal of each class of regulatory deferral account credit balance is affected by risks and  
uncertainty, for example: 
 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     29A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
(i) demand risk (for example, changes in consumer attitudes, the availability of alternative sources of 
supply or the level of competition); 
 
(ii) regulatory risk (for example, the submission or approval of a rate -setting application or the entity’s 
assessment of the expected future regulatory actions); and 
 
(iii) other risks (for example, currency or other market risks). 
 
31  The disclosures required by paragraph 30 shall be given in the financial statements either directly in the notes or 
incorporated by cross -reference from the financi al statements to some other statement, such as a management  
commentary or risk report, that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the financial 
statements and at the same time. If the  information is not included in the fina ncial statements directly or 
incorporated by cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete. 
 
Explanation of recognised amounts 
 
32  An entity shall disclose the basis on which regulatory deferral account balances are recognised and derecognised, 
and how they are measured initially and  subsequently, including how regulatory deferral account balances are 
assessed for recoverability and how any impairment loss is allocated. 
 
33  For each type of rate -regulated activity, an entity shall disclose the following information for each class of 
regulatory deferral account balance: 
 
(a) a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and the end of the period, in a table  
unless another format is more appropriate. The  entity shall apply judgement in dec iding the level of detail 
necessary (see paragraphs 28–29), but the following components would usually be relevant: 
(i)  the amounts that have been recognised in the current period in the statement of financial position as 
regulatory deferral account balances; 
 
(ii)  the amounts that have been recognised in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive 
income relating to balances that have been recovered (sometimes described as  amortised) or reversed 
in the current period; and 
 
(iii)  other amo unts, separately identified, that affected the regulatory deferral account balances, such as 
impairments, items acquired or assumed in a business combination, items disposed of, or the  effects of 
changes in foreign exchange rates or discount rates; 
   
(b)  the rate of return or discount rate (including a zero rate or a range of rates, when applicable) used to reflect 
the time value of money that is applicable to each class of regulatory deferral account balance; and 
 
(c)  the remaining periods over which th e entity expects to recover (or amortise) the carrying amount of each 
class of regulatory deferral  account debit balance or to reverse each class of regulatory deferral  account 
credit balance. 
34  When rate regulation affects the amount and timing of an en tity’s income tax expense (income), the entity shall 
disclose the impact of the rate regulation on the amounts of current and deferred tax recognised. In addition, the 
entity shall separately disclose any regulatory deferral account balance that relates to  taxation and the related 
movement in that balance. 
35  When an entity provides disclosures in accordance with SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities for 
an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture  that has rate-regulated activities and for which regulatory 
deferral account balances are recognised in accordance with this Standard, the entity shall disclose the amounts 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
that are included for the regulatory deferral account debit  and credit balances and the net movement in those 
balances for the interests disclosed (see paragraphs B25–B28). 
36  When an entity concludes that a regulatory deferral account balance is no longer fully recoverable or reversible, 
it shall disclose that fact, the reason why it is not recoverable or reversible and the amount by which the regulatory 
deferral account balance has been reduced. 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. 
 
First SLFRS financial 
statements 
The first annual financial statements in which an entity adopts Sr i Lanka 
Accounting Standards (SLFRS), by an explicit  and unreserved statement of 
compliance with SLFRS. 
First-time adopter An entity that presents its first SLFRS financial statements. 
Previous GAAP The basis of accounting that a first-time adopter used immediately before 
adopting SLFRS. 
Rate-regulated 
activities 
An entity’s activities that are subject to rate regulation. 
Rate regulation A framework for establishing the prices that can be charged to  customers for 
goods or services and that framework is subject to oversight and/or approval by 
a rate regulator. 
Rate regulator An authorised body that is empowered by statute or regulation to  establish the 
rate or a range of rates that bind an entity. The rate regulator may be a third -
party body or a related  party of the entity, including the entity’s own governing 
board, if that body is required by statute or regulation to set rates both in the 
interest of the customers and to ensure the overall financial viability of the entity. 
Regulatory deferral 
account balance 
 
The balance of any expense (or income) account that would not be recognised as 
an asset or a liability in accordance with other  Standards, but that qualifies for 
deferral because it is included, or  is expected to be included, by the rate 
regulator in establishing the rate(s) that can be charged to customers. 
 
 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     31A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
Appendix B 
Application Guidance 
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. 
Rate-regulated activities 
B1  Historically, rate regulation applied to all activities of an entity. Howeve r, with acquisitions, diversification and 
deregulation, rate regulation may now apply to  only a portion of an entity’s activities, resulting in it having both 
regulated and non-regulated activities. This Standard applies only to the rate-regulated activities that are subject to 
statutory or regulatory restrictions through the  actions of a rate regulator, regardless of the type of entity or the 
industry to which it belongs. 
 
B2  An entity shall not apply this Standard to activities that are self -regulated, ie activities that are not subject to a 
pricing framework that is overseen and/or approved by a rate regulator. This does not prevent the entity from being 
eligible to apply this Standard when: 
   
(a)  the entity’s own governing body or a related party establishes rates both in the interest of the customers and to 
ensure the overall financial viability of the entity within a specified pricing framework; and 
   
(b)  the framework is subject to oversight and/or approval by an authorized body that is empowered by statute or 
regulation. 
   
Continuation of existing accounting policies 
 
B3  For the purposes of this Standard, a regulatory deferral account balance is  defined as the balance of any expense 
(or income) account that would not be recognised as an asset or  a liability in accordance with other Standards, but 
that qualifies for deferral because it is included, or is expected to be included, by the rate regulator in establishing 
the rate(s) that can be charged to customers. Some items of expense (income) may b e outside the regulated rate(s) 
because, for example, the amounts are not expected to be accepted by the rate regulator or because they are not 
within the scope of the rate regulation. Consequently, such an item is recognised as income or expense as incurred, 
unless another Standard permits or requires it to be included in the carrying amount of an asset or liability.  
B4   
B4 In some cases, other Standards explicitly prohibit an entity from recognising, in the statement of financial position, 
regulatory deferral account balances that might be recognised, either separately or included within other line items 
such as property, plant and equipment in accordance with previous GAAP accounting  policies. However, in 
accordance with paragraph 11 of this Standard, an  entity that elects to apply this Standard in its first SLFRS 
financial statements applies the exemption from paragraph 11 of LKAS 8 in order to continue to apply its previous 
GAAP accounting policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment, and derecognition of regulatory deferral 
account balances. Such accounting policies may include, for example, the following practices:  
 
(a)  recognising a regulatory deferral account debit balance when the entity  has the right, as a result of the actual 
or expected actions of the rate  regulator, to increase rates in future periods in order to recover its  allowable 
costs (ie the costs for which the regulated rate(s) is intended to provide recovery); 
 
(b) recognising, as a regulatory deferral account debit or credit balan ce, an amount that is equivalent to any loss 
or gain on the disposal or retirement of both items of property, plant and equipment and of  intangible assets, 
which is expected to be recovered or reversed through future rates; 
 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
(c)  recognising a regulatory deferral account credit balance when the entity is required, as a result of the actual or 
expected actions of the rate regulator, to decrease rates in future periods in order to reverse over-recoveries of 
allowable costs (ie amounts in excess of the recoverable amount specified by the rate regulator); and 
 
(d)  measuring regulatory deferral account balances on an undiscounted basis or on a discounted basis that uses an 
interest or discount rate specified by the rate regulator. 
   
B5  The following are examples of the types of costs that rate regulators might allow in rate -setting decisions and that 
an entity might, therefore, recognise in regulatory deferral account balances: 
 
(i)  volume or purchase price variances; 
 
(ii)  costs of approved ‘green energy’ in itiatives (in excess of amounts that are capitalised as part of the cost of 
property, plant and equipment in accordance with LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment); 
 
(iii)  non-directly-attributable overhead costs that are treated as capital costs for rate  regulation purposes (but are 
not permitted, in accordance with LKAS 16, to be included in the cost of an item of property, plant and  
equipment); 
 
(iv)  project cancellation costs; 
 
(v)  storm damage costs; and 
 
(vi)  deemed interest (including amounts allowed for funds that are used during construction that provide the entity 
with a return on the owner’s equity capital as well as borrowings). 
 
B6  Regulatory deferral account balances usually represent timing differences between the recognition of items of 
income or expenses for regulatory purposes and the recognition of those items for financial reporting purposes. 
When an entity changes an accounting policy on the first-time adoption of SLFRS or on the initial application of a 
new or revised Standard, new or revised timing differences may arise that create new or revised regulatory deferral 
account balances. The prohibition in paragraph 13 that prevents an entity from  changing its accounting policy in 
order to start to recognise regulatory deferral  account balances does not prohibit the recognition of the new or 
revised regulatory deferral account balances that are created because of other changes  in accounting policies 
required by SLFRS. This is because the recognition of  regulatory deferral account balance s for such timing 
differences would be consistent with the existing recognition policy applied in accordance with  paragraph 11 and 
would not represent the introduction of a new accounting  policy. Similarly, paragraph 13 does not prohibit the 
recognition of regulatory deferral account balances arising from timing differences that did not exist  immediately 
prior to the date of transition to SLFRS but are consistent with the  entity’s accounting policies established in 
accordance with paragraph 11 (for example, storm damage costs).    
Applicability of other Standards 
B7  An entity that is within the scope of, and that elects to apply, the requirements  of this Standard shall continue to 
apply its previous GAAP accounting policies for the recognition, measurement,  impairment and derecognition of 
regulatory deferral account balances. However, paragraphs 16 –17 state that, in some situations, other Standards 
might also need to be applied to regulatory deferral account balances in order to reflect them appropriately in  the 
financial statements. The following paragraphs outline how some other Standards  interact with the requirements 
of this Standard. In particular, the following paragraphs clarify specific exceptions to, and exemptions from, other 
Standards and additional presentation and disclosure requirements that are expected to be  applicable. 
 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     33A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
Application of LKAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period 
B8  An entity may need to use estimates and assumptions in the recognition and measurement of its regulatory deferral 
account balances. For events that occur between the end of the reporting period and the date when the financial 
statements are authorised for issue, the entity shall apply LKAS 10 to identify  whether those estimates and 
assumptions should be adjusted to reflect those events. 
  
Application of LKAS 12 Income Taxes 
B9  LKAS 12 requires, with certain limited exceptions, an entity to recognise a  deferred tax liability and (subject to 
certain conditions) a deferred tax asset for all temporary differences. A rate -regulated entity shall apply LKAS 12 
to all of its  activities, including its rate -regulated activities, to identify the amount of income tax that is to be 
recognised. 
B10 In some rate-regulatory schemes, the rate regulator permits or requires an entity to increase its future rates in order 
to recover some or all of the entity’s income  tax expense. In such circumstances, this might result in the entity 
recognising a regulatory deferral account balance in the statement of financial position  related to income t ax, in 
accordance with its accounting policies established in  accordance with paragraphs 11 –12. The recognition of this 
regulatory deferral account balance that relates to income tax might itself create an additional temporary difference 
for which a further deferred tax amount would be recognised. 
 
B11 Notwithstanding the presentation and disclosure requirements of LKAS 12, when  an entity recognises a deferred 
tax asset or a deferred tax liability as a result of  recognising regulatory deferral account balan ces, the entity shall 
not include that deferred tax amount within the total deferred tax asset (liability) balances. Instead, the entity shall 
present the deferred tax asset (liability) that arises as a result of recognising regulatory deferral account bal ances 
either: 
 
(a)  with the line items that are presented for the regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances; or 
 
(b)  as a separate line item alongside the related regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances.  
 
B12 Similarly, when an entity recognises the movement in a deferred tax asset (liability) that arises as a result of 
recognising regulatory deferral account balances, the entity shall not include the movement in that deferred tax 
amount within the tax expense ( income) line item that is presented in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income in accordance with LKAS 12.Instead, the entity shall present the movement in the deferred 
tax asset (liability) that arises as a result of recognising regulatory deferral account balances either: 
 
(a) with the line items that are presented in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for 
the movements in regulatory deferral account balances; or 
 
(b) as a separate line item alongside the related line items that are presented in the statement(s) of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income for the movements in regulatory deferral account balances. 
 
Application of LKAS 33 Earnings per Share 
B13Paragraph 66 of LKAS 33 requires some  entities to present, in the statement of  profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income, basic and diluted earnings per share both for profit or loss from continuing operations and 
profit or loss that is attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the p arent entity. In addition, paragraph 68 of 
LKAS 33 requires an entity that reports a discontinued operation to disclose the basic and diluted amounts per 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
share for the discontinued operation, either in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income or in 
the notes. 
B14 For each earnings per share amount presented in accordance with LKAS 33, an entity applying this Standard shall 
present additional basic and diluted earnings per share amounts that are calculated in the same way, except that 
those amounts shall exclude the net movement in the regulatory deferral account  balances. Consistent with the 
requirement in paragraph 73 of LKAS 33, an entity  shall present the earnings per share required by paragraph 26 
of this Standard with equal prominence to the earnings per share required by LKAS 33 for all periods presented. 
 Application of LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets 
 
B15Paragraphs 11 –12 require an entity to continue to apply its previous GAAP  accounting policies for the 
identification, recognition,  measurement and reversal of any impairment of its recognised regulatory deferral 
account balances. Consequently, LKAS 36 does not apply to the separate regulatory  deferral account balances 
recognised. 
B16 However, LKAS 36 might require an entity to perfor m an impairment test on a  cash-generating unit (CGU) that 
includes regulatory deferral account balances. This test might be required because the CGU contains goodwill, or 
because one or more of the impairment indicators described in LKAS 36 have been identified relating to the CGU. 
In such situations, paragraphs 74–79 of LKAS 36 contain requirements for identifying the recoverable amount and 
the carrying amount of a CGU. An entity shall apply those requirements to decide whether any of the  regulatory 
deferral account balances recognised are included in the carrying  amount of the CGU for the purpose of the 
impairment test. The remaining requirements of LKAS 36 shall then be applied to any impairment loss that is 
recognized as a result of this test. 
 Application of SLFRS 3 Business Combinations 
 
B17 The core principle of SLFRS 3 is that an acquirer of a business recognises the assets  acquired and the liabilities 
assumed at their acquisition -date fair values. SLFRS 3provides limited exceptions to its recognition  and 
measurement principles. Paragraph B18 of this Standard provides an additional exception. 
 
B18 Paragraphs 11–12 require an entity to continue to apply its previous GAAP accounting policies for the recognition, 
measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances. Consequently, if an entity 
acquires a business, it shall apply, in its consolidated financial statements,  its accounting policies established in 
accordance with paragraphs 11 –12 for the  recognition and measurement o f the acquiree’s regulatory deferral 
account balances at the date of acquisition. The acquiree’s regulatory deferral account balances shall be recognised 
in the consolidated financial statements of the acquirer in accordance with the acquirer’s policies, i rrespective of 
whether the acquire recognises those balances in its own financial statements. 
 
Application of SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
   
B19 Paragraphs 11 –12 require an entity to continue to apply its previous a ccounting policies for the recognition, 
measurement, impairment and derecognition of  regulatory deferral account balances. Consequently, the 
measurement requirements of SLFRS 5 shall not apply to the regulatory deferral account balances recognised. 
 
B20 Paragraph 33 of SLFRS 5 requires a single amount to be presented for discontinued operations in the statement(s) 
of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. Notwithstanding the requirements of that paragraph, when an 
entity that elects to apply this St andard presents a discontinued operation, it shall not include the movement in 
regulatory deferral account balances that arose from the rate -regulated activities of the discontinued operation 
within the line items that are required by paragraph 33 of SLFRS  5.Instead, the entity shall present the movement 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2016'11'08     35A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
  
in regulatory deferral account  balances that arose from the rate -regulated activities of the discontinued  operation 
either: 
 
(a) within the line item that is presented for movements in the regulatory deferral account balances related to profit 
or loss; or 
 
(b)  as a separate line item alongside the related line item that is presented for movements in the regulatory deferral 
account balances related to profit or loss. 
   
B21 Similarly, notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 38 of SLFRS 5, when an entity presents a disposal group, 
the entity shall not include the total of the  regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances that are 
part of the disposal group within the line items that are requ ired by paragraph 38 of SLFRS 5. Instead, the entity 
shall present the total of the regulatory deferral  account debit balances and credit balances that are part of the 
disposal group either: 
 
(a)  within the line items that are presented for the regulatory  deferral account debit balances and credit balances; 
or 
 
(b)  as separate line items alongside the other regulatory deferral account debit balances and credit balances.  
B22 If the entity chooses to include the regulatory deferral account balances and move ments in those balances that are 
related to the disposal group or discontinued operation within the related regulated deferral account line items,  it 
may be necessary to disclose them separately as part of the analysis of the  regulatory deferral account li ne items 
described by paragraph 33 of this Standard. 
Application of SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and LKAS 28 Investments in 
Associates and Joint Ventures 
B23   
B23 Paragraph 19 of SLFRS 10 requires that a “parent shall prepare consolidated  financial statements using uniform 
accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances”. Paragraph 8 of this Standard 
requires that an entity that is within the scope of, and elects to apply, this Standard shall apply all of its requirements 
to all regulatory deferral account balances arising from all of the entity’s rate-regulated activities. Consequently, if 
a parent recognises regulatory deferral account balances in its consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
this Standard, it shall apply the same accounting  policies to the regulatory deferral account balances arising in all 
of its subsidiaries. This shall apply irrespective of whether the subsidiaries recognize those balances in their own 
financial statements. 
 
B24 Similarly, paragraphs 35 –36 of LKAS 28 require that, in applying the equity method, an “entity’s financial 
statements shall be prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and events in similar 
circumstances”. Consequently, adjustme nts shall be made to make the associate’s or joint  venture’s accounting 
policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment and derecognition of regulatory deferral account balances 
conform to those of the investing entity in applying the equity method. 
 
Application of SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
 
B25 Paragraph 12(e) of SLFRS 12 requires an entity to disclose, for each of its  subsidiaries that have non-controlling 
interests that are material to the reporting entity, the profit or loss that was allocated to non-controlling interests of 
the subsidiary during the reporting period. An entity that recognizes regulatory deferral account balances in 
accordance with this Standard shall  disclose the net movement in regulatory deferral account  balances that is  
included within the amounts that are required to be disclosed by paragraph12(e) of SLFRS 12.  
 
B26 Paragraph 12(g) of SLFRS 12 requires an entity to disclose, for each of its subsidiaries that have non -controlling 
interests that are materi al to the reporting entity, summarised financial information about the subsidiary, as  

<!-- page 36 -->

36A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
specified in paragraph B10 of SLFRS 12. Similarly, paragraph 21(b) (ii) of SLFRS 12requires an entity to disclose, 
for each joint venture and associate that is  material to the reporting entity, summarised financial information as 
specified in paragraphs B12 –B13 of SLFRS 12. Paragraph B16 of SLFRS 12 specifies the  summary financial 
information that an entity is required to disclose for all other associates and joint ventures that are not individually 
material in accordance with paragraph 21(c) of SLFRS 12. 
 
B27 In addition to the information specified in paragraphs 12, 21, B10, B12–B13 and B16 of SLFRS 12, an entity that 
recognises regulatory deferral account balances in  accordance with this Standard shall also disclose the total 
regulatory deferral  account debit balance, the total regulatory deferral account credit balance and the net 
movements in those balances, split between amounts recognised in  profit or loss and amounts recognised in other 
comprehensive income, for each entity for which those SLFRS 12 disclosures are required. 
 
B28 Paragraph 19 of SLFRS 12 specifies the information that an entity is required to disclose when the entity recognises 
a gain or loss on losing control of a subsidiary, calculated in accordance with paragraph 25 of SLFRS 10. In addition 
to the information required by paragraph 19 of SLFRS 12, an entity that elects to apply this Standard shall disclose 
the portion of that gain or loss that is  attributable to derecognising regulatory deferral account balances in the 
former subsidiary at the date when control is lost. 
 
Appendix C 
Effective date and transition 
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. 
Effective date and transition 
Effective date 
C1  An entity shall apply this Standard if its first annual SLFRS financial statements  are for a period beginning on or 
after 1 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies this Standard in its first annual SLFRS 
financial statements for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 
 