

<!-- page 1 -->

1421 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2007
1421
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1423
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... -
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th December, 2007, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 14th December, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,529 _ 2007 ï…Ìæ´Ú 20 Éæ¾ł ´ò˝ÌàÀ”ł¾à…å _ 2007 .12.20
No. 1,529 – THURSDAY ,  DECEMBER 20, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2007
1422
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1423 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2007
Posts - Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  WILDLIFE CONSERV ATION
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who posses qualifications to fill the following vacant posts in the Department
of Wildlife Conservation.
(a) Management and financial Assistant
(b) Wildlife Ranger Grade III
(c) Wildlife Guard
02. Terms of Engagement.– The post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees should contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and
Orphans' pensions scheme.
03. Conditions of Service/Sections from 10 to 12 in chapter II of the Establishments code will be applicable.
04. General Qualifications :
(i) Should be not less than 18 and more than 45 years of age (The upper age limit will not apply to those who are already in
the Public Service)
(ii)Should be of excellent moral character and physically sound.
(iii) You should agree to serve in any part of the island depending on the exigencies of the service.
05. Educational, professional qualifications and salary scales :
Post Educational Qualifications Professional Qualifications Salary Group and Scale
Management and Should have obtained a B. Com. Degree Applicants should already be MN4 - 2006 Rs. 178,200 -
Financial Assistant or B. A. degree from a recognized employed the Government 14 x 2,200 -
university institution under the graduate Rs. 209,280
employments scheme in 2005
Wildlife Ranger Should have passed four subjects in not more Applicants should be 5 feet in MNI - 2006 Step 6
Grade III than two sittings at the G. C. E. (A/L) height and four inches and Rs. 162,240 - 1,440 x 9
examination with credit passes for Botany chest should be 32 inches 1,680 x 4 - Rs. 181,920
and Zoology. Should have passed three (depleted) only male
subjects in not more than two sittings at applicants will be recruited
the G. C. E. (A/L) examination under new
syllabus with a credit passes for Biology
Wildlife Guard Should have passed six subjects in not more Applicants should be 5 feet in PL2 - 2006 Step 7
than two sittings at the G. C. E. (O/L) height and four inches and Rs. 153,600 - 12 x
examination with credit passes for Sinhala/ chest should be 32 inches or 1,320 - Rs. 169,440
Tamil, Mathematics and one another above only male applicants
subject and six subjects should include will be recruited
Science or Agriculture
06. Method of Recruitment :
(a) Post of Management and Financial Assistant.– Applicants who score maximum marks on the results of structured interview
will be recruited to this post.
Note.– Examination fees should not be paid for this post.
(b) Post of Wildlife Ranger Grade III.
Written examination will be held for qualified candidates and those who score maximum marks will be subjected to physical
fitness test as per 1.5 ratio according to the existing number of vacancies. The candidates should compulsorily pass

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2007
1424
physical fitness test for the selection. The competitive examination and the interview will be only held in Colombo. This
examination will be conducted by the Department of Wildlife Conservation, Department of Examinations or Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration or any other recognized institution.
The candidates who pass the physical fitness test will be called for an interview and only their certificates will be checked
at the interview. Appointments will be made on the merit at the examination.
Scheme of Examination :
(i) One hour question paper on General Knowledge and knowledge of wildlife conservation - maximum marks 100
(Question paper consists of short multiple choice questions related to the subject. Structural essays and essays type
questions to test the knowledge of the candidates in relation to national, regional and worldwide organized environment of
wildlife conservation and their cultural, scientific, political and economic knowledge in the society.
(ii)Intelligence Test.– One -hour question paper - maximum marks 100
(It is a kind of puzzle presented in the form of words, figures and diagrams. Power of understanding is measured from the
inferences and responses of the candidates towards the puzzle and their ability to understand the relationship between the
time and space is evaluated. It is a question paper of short questions).
Note.– The applicants who have applied as per government gazette notification dated 17.02.2006 on the payment of
money should forward fresh application a stamps to the value of Rs. 250 should not be affixed.
(c) Post of Wildlife Guard.– All applicants will be required to appear for a competitive examination and on the results of this
examination qualified persons will be subjected to a structural interview will be recruited after perusal of their qualifications.
Written examination consists of 01 hour question paper on intelligence test. Maximum marks 100.
(It is a kind of puzzle presented in the form of words, figures and diagrams. Power of understanding is measured from the
inferences and responses of the candidates towards the puzzle and their ability to understand the relationship between the
time and space is evaluated.)
This examination will be conducted by the Department of Wildlife Conservation or Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration or the Department of Examination or such other recognized institutions. The candidates who score the
highest marks at the written examination will be summoned for a physical test as per 1:5 ratio. Those who get through this
physical fitness test will only be called for a structural interview. Recruitments will be made having taken into consideration
the aggregate marks of scored at the written examination and the structural interview.
07. How to apply :
7.1 Applications prepared using both sides of 'A4' size papers according to the specimen form in this notification should be
sent by registered post to reach the Director General, Department of Wildlife Conservation, No. 382, New Kandy Road,
Malabe before 15.01.2008. The post applicable for should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the applications and the application from the applicants employed in the government and other institutions
should be forwarded through the respective heads. In the event of applying for more than one post separate applications
for each post should be sent.
7.2 All applications not completed in every respect without basic qualifications and received after due date will be rejected and
whether such applications were received or rejected will not be informed.
7.3 It should be noted that this Department is not responsible for the delays or misplacements in the post.
7.4 The applicant's signature should be attested by a principal of a Government school, a Justice of the Peace, a Priest in charge
of a place of worship, Attorney-at-Law or Public Officer drawing an annual salary not less than Rs. 237,060.
08. Examination fees.– Stamps to the value of Rs. 250 for examination fees should be affixed on the relevant place of the
application and the stamps should be cancelled placing the signature of the applicants and the date.
09. Provisions of false information.– If any candidate is found to be disqualified at any time prior to the appointments his
candidature will be cancelled. If it is detected after appointment that he is disqualified or he has furnished false information deliberately or

<!-- page 5 -->

1425 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2007
suppressed correct information willfully he is liable to dismissed. The candidates who are unable to submit the originals of the certificates
at the interview will not be considered later.
10. The decision of the Director General of Wildlife Conservation will be final regarding problems answering out of matters relating
to the notification calling applications or other matters which are not covered by this notification.
W. A. D. A. WIJESOORIYA ,
Director General of Wildlife Conservation.
Department of Wildlife Conservation,
No. 382, New Kandy Road, Malabe,
10th December, 2007.
Specimen Application Form
WRITTEN EXAMINA TION/INTERVIEWS FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO
 POST OF ……………… IN THE DEPARTMENT OF WILDLIFE CONSERV ATION
01. (a) Name of Applicant with initials :–––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil  :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
(b) Full Name  :–––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil  :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
(c) Male/Female :–––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :–
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil  :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
(iii)District :–––––––––.
(iv) Telephone No. :–––––––––.
03. Medium in which the applicant appears for the Examination :
Sinhala - S
Tamil - T
English - E
04. (a) Date of Birth :–––––––––.
(b) Age as at closing date of applications :–––––––––.
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
06. Civil Status :–––––––––.
07. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (Relevant subjects should be clearly indicated as per the notification for recruitment to the post) :         –––
––––––.
09. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––.
10. Height :–––––––––. feet :–––––––––. inches
Chest :–––––––––. inches
11. If you have been committed of any offence in a court of law give particulars :–––––––––.
12. If presently employed give particulars :–––––––––.
13. Stamp Cage :
Applicants should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 250 and the stamps should be cancelled placing their signature and date. Stamps
should not be affixed one over another.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .12.20
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2007
1426
14. Declaration of Applicant :–
I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and blief.
In terms of the conditions of recruitment, I am aware that my candidature is liable to be cancelled if particulars given me are found to be
false before or after examination and I am liable to dismissed if detective after selection to the post.
–––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
A TTESTA TION  OF  THE  APPLICANT 'S SIGNATURE
I certify that this applicant is well known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence and this is his/her signature.
––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
C ERTIFICATION  OF  HEAD  OF  DEPARTMENT  OR  INSTITUTION
(Only for applicants employed in the Public/Provincial Public Service/State Corporations/Statutory boards)
I recommend and forward the application submitted by Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………… holds the post of ………… in this institution. I
certify that his/her work and conduct is satisfactory and no disciplinary action is pending and contemplated. He/she can/cannot be
released if he/she is selected to this post.
–––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
Head of Department/Institution.
Date :–––––––––.
12–790
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.