

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015' 05'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.05.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1913$5 - 2015 uehs ui 05 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2015'05'05
No. 1913/5  - TUESDAY ,  MAY  05,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.D.B 14/2014.
WAGES  BOARDS  ORDINANCE  (CHATER   136)
Notification under Section 6(2)
I, S. B. Navinna, the Minister of Labour, acting under the provisions of Section 6(1) of the Wages Board Ordinance (Chapter
136) read with Section 6(2) of the said Ordinance, do hereby make order applying the provisions of Part II of the said
Ordinance to the Trade of Rubber Cultivation and Raw Rubber processing, set out in the Schedule hereto.
The requirement under Section 7 of the said Ordinance for the publication of the intention to make such order under
Section 6(1), by notification published in the Gazette, together with a notice calling for objections, have been met with by
publishing the same in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1789/10 dated 17th December 2012.
S. B. N
A VINNA,
Minister of Labour.
Labour Secretariat,
Ministry of Labour,
Colombo 05,
29th  April, 2015.
SCHEDULE
Rubber Cultivation and Raw Rubber Processing Trade, comprised of the following :-
A. Raising and Maintenance of rubber plantation of 10 acres or over in extent ;
B. Manufacture of marketable Raw Rubber (This includes all types of lace rubber, scrap rubber, centrifugal latex and
Technically Specified Rubber - TSR).
The works of the following workers of the trades are also included :-

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015' 05'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.05.2015
(1) Workers engaged in Raising and Maintenance of Rubber plantation of 10 acres or over in extent, as -
(a) Harvesting Attendant
Workers engaged in tapping, collection of scrap and latex, carrying scrap and latex, assisting in weighing,
applying panel treatment, protecting rain guards, and application of chemicals.
(b) Sundry workers
Workers engaged in nursery activities including bud grafting, land cleaning, construction of roads and
bridges, fencing and marking boundaries, soil conservation work, construction and repairing of drains,
planting work, weeding (manual/chemical), manuering, marking and census work of trees, applying pesticides
and work relating to diseases, maintenance of trees, fixing of rain guards, applying panel treatment, general
cleaning and workers engaged as watchers and kanganis are also included.
(2) Workers engage in the Manufacture of Marketable Raw Rubber and employing in the following work :-
Transferring latex in to bulking tanks, fractionation, removal of froth and coagulation of latex, processing of
coagulum, operation and maintenance of raw rubber and latex processing machinery handling of wet and dry laces
and sheets sorting, grading and packing of all types of raw rubber, cleaning of all latex collecting utensils, tanks,
factory premises and transportation vehicles, operating and maintenance of smoke houses and drying towers,
boilers, processing of firewood, operation and maintenance of waste water treatment plant installed in rubber
estates/factories, analysis of latex quality parameters in centrifuged latex manufacture.
(3) Other workers engaged in the Rubber Cultivation and Raw Rubber Processing Trade and related work, and not
specified above in this Schedule are also covered under this trade.
(4) The workers belonging to the following categories are excluded -
Rubber maker, Engine driver, Lorry and van driver, Mechanic, Clerk, Conductor, Kanakapulle, Store Keeper, Dispenser,
Midwife, Bungalow servant, Dhoby, Barber, Teacher and Ward attendant.
05 -448
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.