

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2026$32 - 2017 cQ,s ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'07'06
No. 2026/32 - THURSDAY,  JULY  06, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A   PG 3598 — 107  (07/2017)
SRI  LANKA  LAND  RECLAMATION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  CORPORATION  ACT  No. 15  OF
1968 AS  AMENDED  BY  SRI  LANKA  LAND  RECLAMATION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION  (AMENDED)  ACT No. 35  OF  2006  AND  ACT  No.  52  OF  1982 AND
ACT  No.  27  OF  1976
Order under Section 2(b) 1
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 2(b) 1 of the Sri  Lanka  Land Reclamation  and  Development
Corporation  Act No. 15  of 1968  as  amended  by  Sri  Lanka  Land  Reclamation  and  Development Corporation
(amended)  Act No. 35  of  2006  and  Act  No.  52  of  1982 and  Act No.  27  of  1976, I, Patali Champika Ranawaka,
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development through this Order determined and declare, with the concurrence of the
subject Minister of Land that, areas described in schedules, R
1 - R38 situated in Ratnapura district of the Sabaragamuwa
Province to be an area of Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands for the purpose of this Act Below mentioned terms
and conditions prescribed by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation have to be adhered to in
carrying out any activity in this area.
P
ATALI C HAMPIKA  R ANAWAKA (M.P.),
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.
Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,
17th & 18th Floors, Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla,
28th June 2017.
TERMS   AND   CONDITIONS
1. The written approval of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation shall be obtained for
filling or developing a portion of land located within any of these declared areas through a request made, using and
application issued by the Corporation for that purpose.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
2A
2. The approval would be granted in terms of the Terms and Conditions recommended by the Planning Committee
comprising the officers of the Department of Agrarian Services, Urban Development Authority, Central Environment
Authority and following officers of Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation ; Chief Executive Officer/
General Manager, Additional General Manager, Deputy General Manager (Special Project), Deputy General Manager
(Lands/Marketing), Deputy General Manager (Research and Design), Deputy General Manager (Drainage and Reclamation)
Chief Legal Officer. (An Officer of the respective Local Authority, of which the land located will be called where necessary)
3. Accordingly in case where such approval is granted under any terms and conditions made by the Sri Lanka Land
Reclamation and Development Corporation, every individual who defauld to adhere such terms and conditions could be
convicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka land Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.
4. In case where the land proposed for development is a paddy land, the approval to be sought in terms of the
formal plans and recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation on the request
of the Commissioner General of Agrarian Services.
5. In case where the land proposed for development is not a paddy land, the Local Authority concerned shall
confirm whether the recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation to be
obtained for any sort of development activity related to land reclamation made within this declared area, prior to grant
approval.
6. The recommendations of the other institutions concerned have to be obtained for the respective development
purpose of the land proposed for development.
7. Any individual authorized by the Chief Executive Officer of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation for the activities stipulated in the Act, shall have the power to access the declared area and anyone who
disturb such access could be convicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Land Reclarmation and Development
Corporation Act.
8. Every individual who does not adhere to the terms and conditions published through this Gazette Notification
shall be guilty under the Sri Lanka and Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.
9. The terms and conditions presently imposed and the terms and conditions that will be imposed in this connection
in the future shall be adhered to.
S
ABARAGAMUW A P ROVINCE  - R ATHNAPURA D ISTRICT
SCHEDULE     R 1
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Eheliyagoda and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Eheliyagoda in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces and district boundary of Rathnapura and
Kegalle Districts.
East : Road from the District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts (from Wilegoda) to Kiriella.
South : Road from Kiriella to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces via Yatapawwa.
West : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.
SCHEDULE     R 2
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kuruwita and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
3A
East : Road from the District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts to Kuruwiya via Sudagala.
South : Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Kuruwita to Parakaduwa via Pussella.
West : Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Parakaduwa to Eheliyagoda, Road from Eheliyagoda to the
District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts (Wilegoda).
SCHEDULE        R 3
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita  and Eheliyagoda and the
Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita, Kiriella and Eheliyagoda in  Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province
and bounded as follows.
North : Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Eheliyagoda to Pussella via Parakaduwa.
East : Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Pussella to Kuruwita.
South : Kuruganga from Kuruwita bridge to Kurugammodara Bridge (Bridge in Rathnapura-Panadura Main
Road), Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Kurugammodara Bridge to Kiriella.
West : Road from Kiriella to Eheliyagoda via Hindurangala.
SCHEDULE        R 4
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita  and Rathnapura and the
Municipal Council limit of Rathnapura and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita, Kiriella and Rathnapura in
Rathnapura   District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Kuru Ganga from Owitagama to Kuruwita Bridge.
East : Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Kuruwita to Kalu Ganga  Bridge via Kahengama.
South : Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Kuru Ganga Bridge to Kuruganmodara Bridge via Dodampe.
West : Kuru Ganga from Kuruganmodara Bridge to Owitigama.
SCHEDULE        R 5
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita  and Rathnapura and the
Municipal Council limit of Rathnapura and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita and Rathnapura in Rathnapura
District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : District Boundary of Kegalle - Rathnapura Districts.
East : District Boundary of Kegalle - Rathnapura Districts and Rath Ganga.
South : Rath Ganga, Kalu Ganga, Rathnapura - Colombo Main Road from Godigamuwa Bridge to Rathnapura.
West : Rathnapura - Colombo Main Road from Rathnapura to Kuruwita via Kosgoda and Road From Kuruwita
to the District Boundary of Kegalle - Rathnapura Districts via Sudagala.
SCHEDULE        R 6
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita  and Ayagama and the
Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kiriella and Ayagama in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded
as follows.
North : Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces
to Kiriella via Epitawala.
East : Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Kiriella to Idangoda Road from Idangoda (from the Bridge over
Kalu  Ganga) to Ayagama via Singhalagama.
South : Road from Ayagama to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces via Gawaragiriya.
West : Provincial Bounday of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.
SCHEDUL ( Contd.)

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
4A
SCHEDULE        R 7
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kalawana and Ayagama and the
Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kalawana and Ayagama in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and
bounded as follows.
North : Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces to Ayagama via
Gawaragiriya.
East : Road from Ayagama to Kukulegama North via Pimbura.
South : Road from Kukulegama North to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamawa and Western Provinces
via Kukulegama South.
West : Provincial Bounday of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.
SCHEDULE        R 8
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Nivithigala, Kalawana, Rathnapura,
Pelmadulla  and Ayagama and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kiriella, Ayagama, Elapatha, Nivithigala, Kalawana,
Rathnapura and Pelmadulla in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Idangoda to Rathnapura Town via Dompe, Kalu Ganga Bridge.
East : Road from Rathnapura Town on Wewelkandura via Alupotha, Horangala, Pebotuwa.
South : Road from Wewelkandura to Kukulegama North.
West : Road from Kukulegama North to Idangoda via Ayagama, Singhalagoda.
SCHEDULE        R 9
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Pelmadulla and Nivithigala and the
Munucipal Council limit of Rathnapura  and the Divisional Secretariat Division of Elapatha, Pelmadulla and Nivithigala in
Ratnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Mudduwa to Rathnapura - Colombo Main Road (to Rathnapura), Rathnapura - Colombo
Main Road from Rathnapura to Thiriwanaketiya via Godigamuwa.
East : Road from Thiriwanaketiya to Nivithigala via Dombagammna.
South : Road from Nivithigala to Horangala via Pahala Karavita.
West : Road from Horangala to Mudduwa via Amuwala.
SCHEDULE        R 10
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura and the  Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Rathnapura in  Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Rath Ganga.
East : Road  from Rath Ganga to Gallella.
South : Road from Gallella to Rath Ganga Bridge.
West : Rath Ganga.
SCHEDULE        R 11
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura, Imbulpe and Balangoda
and the Urban Council limit of Balangoda  and the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rathnapura, Imbulpe and Balangoda
in  Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
5A
East : Road from the Provincial Boundary of the Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces to the Bridge over
Walawe Ganga via Udagama, Olugantota.
South : Road from the Bridge over Walawe Ganga to Gallella via Balangoda, Rassagala Alupotha.
West : Road from Gallella to Rath Ganga.
SCHEDULE        R12
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and  the  Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces.
East : Belihul Oya.
South : Road from Belihul Oya Bridge to Morahela via Samanala Wewa Bridge, Olugantota.
West : Road from Morahela to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces via Udagama,
Meddegama.
SCHEDULE        R 13
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and  the  Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
East : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from
the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces (from Marangahawela) to Halpe.
South : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Halpe to  Belihul Oya Bridge.
West : Belihul Oya.
SCHEDULE        R 14
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and  the  Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Pambahinna  to Marangahawela, Provincial Boundary of
Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
East : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
South : Mulgama Oya form the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces to Danduwankada..
West : Road from Danduwankada to Pambahinna via Kumbalgama.
SCHEDULE        R 15
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and the Urban Council
limit of Imbulpe and the  Divisional Secretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province
and bounded as follows.
North : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Samanala Wewa Bridge to Pambahinna   road from Pambahinna
to Kirimadehula.
East : Road from Kirimaduhela to Watawala via Mulgama.
South : Road from Watawala to Kirimetitenna via Bowaththa.
West : Road from Kirimetithenna to Balangoda, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Balangoda to
Samanalawewa Bridge via Rathmalawinna.
SCHEDUL ( Contd.)

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
6A
SCHEDULE        R 16
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura, Balangoda, Weligepola
and Pelmadulla and the Urban Council limit of Balangoda  and the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rathnapura, Balangoda,
Opanayake and Pelmadulla in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Amunuthenna to Meddekanda via Rassagala
East : Raod from Medde Kanda to Balangoda, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Balangoda to Ellepola
South : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Ellepola to Lellopitiya via Opanayake, Pelmadulla.
West : Road from Lellopitiya toAmunuthenna via Berenduwa, Bamagoda.
SCHEDULE        R 17
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura and Pelmadulla and
the Urban Council limit of Rathnapura and the  Divisional Secretary’s Division of Rathnapura and Pelmadulla  in Rathnapura
District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Malwala Junction to Amunuthenna via Gallella.
East : Road from Amunuthenna to Berenduwa via Banagoda.
South : Road from Beranduwa to Lellopitiya, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Lellopitiya to
Thiriwanaketiya.
West : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Thiriwanaketiya to the Bridge over Kalu Ganga and Kalu Ganga.
SCHEDULE        R 18
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Pelmadulla, Atakalampanna and
Nivithigala  and the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Nivithigala, Kahawaththa and Pelmadulla  in Rathnapura  District
of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Thiriwanaketiya to Pathakada via Lellopitiya.
East : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Pathakada to Pelmadulla, Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road
from Pelmadulla to Nugawela.
South : Road from Nugawela to Niwithigala via Watapotha.
West : Road from Niwithigala to Thiriwanaketiya via Mawdella.
SCHEDULE        R 19
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Pelmadulla, Weligepola and
Atakalampanna and the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Pelmadulla, Opanayaka, Weligepola, Godakawela and
Kahawaththa  in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Pelmadulla to Uduwela via Hunuwala, Opanayake.
East : Road from Udawela to Ranwala via Akarella.
South : Road from Ranwala to Pallegama, Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Pallegama to Madampe
via  Godakawela.
West : Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Madampe to Pelmadulla via Nugawela, Panawenna.
SCHEDULE        R 20
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Balangoda, Weligepola and
Atakalampanna and the Urban Council limit of Balangoda and the  Divisional Secretary’s Division of Opanayaka, Weligepola,
Godakawela and Balangoda  in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Udawela to Balangoda via Ellepola, Road from Balangoda to
Kirimetithenna.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
7A
East : Road from Kirimetithenna to Thalahena via Gangodagama, Badullegama.
South : Road from Thalahena to Pallegama via Balawinna.
West : Road from Pallegama to Udawela via Ranwala, Akarella.
SCHEDULE        R21
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of  Weligepola and Balangoda  and
the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola and Balangoda  in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province
and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Kirimetithenna to Nedungomuwa via Bowaththa.
East : Road from Nedungomuwa to Handagirigoda via Godakumbura
South : Road from Handagirigoda to Kelegammana via Kanaththewathugoda.
West : Road from Kelegammana to Kirimetithenna via Ihalagama, Ketagoda.
SCHEDULE     R22
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of  Weligepola and Balangoda  and
the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola and Balangoda  in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province
and bounded as follows.
North : Mulgama Oya (The river runs to Samanala Wewa) and the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and
Uva Provinces.
East : Provincial Boundary of Sagaragamuwa and Uva Provinces (Weli Oya).
South : Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.
West : Road from the Boundary of Udawalawa Reservation to Mulgama Oya (The river runs to Samanala
Wewa) via Mulgama.
SCHEDULE    R23
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Nivithigala, Kalawana and
Atakalanpanna and the  Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Nivithigala, Kahawaththa, Godakawela and Kalawana  in Rathnapura
District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Pahala Karawita to Watapotha via Nivithigala.
East : Road from Watapotha to Madampe South via Panapitiya and Galle - Madampe Main Road from Madampe
South to Rakwana.
South : Road from Rakwana to Rammuke Ganga Bridge via Dolekanda (to Kajugaswaththa), Rambake Ganga
and Koswaththa Ganga.
West : Koswaththa Ganga, Road from Koswaththa Ganga Bridge to Pahala Karawita via Wewal Kandura,
Pebotuwa, Udakara wita.
SCHEDULE     R24
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Atakalanpanna and the  Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions of  Godakawela and Kahawaththa  in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded
as follows.
North : Road from Watapotha to Nugawela West
East : Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Nugawela West to Madampe via Atakalanpanna.
South : Road from Madampe to Panapitiya South via Madampe South.
West : Road from Panapitiya South to Watapotha via Uda Hawpe.
SCHEDUL ( Contd.)

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
8A
SCHEDULE        R 25
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of  Embilipitiya, Weligepola and
Atakalanpanna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola, Embilipitiya and  Godakawela  in Rathnapura  District
of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Kelegammana to Handagirigoda via Kanaththewathugoda.
East : West Boundary of Udawalawa Reservation.
South : Road from the Boundary of Udawalawa Reservation to Kolambageara and Pelmadulla - Nonagama
Main Road from Kolambageara to Pallewela.
West : Road from Pallewela to Kelegammana via Badullegama, Thalgaskanda.
SCHEDULE        R 26
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of  Weligepola, Balangoda and
Embilipitiya and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola, Balangoda and Embilipitiya   in Rathnapura  District
of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.
East : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
South : Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.
West : Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.
SCHEDULE        R 27
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of  Embilipitiya, Kolonna and
Atakalanpanna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Embilipitiya. Kolonna and Godakawela  in Rathnapura  District
of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Madampe to Pallebedda via Godakawela, Balawinna
East : Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Pallebedda to Thimbolketiya via Kolambageara.
South : Angdolu Ganga, Road from Kolonna Bridge to Ereporuwa.
West : Road from Ereporuwa to Buluthota and Galle - Madampe Main Road from Buluthota to Madampe via
Rakwana.
SCHEDULE        R 28
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kalawana, Atakalanpanna and
Kolonna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Kalawana, Godakawela and Kolonna in Rathnapura  District of the
Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Rambuka to Rakwana via Dolekanda.
East : Galle - Madampe Main Road from Rakwana to Boraluwageina via Bulutota.
South : Road from Boraluwageina to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces,
Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces, Boundary of the Singharaja Forest,
Maha Ganga and Delgoda Ganga.
West : Road from Delgoda Ganga Bridge to Rammbuka via Hapugoda.
SCHEDULE        R 29
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Kalawana to Koswaththa Ganga Bridge, Koswaththa Ganga.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
9A
East : Koswaththa Ganga, Rambuke Ganga, Road from Rambuke Ganga bridge to Hapugoda.
South : Road from Hapugoda to Delgoda Colony via Weddagala.
West : Road from Delgoda Colony to Kalawana.
SCHEDULE        R 30
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Wewa Ganga Bridge to Kalawana via Kukulegama North.
East : Road from Kalawana to Degoda Ganga Bridge via Delgoda, Maha Ganga, Heendola.
South : Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation, Napola Dola, Koskulana Dola, Wewa Ganga.
West : Wewa Ganga.
SCHEDULE        R 31
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from the Provincial Boudary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces to Wewa Ganga Bridge.
East : Wewa Ganga, Koskulana Ganga, Napola Ganga.
South : Foot Path from the Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation to the Provincial Boundary of
Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces, Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.
West : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.
SCHEDULE        R 32
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation.
East : Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation.
South : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.
West : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.
SCHEDULE        R 33
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kolonna and the Divisional Secretary’s
Division of Kolonna in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Buluthota to Ereporuwa.
East : Road from Erepourwa to Pupulaketiya via Kolonna.
South : Road from Pupulaketiya to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces via
Dapana.
West : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces, Road from the Provincial Boundary of
Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces to Buluthota via Boraluwageiena.
SCHEDULE        R 34
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kolonna and Embilipitiya and the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Kolonna and Embilipitiya in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and
bounded as follows.
SCHEDULE ( Contd.)

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
10A
North : Andolu Ganga (from Kolonna to Thibolketiya).
East : Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Thimbolketiya to Embilipitiya Udagama via Maduwanwela.
South : Road from Embilipitiya Udagama to Panamure.
West : Road from Panamure to Kolonna via Jandura.
SCHEDULE      R35
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Embilipitiya and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of  Embilipitiya in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Kolambageara to the Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation and Boundary of the Udawalawa
Reservation.
East : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
South : Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces to Pelmadulla - Nonagama
Main Road via Embilipitiya Pallegama.
West : Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Embilipitiya Udagama to Kolambageara via Maduwanwela.
SCHEDULE       R36
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kolonna and Embilipitiya and the
Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kolonna and Embilipitiya in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and
bounded as follows.
North : Road from Pupulaketiya to Panamure via Jandura
East : Road from Panamure to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces via Walagoda.
South : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.
West : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.
SCHEDULE        R37
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Embilipitiya and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Embilipitiya in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Panamure to Embilipitiya Udagama.
East : Palmadulla-Nonagama Main Road from Embilipitiya Udagama to Padalangala via Pallegama.
South : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.
West : Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa  and Southern Provinces to Panamure via
Walalgoda.
SCHEDULE      R38
Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Embilipitiya and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Embilipitiya in Rathnapura  District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Pallegama to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
East : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.
South : Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces, Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from
Siyambalagoda to Padalangala.
West : Road from Padalangala to Pallegama via Thunkama’
07 - 675/1
SCHEDULE ( Contd.)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
11A
SRI  LANKA  LAND  RECLAMATION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  CORPORATION  ACT  No. 15  OF
1968 AS  AMENDED  BY  SRI  LANKA  LAND  RECLAMATION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION  (AMENDED)  ACT No. 35  OF  2006  AND  ACT  No.  52  OF  1982    AND  ACT
No.  27  OF  1976
Order under Section 2(b) 1
BY virtue of the powers vested on me in terms of section 2(b)1 of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation Act No. 15 of 1968 as amended by Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation (Amended)
Act No. 35 of 2006 and Act No. 52 of 1982 and Act No 27 of 1976, I, Patali Champika Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis
and Western Development through this Order determined and declare, with the concurrence of the subject Minister of
Land that, areas described in schedules as Ke
1- Ke31 situated in Kegalle district of the Sabaragamuwa Province to be an
area of low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands for the purpose of this Act. Below mentioned terms and conditions
prescribed by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation have to be adheres to in carrying out any
activity in this area.
P
ATALI C HAMPIKA  R ANAWAKA (M.P.),
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.
Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,
17th & 18th Floors, Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla,
28th June 2017.
TERMS   AND   CONDITIONS
1.The written approval of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation shall be obtained for
filling or developing a portion of land located within any of these declared areas through a request made, using an application
issued by the Corporation for that purpose.
2.The approval would be granted in terms of the Terms and Conditions recommended by the Planning Committee
comprising the officers of the Department of Agrarian Services, Urban Development Authority, Central Environment
Authority, and following officers of Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation; Chief Executive Officer/
General Manager, Additional General Manager, Deputy General Manager (Special Project) Deputy General Manager
(Lands. Marketing), Deputy General Manager (Research and Design), Deputy General Manager (Drainage and Reclamation)
and Chief Legal Officer. (An officer of the respective Local Authority, of which the land located, will be called where
necessary.)
3.Accordingly in case where such approval is granted under any terms and conditions made by the Sri Lanka
Reclamation and Development Corporation, every individual who default to adhere such terms and conditions could be
convicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.
4.In case where the land proposed for development is a paddy land, the approval to be sought in terms of the
formal plans and recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation on the request
of the Commissioner General of Agrarian Services.
5.In case where the land proposed for development is not a paddy land, the Local Authority concerned shall
confirm whether the recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation to be
obtained for any sort of development activity related to land reclamation made within this declared area, prior to grant
approval.
6.The recommendations of the other institutions concerned have to be obtained for the respective development
purpose of the land proposed for development.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
12A
7.Any individual authorized by the Chief Executive Officer of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation for the activities stipulated in the Act, shall have the power to access the declared area and anyone who
disturbs such access could be convicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation Act.
8.Every individual who does not adhere to the terms and conditions published through this Gazette Notifications
shall be guilty under the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.
9.The terms and conditions presently imposed and the terms and conditions that will be imposed in this connection
in the future shall be adhered to.
S
ABARAGAMUWA P ROVINCE - K EGALLE D ISTRICT
SCHEDULE     Ke 1
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Rambukkana and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Rambukkana in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and north western provinces.
East : District boundary of Kandy and Kegalle districts.
South : B
385 main road from Pabalgama to Rambukkana.
West : B 475 main road from Rambukkana to Walagammulla.
SCHEDULE     Ke 2
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Rambukkana and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Rambukkana in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and north - western provinces and B
475 main road from
Dombemada to Medagaladeniya.
East : B 475 main road from Medagaladeniya to Rambukkana junction and B199 main road to Rambukkana
junction.
South : Kandy - Colombo main road from Pallewela junction to Ranwala junction via Kegalle.
West : Polgahawela - Kegalle main road from Ranwala junction to Yatattewela.
SCHEDULE      Ke 3
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Rambukkana, Mawanella and
Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rambukkana, Mawanella and Kegalle in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa
province and bounded as follows.
North : B
385 main road from Rambukkana to Gondawela and  B385 main road from Rambukkana to Daluggala.
East : B 385 main road from Gondawela to Mawanella junction.
South : A 1 Kandy - Colombo road from Mawanella junction to Pallewela junction.
West : B 199 road from Pallewela junction to Daluggala.
SCHEDULE        Ke 4
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Rambukkana, Mawanella and the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rambukkana, Mawanella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded
as follows.
North : B
385 road to Dedunupitiya and Gondawela and Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central
provinces.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
13A
East : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.
South : Kandy - Colombo main road from Warakapana to Mawanella junction.
West : B
385 road to Mawanella junction to Gondawela.
SCHEDULE    Ke 5
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Mawanella and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Mawanella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Kandy - Colombo A
1 main road from Warakapana to Mawanella junction.
East : District boundary of Kandy and Kegalle districts.
South : District boundary of Kandy and Kegalle districts and B
279 road from Gaddessa to Hemmathagama.
West : B 279 road from Hemmathagama to Mawanella junction.
SCHEDULE      Ke 6
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Mawanella and Aranayake and  the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Mawanella and Aranayake in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded
as follows.
North : B
279 road from Mawanella to Kekirigoda and B 278 road from Mawanella to Beminiwatta.
East : B 279 road from Kekirigoda to Hemmathagama.
South : B 279 road from Hemmathagama to Aranayake and B279 road from Aranayake to Dippitya.
West : B 278 road from Gevilipitiya junction to Beminiwatta.
SCHEDULE       Ke 7
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Mawanella and Aranayake and  the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of, Mawanella and Aranayake in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded
as follows.
North : B
279 road from Hemmathagama to Gadadessa and B 279 road from Hemmathagama to Kalahagoda.
East : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.
South : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces and Maha Oya.
West : B
279 road from Aranayake to Kalagahagoda.
SCHEDULE      Ke 8
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Rambukkana, Kegalle, Aranayake
and Mawanella and Urban Council Limit of Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rambukkana, Kegalle,
Aranayake and Mawanella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Kandy-Colombo A
1 main road from Mawanella junction to Kegalle junction.
East : B 278 road from Mawanella junction to Gewilipitiya junction.
South : B 136 road from Gewilipitiya junction to Pallegama.
West : B 136 road from Pallegama to Thalewela and A 21 road from Thalewela to Kegalle junction.
SCHEDULE     Ke 9
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Aranayake, Yatiyantota, Galigamuwa
and Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Bulathkohupitiya, Aranayake and Kegalle in Kegalle district of
Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
SCHEDUL ( Contd.)

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
14A
North : B 136 road from Gewilipitiya junction to Thalawela and AA 21 road from Thalewela to Morontota.
East : B 278 road from Gevilipitiya to Aranayake and Maha oya.
South : Provincial boundary of Sabaragumuwa and Central provinces, road from Dolosbage to Dedagala and
B67 main road from Dedagala to Bulathkohupitiya.
West : AA 21 road from Bulathkohupitiya to Morontota via Getiyamulla.
SCHEDULE      Ke 10
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Kegalle and Galigamuwa and Urban
Council limit of Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Kegalle and Galigamuwa in Kegalle district of
Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : A
1 Kandy-Colombo road from Kegalle junction to Ballapana Udabage and A 21 Kegalle-Karawanella
road from Kegalle junction to Marapana.
East : A 21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Marapana to Morontota.
South : Road from Morontota to Kadigamuwa.
West : B
127 road from Kadigamuwa to Ballapana, Udabage.
SCHEDULE     Ke 11
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Galigamuwa, Kegalle, Yatiyantota
and Ruwanwella and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Galigamuwa, Kegalle, Bulathkohupitiya, Yatiyantota and
Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Kiridana to Morontota and B
127 road from Kiridana to Kanatuwawala.
East : A 21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Morontota to Bulathkohupitiya via Getiyamulla.
South : B 27 road from Warawala to Maththamagoda.
West : B 127 road from Maththamagoda to Kiridana.
SCHEDULE     Ke 12
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Galigamuwa and Warakapola  and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Galigamuwa and Warakapola in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and
bounded as follows.
North : A
1 Kandy-Colombo road from Ballapana Udabage to Marapitiya.
East : B 127 road from Ballapana Udabage to Udugama.
South : B 127 road from Udugama to Kotiyakumbura and road from Kotiyakumbura to Kiniwita.
West : B 540 road from Kiniwita to Maripitiya.
Schedule    Ke 13
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Ruwanwella, Yatiyantota, Warakapola
and Galigamuwa and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of, Ruwanwella, Warakapola and Galigamuwa in Kegalle district
of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : B
540 road from Galapitamada to Kiniwita and road from Kiniwia to Malmaduwa.
East : B 127 road from Malmaduwa to Maththamagoda via Kotiyakumbura.
South : B 127 road from Maththamagoda to Anguruwella via Warawala and B457 road from Anguruwella to
Siyambalawala.
West : B 457 road from Siyambalawala to Galapitamada.
SCHEDUL ( Contd.)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
15A
SCHEDULE      Ke 14
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Ruwanwella and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Galapitamada to Dunumale.
East : B 457 road from Galapitamada to Anguruwella.
South : B 445 road from Anguruwella to Wahakula via Ruwanwella and AA21 road
West : B 445 road from Vahakula to Daluwalana and the provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western
Provinces.
SCHEDULE     Ke 15
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Warakapola and Ruwanwella and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Warakapola and Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and
bounded as follows.
North : A
1 Kandy-Colombo road from Warakapola to Dummaladeniya.
East : B 457 road from Warakapola to Galapitamada.
South : Road from Galapitamada to Dunumale and provincial boundary of Sabaragmuwa and Western provinces.
West : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western provinces.
SCHEDULE      Ke 16
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Warakapola and Ruwanwella and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Warakapola and Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and
bounded as follows.
North : A
1 Kandy-Colombo Main road from Marapitiya to Warakapola.
East : B 540 road from Marapitiya to Kiniwita.
South : B 540 road from Kiniwita to Galapitamada and B547 road from Galapitamada to Balaharuwa.
West : B 547 road from Balaharuwa to Warakapola junction.
SCHEDULE    Ke 17
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Galigamuwa, Kegalle, Warakapola
and Rambukkana Uraban Council limit of Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Galigamuwa, Kegalle,
Warakapola and Rambukkana in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and North-western provinces.
East : A
19 Kegalle-Polgahawela road from Ambuwangala to Ranwala.
South : A 1 Kandy-Colombo main road from Ranwala to Ambepussa junction via Galigamuwa.
West : A 6 Ambepussa-Trincomalee road from Ambepussa junction to Alawwa railway station and the
Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and North-western provinces.
SCHEDULE     Ke 18
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Warakapola and the Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions of Warakapola in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : A
6 Ambepussa-Trincomalee road from Alawwa railway station to Thulhiriya.
East : A 6 Ambepussa-Trincomalee road from Thulhiriya to Ambepussa junction.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
16A
South : A 1 Kandy-Colombo main road from Ambepussa junction to Dummaladeniya and the district boundary
of Kurunegala and Kegalle districts.
West : District boundary of Kurunegala and Kegalle districts.
SCHEDULE     Ke 19
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Bulathkohupitiya and Yatiyantota
and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Bulathkohupitiya and Yatiyantota in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province
and bounded as follows.
North : A
21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Panapitiya to Bulathkohupitiya and B67 road from Bulathkohupitiya
to Dolosbage.
East : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.
South : B
482 road from Horaballa to Warakagoda.
West : B 385 road from Waragoda to Panapitiya.
SCHEDULE    Ke 20
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Ruwanwella and Yatiyantota  and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Ruwanwella, Bulathkohupitiya and Yatiyantota  in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa
province and bounded as follows.
North : AA
21 road from Panapitiya to Warawala.
East : B 358 road from Panapitiya to Warakagoda.
South : B 482 road from Warakagoda to Yatiyantota and AA7 road from Yatiyantota to Karawanella.
West : AA 21 road from Karawanella to Warawala via Ruwanwella.
SCHEDULE   Ke 21
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Yatiyantota and Dehiowita and the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita, Yatiyantota and Bulathkohupitiya in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa
province and bounded as follows.
North : B
482 road from Yatiyantota to Horaballa.
East : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.
South : A
7  Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Yatweriya to Hakbellawa.
West : AA 7 road from Hakbellawa to Yatiyantota.
SCHEDULE    Ke 22
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Yatiyantota, Deraniyagala, Ruwanwella
and Dehiowita and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita, Yatiyantota, Deraniyagala and Ruwanwella in Kegalle
district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : A
7 Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Karawanella to Yatiweriya via Yatiyantota, Halbellawa,
Kithulgala and Orutota.
East : Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.
South : B
93 road from Koswaththa to Dehiowita via Polgaswaththa, Basnagala, Anhettigama and Deraniyagala.
West : A 7  Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Dehiowita to Karawanella.
SCHEDUL ( Contd.)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  06.07.2017
17A
SCHEDULE   Ke 23
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Ruwanwella and the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded
as follows.
North : Kelani ganga and A
21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Ruwanwella to Karawanella.
East : A 7 Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Karawanella to Dehiowita.
South : A 4 Colombo-Rathnapura-Batticaloa road from Dehiowita to Avissawella.
West : District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts and Kelani ganga.
SCHEDULE   Ke 24
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Ruwanwella and the Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions of Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts and B
445 road from Daluwalana to Wahakula.
East : B 445 road from Wahakula to Ruwanwella and Kelani ganga.
South : Kelani ganga and B 408 road from Medagosa to Mahadeniya.
West : B 408 road from Mahadeniya to Puranpoththa.
SCHEDULE    Ke 25
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Ruwanwella and the Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions of Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : B
408 road from Puranpoththa to Amithirigala and District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts.
East : B 408 road from Amithirigala to Medagoda and Kelani ganga.
South : District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts.
West : District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts.
SCHEDULE   Ke 26
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Dehiowita and the Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : A
4 Colombo-Rathnapura-Batticaloa road from Avissawella to Dehiowita.
East : B 110 road from Dehiowita to Panawala.
South : B 110 road from Panawala to Wilegoda and District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.
West : District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.
SCHEDULE    Ke 27
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and
bounded as follows.
North : B
93 road from Dehiowita to Deloluwa and the causeway cum bridge ( Sapaththu palama ) road from
Dehiowita.
East : B 93 road from Deloluwa to Anhettigama.
South : Seethawaka ganga.
West : B 110 road from Batahgala to the causeway cum bridge ( Sapaththu palama).

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 06.07.2017
18A
SCHEDULE     Ke 28
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and
bounded as follows.
North : Seethawaka ganga.
East : Road from Ambanwella to Demada.
South : District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.
West : B
110 road from Weligoda to Batangoda.
SCHEDULE    Ke 29
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala and
the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and
bounded as follows.
North : Seethawaka ganga.
East : Road from Anhettigama to Magala via Pothdenikanda, Yatawala.
South : District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.
West : Road from Demeda to Ambanwala.
SCHEDULE   Ke 30
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Deraniyagala and the Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions of Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Basnagala to Polgaswaththa.
East : Road from Polgaswaththa to Maliboda.
South : Road from Maliboda to Anhettigama.
West : Road from Anhettigama to Basnagala.
SCHEDULE   Ke 31
Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Deraniyagala and the Divisional
Secretary’s Division of Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.
North : Road from Minuwandeniya to Padaha provincial boundary of Central and Sabaragamuwa provices.
East : Provincial boundary of Central and Sabaragamuwa provinces and District boundary of Nuwaraeliya
and Kegalle districts.
South : District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.
West : Road from Magala to Padaha.
07-675/2
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.