

<!-- page 1 -->

327
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.11'12
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 12.11.2021
wxl 2"254- 2021 fkdjeïn¾ ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.11'12
No. 2,254– FriDAY, November 12  2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AtteNtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  03rd December  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th November, 2021.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January 2021
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 327- B 82287 - 353 (11/2021)
 Page Page
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 328
Note.–  Shaili Education Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist  Republic 
of Sri Lanka of 22nd October, 22nd, 2021

<!-- page 2 -->

328
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.11'12
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 12.11.2021
miscellaneous notices
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The SRI  LAnkA InSTITuTe of TRAInInG  AnD 
DeveLoPmenT
I, Kokila Harshani Gunawardena, do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Billl entitled "An  Act to incorporate the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Training and Development".
The aim  of the Bill is to incorporate the said Sri Lanka Institute of  Training and Development which has the following 
general objects :-
 1. to promote a better and more effective utilization of human resources through education, Traning and Development 
in all sphere relating to development ;
 2. to provide and promote maintenance of a representative body for the training profession and to collect, collate, coordinate 
and distribute information, ideas, methods and techniques for the benefit and improvement of the training profession 
; and
 3. to actively promote Human Resource Development initiatives at the organizational level with a view to the enhancement 
of the level of managerial competencies in organizations etc.,
 Kokila  Harshani Gunawardena,
 Member of Parliament.
11-205
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.