

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 14.11.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2149$21 - 2019 fkdjeïn¾ ui 14 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'11'14
No. 2149/21 -  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER  14, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.D.B. 3/2012XII
TOURISM  ACT,  No.  38  OF  2005
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Tourism Development, Wildlife and Christian Religious Affairs, on the advice
of the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority, under Section 69 of the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 read with subsections
(3), (6) and (7) of Section 48 and Subsection (1) of Section 50 of the aforesaid Act.
J
OHN ANTHONY  E MMANUEL  AMARA THUNGA,
Minister of Tourism Development, Wildlife
and Christian Religious Affairs.
Colombo,
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Tourism (Registration and Licensing of Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care
Centres) Regulations No. 3 of 2019.
2. No person shall carry on the business of an Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre as a Tourist Service unless
such service is registered with the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”)
and obtained a license for such service from the Authority.
3. Every business of an Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre shall be a registered business with the relevant
Government Authority.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G   31458— 27  (11/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 14.11.2019
2A
4. Every person who already carries on a business of an Ayurvedic Toursit Health Care Centre shall reigster with
the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority, within a period of six months from the date of publication of these regulations
in the Gazette.
P
ART I
Registration of Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centres
5. Every person who wishes to register an Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre as a registered Tourist Service
shall -
(a) submit an application to the Director-General of the Authority (hereinafter referred to as the “Director-
General”) in a form as may be determined by him ; and
(b) be accompanied by such fees specified in the Order made under subsection (5) of section 48 of the
Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2071/57 of May 16, 2018.
6. The Director-General may request for further information or documents to be furnished, including any
clarification that he may consider to be necessary for the purpose of deciding such application.
7. An application found to contain false, misleading or incorrect information or particulars shall be rejected.
8. Where the Director-General is satisfied that the applicant possess the requirements, the Director-General
shall register such applicant as registered proprietor of such Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre and, issue a Certificate
of registration to such registered proprietor.
P
ART II
Licensing of Registered Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centres
9. Every person who desires to carry on a business of an Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre registered under
these regulations shall -
(a) submit an application to the Director-General substantially in a form as may be determined by him ; and
(b) be accompanied by such fees specified in the Order made under subsection (5) of Section 48 of the
Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 and published in Gazette  Extraordinary No. 2071/57 of May 16, 2018.
10. Upon the receipt of an application for the issuance of a license from the proprietor of the  Ayurvedic Tourist
Health Care Centre, the Director-General may direct the applicant to furnish such further information, documents or
clarifications pertaining to the application within such period as may be specified, for issuance of license.
11.(1)  The Director-General shall, on being satisfied that the applicant possesses the minimum standards specified
in the schedule hereto for an Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre issue a license to the proprietor of the Ayurvedic
Tourist Health Care Centre.
(2) The Director-General shall, inform the applicant of his decision in writing within a period of one month
and in a case of a refusal to issue a license, he shall state his reasons therefore.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 14.11.2019
3A
12. The license issued under regulation 11 of these regulations -
(a) may be subject to such terms and conditions as specified in the license, which the Director-General
may deem appropriate for securing due compliance with provisions of Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 or
any regulations made thereunder.
(b) shall come into force on the date specified therein ;
(c) shall, unless it is earlier cancelled or revoked by the Director-General, remain in force for a period of
one year from the date specified in the license.
P
ART  III
General
13. The Director-General may refuse to issue a license under regulation 11 where the applicant -
(a) has failed to register the Tourist Service or himself as the registered proprietor under these regulations
; or
(b) has failed to comply with the minimum standards specified in the Schedule hereto.
14. The Director-General may, on the approval of the Authority amend, modify or rescind any term or condition
attached to the Certificate of Registration or the license.
15. The Director-General may cancel the Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 8 or the license
issued under regulation 11 of these regulations on the ground -
(a) that any provision of the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 has been violated ;
(b) that any regulations made under the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 has been violated ; or
(c) that any condition attached to the Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 8 or  license issued
under regulation 11 has not been complied with.
16. A license issued under regulation 11 of these regulations shall be renewable on -
(a) an application being made on that behalf to the Director-General in a form as may be determined by
him ;
(b) not later than three months before the expiry of the license ; and
(c) accompanied by such fees as are payable in terms of the order made under subsection (5) of section 48
of the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2071/57 of May 16,
2018.
17. Any person aggrieved by a decision of a refusal to issue the Certificate of Registration or refusal of a renewal
or a cancellation of a license issued may, within one month of the date of receipt of the written communication informing
such person of the refusal or the cancellation, as the case may be, submit an appeal to the Tribunal established under
Section 51 of the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005.
18. Every registered and licensed proprietor shall ensure the registered Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre
complies with the minimum requirements as specified in Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 14.11.2019
4A
19. The Director-General shall cause to maintain a Register of Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre which shall
contain such particulars of the registered and licensed Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre and be maintained in such
form as may be determined by the Director-General.
20. In these regulations -
“Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centre ” means a dedicated centre with facilities to conduct Ayurveda
for Tourism.
Schedule
(Regulation 11)
Minimum Requirements for Ayurvedic Tourist Health Care Centres
1. Location
The minimum requirements of the particular classified Hotel or Boutique Hotel to be complied with.
2. Buildings
The buildings shall be suitably designed and constructed for provision of Ayurvedic health care services.
3. Compound/Garden
The compound and the garden shall be well laid out and maintained to harmonize with the requirements of
Ayurvedic health care services, preferably grown with Ayurvedic herbs.
4. Parking
There shall be a dedicated parking space for the guests of the Ayurvedic healh care centre.
5. Reception/Information
A separate Reception/Information desk shall be made available to receive and provide detailed information
on Ayurvedic health care services to the guests.
6. Consultation Rooms and Guest Waiting Rooms
6.1 There shall be one or more consultation room with adequate space and facilities for physicians.
6.2 These rooms shall be demarcated and adequately lit and ventilated and shall be well maintained.
6.3 Comfortable seating facilities shall be provided for the guests seeking treatment.
6.4 A copy of the Ayurvedic Practitioner’s Certificate issued by Department of Ayurveda or the Ayurvedic
Medical Council, indicating the specialization, shall be displayed in the guest waiting area or in the
consultation room.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 14.11.2019
5A
7. Types of Ayurvedic Treatment
7.1 The Ayurvedic Health Care Centre shall provide the following types of Ayurvedic treatments.
7.1.1 Poorva Karma (Sneha an Sweda Karma, namely (a) Thaila Abyanga and Sheera Abyanga,
(b) Shirodhara, (c) Sarwangadhara, (d) Pinda and Wasshpa Swedha, (e) Agni and Niranga Swedha.
7.1.2 Pradhana Karma (Pancha Karma) namely (a) Vamana Karma, (b) Viredhana Karma, (c) Nasya
Karma, (d) Vasthi Karma, (e) Raktha Mokshana  Karma.
7.1.3 Paschath Karma, (a) Patya Ahara Viharana.
7.1.4 Kshudra Karma, namely (a) Gandusha, (b) Kavalangraha and (c) Akshi Tharpana.
7.2 Guest/patient records with name, age, family history, allergies, type of medicine, dosage, current
medicine and reaction to medicine shall be maintained.
8. Treatment Rooms
8.1 The treatment rooms shall be located away from the public areas and there shall be adequate privacy in
and around the room.
8.2 Adequate number of treatment rooms shall be provided in relation to the number of  guests seeking
following therapeutical treatment, namely (a) massages, (b) steam baths,  (c) herbal baths, (d)
acupuncture (if provided), meditation and yoga and counseling.
8.3 There shall be separate treatment rooms for males and females.
8.4 The following facilities and equipment shall be made available for treatment purposes, namely (a)
examination bed/s, (b) wooden beds for massage/Shirodhara and (c) Caskets for steaming, made out of
wood  (preferably Margosa).
8.5 Treatment rooms shall have sufficient light and ventilation.
8.6 All guests shall be provided with clean and  sanitized cotton linen which shall include bath robes, bath
towels, face towels, hand towels, bed sheets, inhalation sheets, scarves and eye guards.
9. Post - Treatment Relaxation Lounge/Area
9.1 There shall be a separate post-treatment relaxation lounge or are for relaxation after treatment.
9.2 It shall be well equipped and furnished with relaxing chairs and shall be quiet without any disturbance.
10. Pharmacy/Medical preparation room
10.1 There shall be a spacious pharmacy for stocking of Ayurvedic supplies and for preparation of medicine.
10.2 Preparation of medicine shall be done under the supervision of a qualified Ayurvedic Physician or a
qualified pharmacist, registered with the Ayurvedic Medical Council.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 14.11.2019
6A
10.3 Suitable racks and storing devices shall be provided for storage of medicinal items and tables, equipment
and utensils shall be provided for mixing and preparation of medicine.
10.4 The pharmacy shall be fitted with a wash basin with running hot and cold water.
10.5 All drugs/medicines shall be prepared according to the accepted standards using permitted utensils.
10.6 Separate stores shall be available to stock manufactured drugs and raw materials.
10.7 Proper and adequate heating and fermentation methods shall be observed.
10.8 The Pharmacist should maintain an inventory of all pharmaceuticals, indicating date of manufacture,
date of expiry, ingredients used and details of suppliers of manufacturers.
10.9 The Health Care Unit shall purchase manufactured medicine from a manufacturer registered with the
Department of Ayurveda.
11. Herbal Kitchen
11.1 There shall be a herbal kitchen  adequately staffed with knowledgeable and experienced staff for the
preparation of required solid and liquid herbal products, decoction, pastes and bundles.
11.2 Utensils used in the preparation of all Ayurvedic medicine in the Health Care Unit shall have the approval
of the Department of Ayurveda.
12. Casual Toilets Units
12.1 There shall be separate casual toilet units for males and females.
12.2 Each toilet unit shall be provided with water closet units, wash basins, mirrors, towel rails, clothes
hooks, clean towels, sanitary bin with paper bags, soap, soap trays, toilet paper with holders, bidets or
hand bidets and hot and cold water.
12.3 The fixtures and fittings in the casual toilet units shall be in good working order.
12.4 The toilet units shall be adequately lit and ventilated and also well maintained.
12.5 The floor and walls up to 1.5 m of the toilet shall be of impervious material.
 13. Staff and Facilities
13.1 There shall be at least one Ayurvedic Physician certified by Department of Ayurveda/Ayurveda Medical
Council as a consultant attached to the Ayurvedic Health Care Unit, preferably with an Assistant Physician
who shall have a Degree or a Diploma from and institute recognized by the Department of Ayurveda.
Any traditional Indigenous Ayurvedic Physician shall have obtained necessary clearance from the
Department of Ayurveda, based on their proven records.
13.2 There shall be an adequate number of therapists, both male and female with at least six months training
on Ayurvedic treatments and their certificate of training shall be accepted by the Department of Ayurveda.
13.3 Attendants, both male and female, with at least six months training and/or practical experience on
Ayurveda, to treat the male and female patients respectively, shall be available.
11 - 1644
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.