

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3190  
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 3188
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"142 – 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'09'20
No. 2,142 –  FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th October, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th September, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3185 - B 81561- 5,403 (09/2019)
Note.–   Registration of Electors (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of September 12, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3186
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proﬁ ciency in one of the ofﬁ cial 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  pro ﬁ ciency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3187
RULES AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXAMINATION CANDIDATES
All examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
The following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations Act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the Commissioner General Examinations.
All examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
 I. Debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 III. Imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 IV . Debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . Issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ c period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to ﬁ le a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations Act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 VIII. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed ﬁ nal.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. Also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. Actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective Index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. Absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. A candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identi ﬁ ed through 
the candidate’s Index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
Further, writing other examination candidate’s Index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing Index Numbers 
those are difﬁ cult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. Acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. Any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. It is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. If a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. It is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. All such materials are belonged to the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. Also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. In case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the Commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. After sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. Also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an ofﬁ cer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. Impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. Tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 I. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 II. It is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities con ﬁ rmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 ( a) Actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identiﬁ cation documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 ( b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 IV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to con ﬁ rm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 VI. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 VII. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the Index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. You should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. You should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 VIII. The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. Actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 IX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. The 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufﬁ ciently large.
 X. You should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 XI. At the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. Any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 XII. Your answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an of ﬁ cer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. Failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 XIII. If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
ofﬁ cer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
Commissioner General of the Examinations.
At the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3188
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
Marriages (Kandyan/General)
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar Marriages/
Additional Registrar of Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriage Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufﬁ cient interest and inﬂ uence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. Applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a Divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  Additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari Divisions within the related Division of Birth, Death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualiﬁ cations related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the Division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Land and District 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Ofﬁ ce, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Ofﬁ ces as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "Attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari Divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agents) or Land and District Registries or Divisional Secretariats of 
the District. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
21st October, 2019.
 N. C. V
ITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
On the day of 29th August, 2019.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Application are 
called
Address to which Application 
should be sent
Kandy Tumpane Post of Birth and Death Registrar of 
Medasiyapattuwa and Marriage Registrar 
(Kandyan/General) of Tumpane Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Poojapitiya Post of Birth and Death Registrar of 
Galasiyapattuwa 01 and Marriage Registrar 
(Kandyan/General) of Harispattuwa Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Kandy.
09–644

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3189
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Amendment of closing date of applications and Marriages Division for recruitment of Registrar of 
Marriage the Registrar General's Department
BADULLA DISTRICT
IT is kindly notiﬁ ed that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Additional Marriage Registrar, for the 
Division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2136 of 09.08.2019 is extended 
as 21.10.2019 and also note that the Marriages Division should be change as Bandarawela Town, Division of Haputhale. 
02. Please note that the closing date of applications and the Marriages Division only changed all other details in the 
said Gazette notiﬁ cation remain unchanged. 
 N. C. VITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  
Application are called
Address to which Application
should be sent
Badulla Bandarawela Post of Additional Registrar of 
Bandarawela Town, Haputhale Division 
(Kandyan/General)
District Secretary/Additional Registrar 
General, District Secretariat, Badulla.
09–645
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Muslim of Marriages
ANURADHAPURA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the Divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the Muslim Marriage Divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufﬁ cient interest and inﬂ uence in the area.
02. Only Muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. Applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3190
05.  Additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari Divisions within the related Division of Muslim Marriage 
and Education and other qualiﬁ cations related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the Division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Land and District Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Ofﬁ ce, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Ofﬁ ces as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "Attachment I" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari Divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agents) or Land and District Registries or Divisional Secretariats of 
the District. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
21st October, 2019.
 N. C. V
ITHANAGE,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
On the day of 08th December, 2019.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Anuradhapura Palagala Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Balaluwewa Area and Kalagam Palatha 
Division
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District Secretariat, 
Anuradhapura
09–626
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH 
Third Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination for the Ofﬁ cers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
Health Service - 2019
IT is hereby notiﬁ ed that the Third Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination for Of ﬁ cers in Grade I in the above mentioned Service in 
expected to commence in November, 2019 and to be held at the Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya. 
Applications are called from the ofﬁ cers those who have promoted to Grade I in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service as at 14th October, 2019.
2. Details of the examination.– As per the provisions provided in Chapter 08 of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka 
Animal Production and Health Service, details of the examination are given below according to the appendix ﬁ ve of the 
Minute. 
Details of the examination : 
Subject Duration Aggregate marks Pass Marks
1. Management 03 hours 100 40

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3191
3. Syllabus for the examination : 
Subject Syllabus
Management 1. Management Principles
2. Management Functions
3. Management Environment
4. Participatory Management
5. Public relation
6. Good Governance
7. Ethics
At least 40% of marks should be obtained for the question 
paper to get a pass. 
The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efﬁ ciency 
Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury 
Circular No. 701 dated 04th September, 1966 which is 
reproduced below : 
"The medium for departmental examinations (including 
promotional and Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examinations) should be 
the language in which the of ﬁ cer sat for the Competitive 
Examination to enter the Public Services or the Of ﬁ cial 
Language. But the ofﬁ cers who entered the service without a 
competitive examination should select either the Language 
in which the ofﬁ cer qualiﬁ ed for entry to the Public Service 
or the Ofﬁ cial Language.
5. This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English only at the examination centers in the Dept. of 
Animal Production and Health. Permission will not be given 
to change the medium applied by the candidate later. 
6. If found later that the candidate has sat for the 
examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his 
candidature will be cancelled. 
7. The application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to the noti ﬁ cation and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it. It should be noted that the 
cages 01 to 06 should appear on page I of the paper and 
the rest on the other side of the paper. Relevant particulars 
should be clearly written by the candidate in his own hand 
writing. The candidate is advised to keep a Photostatcopy 
of the application for his use. Further the candidate should 
check the applications prepared by him with the specimen 
application appeared in the notice. The applications which 
are not prepared as per the specimen form and incomplete 
applications forms will be rejected without any notiﬁ cation. 
The name of the examination should be written in English 
too in the applications prepared in Sinhala or Tamil Medium. 
8. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations 
enacted by the Director General of the Dept. of Animal 
Production and Health in respect of conducting the 
examination and issuing of results as the Director General 
of the Dept. of Animal Production and Health reserves the 
authority to conduct the examination as per the Service 
Minute of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service. All rules and regulations applicable to national 
level examinations conducted by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations are in force for this examination too. If a 
candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at 
the discretion of the Director General of the Dept. of Animal 
Production and Health. 
9. Applications should be forwarded through the Head 
of Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the 
Director General of Animal Production and Health, to the 
address given below on or before 14th October, 2019. The 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
The Director General of Animal Production and Health, 
Department of Animal Production and Health, 
P. O. Box 13, 
Peradeniya. 
10. The applicants those who have forwarded the 
accurately completed application including their language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant's signature and certiﬁ cation of Departmental Head 
and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee before or 
on the date of receiving applications indicated in the notice, 
will be issued the admissions by the Director General of 
Animal Production and Health assuming that only qualiﬁ ed 
personals have applied for this examination as stated in the 
Gazette noti ﬁ cation. As soon as the admission cards are 
issued to the candidates, the Dept. of Animal Production 
and Health will publish a notice in the ofﬁ cial website of the 
Department. If the admission card is not received 2-3 days 
after the publication of the notice, it should be informed to 
the Department of Animal Production and Health stating 
name and address of the applicant, National Identity Card 
No. and Fax number or the E-mail address as stated in the 
notice. It is useful to keep photostat copies of the completed 
application, receipt of the payment and receipt of the 
registration in your possession in order to produce for the 
veriﬁ cation of any information requested by the Dept. of 
Animal Production and Health. 
11. The claims submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulﬁ ll the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 10 will not be considered. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3192
12. Only the National Identity Card or the valid 
passport or the valid driving license will be accepted for 
the examinations conducted by the Department of Animal 
Production and Health in order to prove the identity of the 
candidate at the examination hall. The applicant's signature 
in the application as well as in the admission card should be 
certiﬁ ed by the Head of the Department or by an authorized 
person. The applicant should appear for the examination 
being seated in the place where your examination number 
has been indicated and the certi ﬁ ed admission card should 
be produced to the examiner on the examination day. The 
applicant who does not produce the certiﬁ ed admission card 
will not be allowed to sit for the examination. 
13. No fees will be levied from the candidates who sit 
for the examination as it is the ﬁ rst time of this examination. 
14. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has ful ﬁ lled the quali ﬁ cations to 
sit for the examination. 
15. If Sinhala/Tamil or English language versions of the 
Gazette noti ﬁ cation are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted. 
 Dr. K. D. A
RIYAPALA, 
 Director General of the Dept. of 
 Animal Production and Health.
P. O. Box 13,
Gatambe, 
Peradeniya, 
29th August, 2019.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
M
INISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, DISASTER MANAGEMENT 
AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT 
THE THIRD EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN SRI 
LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2019
(The name of the examination should be written on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope) 
Language medium of examination : 
 Sinhala - 2
 Tamil - 3
 English - 4
 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i) Full Name (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
   ( Ex. HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN
      KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANE)
  (ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––.
   ( Ex. : GUNAWARDHANE H. M. S. K.)
  (iii) Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address (for dispatch of admission card) :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
03. Male/Female :
   Female - 1
   Male - 0
   (Write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. NIC No. :
05. Phone No. :
06. Date of Birth : 
 Year : Month :  Date :
07. Designation :––––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Service Station :––––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
08. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri 
Lanka Animal Production and Health Service : –––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that 
I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. 
Further, I am prepared to abide by the conditions enacted 
by the Director General of the Dept. of Animal Production 
and Health with regard to the conduct of the examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of Candidate. 
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3193
Director General of the Dept. of Animal Production and 
Health, 
Through ..................................
Forwarded :
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear 
above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she 
has qualiﬁ cations to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated in the application. 
I attest the candidate's signature.
  ––––––––––––––,
  *Signature of Head of Department and  
 Designation. 
  (Place the rubber stamp)
Date :––––––––––––.
(Attestation of the signature - Candidate's signature should 
be attested by the Head of the Ministry/Department/
Provincial Council/Town Council/Division/to which he 
is attached)
09–625
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Open / Limited Competitive Examination for 
recruitment of post of Translator Grade II 
(Sinhala/English), (Tamil/ English) and 
(Sinhala Tamil) of the Department of Ofﬁ cial 
Languages - 2019
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from quali ﬁ ed citizens 
of Sri Lanka for the following posts of the Department of 
Ofﬁ cial Languages :
Translator (Sinhala / English) - Number of vacancies - 02
Translator (Tamil / English) - Number of vacancies - 04
Translator (Sinhala / Tamil) - Number of vacancies - 07
02. Monthly Salary Scale. – Rs. 36,585 - 10 x 660 -                         
11 x755 - 15x 930 - Rs. 65,440 /- (MN - 6 - 2016) - (A).
03. This post is permanent and pensionable.
04. Ratio of recruitment :
Stream Percentage
Open 75%
Limited 25%
Merit Not applicable
Note: In case, the number of quali ﬁ ed applicants is 
found to be insuf ﬁ cient for the recruitment under 
the limited stream, such number of vacancies 
will be ﬁ lled under the open stream. Further, in 
the event that the number of quali ﬁ ed applicants 
is insufﬁ cient under the open stream, recruitment 
shall be made as per the following qualiﬁ cations.:
05. Qualiﬁ cations.– The following quali ﬁ cations are 
required for the post of Translator Grade II (Sinhala / 
English) (Tamil / English) and (Sinhala / Tamil) - (Open/ 
Limited)
5.1. Translator (Sinhala/ Tamil) :
 Applicants should have obtained;
 I. A degree from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission
  and
 II. A credit pass for Sinhala and Tamil as a 
core subject at G.C.E. (O/L) examination or 
equivalent examination, or a credit pass for 
the other language as the second language 
level or a credit pass for the ﬁ rst language 
with an higher level qualiﬁ cation.
  and
 III. Applicants should pass a practical test on 
computer typesetting in both Sinhala and 
Tamil languages.
Translator (Sinhala/English):
Applicants should have obtained;
 I. A degree from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission, and
 II. A credit pass for Sinhala Language and a credit 
pass for English Language/ English Literature 
at G.C.E (O/L) examination or equivalent 
examination
  and

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3194
 III. Applicants should pass a practical test on computer typesetting in both Sinhala and English languages.
Translator (Tamil/ English)
Applicants should have obtained;
 I. A degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission, and
 II. A credit pass for Tamil Language and a credit pass for English Language/ English Literature at G.C.E (O/L) 
examination or equivalent examination.
 III. Applicants should pass a practical test on computer typesetting in both Tamil and English languages.
5.2. Physical ﬁ tness.– Every candidate should be physically and mentally ﬁ t to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to 
discharge duties assigned to the post.
5.3. Other:
 1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 2. Should be of an excellent character.
 3. Should have completed all the quali ﬁ cations required for recruitment to the post in each and every way, as at 
the date prescribed in the Notice of Calling Applications/Gazette Notiﬁ cation.
5.4. The ofﬁ cers who are currently in the public service should hold permanent posts and have been conﬁ rmed in the 
respective posts.
06. Service Conditions :
 I. The Commissioner General of Of ﬁ cial Languages determines the number of appointments and the effective 
date of such appointments. The Commissioner General of Ofﬁ cial Languages reserves authority to ﬁ ll a certain 
number of vacancies or all the vacancies.
 II. The ﬁ rst Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination should be passed within three (03) years from the date of
appointment to the post.
 III. Language pro ﬁ ciency should be acquired in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 1/ 2014 within ﬁ ve 
(05) years from the date of appointment to the post.
 IV . The selected candidates will be recruited to Grade II of the post in terms of the provisions set out in the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1586 / 30 dated 20.02.2009 
and the provisions set out in the Establishment Code.
 V . All the recruitments will be subject to the approved Scheme of Recruitment and the amendments made to the 
same in the future.
 VI. The of ﬁ cers who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the respective 
Heads of the Departments / Institutions.
07. Age Limit :
Open : Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date for applications.
Limited : Not applicable
08. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments are made based on the results of a written examination and the qualiﬁ cations 
will be veriﬁ ed at an ordinary interview.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3195
8.1. Subjects of the Examination :
Question paper Duration Total marks Pass marks
Translator
(Sinhala/English)
1. Translation- Sinhala to English 03 hours 100 40%
2. Translation- English to Sinhala 03 hours 100 40%
3. Sinhala Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
4. English Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
Translator (English/ 
Tamil)
1. Translation- Tamil to English 03 hours 100 40%
2. Translation- English to Tamil 03 hours 100 40%
3. Tamil Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
4. English Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
Translator
(Sinhala/Tamil)
1. Translation- Sinhala to Tamil 03 hours 100 40%
2. Translation- Tamil to Sinhala 03 hours 100 40%
3. Sinhala Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
4. Tamil Language 1 and 1/ 2 hours 100 40%
8.2 Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
Translator
(Sinhala/
English)
1. Translation- 
English to 
Sinhala
Translating 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scienti ﬁ c, 
technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from English 
Language to Sinhala Language.
2. Translation 
- Sinhala to 
English
Translating 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scienti ﬁ c, 
technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from Sinhala 
Language to English Language.
3. Sinhala 
Language
Writing an essay, writing a pre-cis, summarizing a given passage using the 
candidate’s own words, constructing
 sentences so as to give the meanings 
of the given words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, de ﬁ ning 
idioms, correct spellings.
4. English 
Language
Writing an essay, constructing sentences so as to give the meanings of the 
given words, deﬁ ning idioms, analyzing compound and complex clauses
Translator
(Sinhala/Tamil)
1.Translation 
- Tamil to 
Sinhala
Translating 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientiﬁ c, 
technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from Tamil 
Language to Sinhala Language.
2. Translation 
- Sinhala to 
Tamil
Translating 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scienti ﬁ c, 
technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from Sinhala 
Language to Tamil Language.
3. Sinhala
 
Language
Writing an essay, writing a precis, summarizing a given passage using the 
candidate’s own words, constructing sentences so as to give the meanings 
of the given words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, de ﬁ ning 
idioms, spellings
4. Tamil Language Writing an essay, writing a precis, summarizing a given passage in candidate’s 
own words, constructing sentences so as to give the meanings of the given 
words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, deﬁ ning idioms, spellings

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3196
Question Paper Syllabus
Translator 
(Tamil/ 
English)
1. Translation- 
Tamil to English
Translating 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientiﬁ c, 
technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from Tamil 
Language to English Language.
2. Translation- 
English to Tamil
Translating 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientiﬁ c, 
technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from English 
Language to Tamil Language.
3. Tamil Language Writing an essay, writing a precis, summarizing a given passage using the 
candidate’s own words, constructing sentences so as to give the meanings 
of the given words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, deﬁ ning 
idioms, spellings
4. English
 
Language
Writing an essay, writing a precis, summarizing a given passage, 
constructing sentences so as to give the meanings of the given words, 
correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, deﬁ ning idioms, spellings
09. Punishment for providing false information.– Candidates should carefully provide accurate information when ﬁ lling 
the application. In accordance with the rules of this examination, if a candidate is revealed to be not quali ﬁ ed, his/ her 
candidature is liable to .be cancelled at any time, before, after or during the examination. If certain information furnished 
by a candidate is revealed to be false on any occasion, he/she is liable to be dismissed from the public service. Issuance of 
an admission card by the Commissioner General of Of ﬁ cial Languages shall not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
satisﬁ ed all the requirements to sit for the examination. Candidates should abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Ofﬁ cial Languages regarding the examination. In case of violation of any such rule, he/she shall be subject to any 
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Ofﬁ cial Languages.
10. In case of any inconsistencies or discrepancies between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notiﬁ cation, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
11. Examination fee.– The examination fee is Rs.1000/=. Payment of examination fee can be made at any Divisional 
Secretariat or District Secretariat to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-99-00 of the Director General, Treasury 
Operations. The receipt obtained for the payment of the examination fees from the Divisional/District Secretariat should 
be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form.(It is advisable to retain a photocopy of the same with you) Under no 
circumstance the examination fee will be refunded.
12. Candidates should carefully provide the accurate information when ﬁ lling the application. If a candidate is found to 
be disqualiﬁ ed in accordance with the rules of this Recruitment Examination his/ her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any time, before, after or during the examination. If it is revealed after appointment to the post that some information given 
is incorrect, he/she will be dismissed from the public service.
13. The application should be prepared using A4 (24x29 cm) size papers as follows :
(a) Section 1 to 3.4 on the ﬁ rst page, and
(b) Section 4 onwards in the next pages
(c) When preparing the application, the title of the examination should be in both Sinhala and English Languages in 
applications prepared in Sinhala and in both Tamil and English in applications prepared in Tamil. The application 
should be clearly ﬁ lled in the candidate’s handwriting.
13.1 The top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application form is enclosed should carry the words 
“Recruitment to the Post of Translator (Sinhala/English)(Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil) - 2019”.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3197
 13.2 The duly perfected application should be sent under registered cover to reach the following address on or before 
11/10/2019. Late applications will not be entertained.
  Commissioner General of Of ﬁ cial Languages.
  Department of Of ﬁ cial Languages,
  No. 341/7,
  Kotte Road, 
  Rajagiriya.
 13.3 The signature of the applicant given in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a 
Government School, a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Ofﬁ cer 
in the Armed Forces, or Staff Ofﬁ cer of Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
 
 13.4 Those who are already in the public service should send the applications through their respective Heads of 
Department / Institution.
14. Any of the following documents should be produced to the Supervisor of Examination, to establish the identity of the 
candidate.
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport.
15. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Commissioner General of Ofﬁ cial Languages. All candidates are 
bound to comply with the general rules published in this Gazette.
 PRINCE SENADEERA,  
 Commissioner General of Of ﬁ cial Languages, 
 Department of Of ﬁ cial Languages.  
No. 341/7, Kotte Road, 
 Rajagiriya.
20th September, 2019.
MODEL APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF TRANSLATOR (SINHALA/ENGLISH) (TAMIL/ENGLISH) AND (SINHALA/TAMIL)
 For Ofﬁ ce Use
The post applied :  1. Translator (Sinhala / English)
(Mention the relevant number) 2. Translator (Tamil / English)
  3. Translator (Sinhala/Tamil)
01. Name:
   1.1. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss  :––––––––––––––. (In block capitals)
   1.2.  Full Name :––––––––––––––. (In block capitals)
   1.3.  Full Name :––––––––––––––. 
    (In Sinhala/Tamil)
   1.4.  National Identity Card Number :-
02. Address:
   2.1.  Permanent address :––––––––––––––. (In block capitals)
   2.2.  Of ﬁ cial address :––––––––––––––. (In block capitals)
   2.3.  Of ﬁ cial address :––––––––––––––.
    (In Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3198
   2.4.  Address to which the Admission Card should be posted :––––––––––––––. (in block capitals)
   2.5. Telephone number :––––––––––––––.
   2.6. District of the candidate’s permanent residence :––––––––––––––.
   2.7. Duration of residence :––––––––––––––.
   2.8. Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––––––––. 
03.    3.1.  Gender :- Female - 1 Male - 0   (Write the relevant number)
   3.2. Civil Status :- Married -1  Unmarried- 2  (Write the relevant number)
   3.3. Date of Birth: - Year :            
Month :  Date :
   3.4. Age as at 11.10.2019 : Years :––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––. Days :––––––––––––.
04. Educational Quali ﬁ cations:-
  4.1  ( a) Degree :––––––––––––––. 
    ( b) Year in which the degree was obtained and the University :––––––––––––––.
    ( c) Subjects followed for the degree :––––––––––––––. 
 4.2   G.C.E. (A/L) :
   (i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––––. 
   (ii) Index No. :––––––––––––––.
   (iii)  Results :
Subjects Grade
 4.3 G.C.E. (O/L) :
   (i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––––. 
   (ii) Index No. :––––––––––––––.
   (iii)  Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
05. Have you ever been convicted guilty by any court of law? :
 (Mark  in the relevant cage)
    Yes    No
 Indicate particulars, if the answer is yes :––––––––––––––.
06. Examination fees:
   i.  Of ﬁ ce in which the examination fee is paid :––––––––––––––.
   ii.  Receipt number and date :––––––––––––––. 
   iii. Amount paid :––––––––––––––. 
The receipt obtained for the payment should be pasted here. (Please keep a photocopy of the samewith you)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3199
07. Certiﬁ cation by the candidate :
I hereby declare that information furnished by me is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and further, 
I agree with any decision made to cancel my candidature during, before or after the examination, if I am found to be 
disqualiﬁ ed in accordance with the conditions of this recruitment examination.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Attestation of the signature
I hereby certify that ..................................................................... who is forwarding this application i s personally 
known to me and she/he has placed his/her signature in my presence.
 –––––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––––––. Signature of the Attester.
 Name :––––––––––––––.
 Post :––––––––––––––.
 Of ﬁ cial Stamp :––––––––––––––.
(For those who are already in the Public Service)
Certiﬁ cation of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................................................................has been working in this 
ofﬁ ce since ......................................................... and his/her conduct and performance always remain up to my satisfaction 
and, I personally veriﬁ ed all the details mentioned hereof by associating his/ her personal ﬁ le records placed in this of ﬁ ce 
and, he/she put his/her signature in my presence. If he/she selected, he/she can/ cannot be released from the service.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––––––. Signature of the Head of the Department.
 Name :––––––––––––––.
 Post :––––––––––––––.
 Of ﬁ cial Stamp :––––––––––––––.
09–796
–––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF HEALTH,  NUTRITION  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE 
Departmental   Examination   for   Preliminary   Grade
Medical   Ofﬁ cers   and   Dental   Surgeons – September,  2019
IT is hereby notiﬁ ed that the Departmental Examination should be passed by Medical Ofﬁ cers in Preliminary Grade before 
promotion to Grade II, By Dental Surgeons before conﬁ rmation in the service and by the Medical Ofﬁ cers in Administrative 
Grade or Specialist Grade who have not completed previously this Departmental Examination during a period of two 
years from the date of appointment to such post as per Section 08 of the Medical Service Minute of Sri Lanka in the 
Health Services published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 
11.10.2014, will be held on 20.10.2019 in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The venue and the time of the examination 
will be notiﬁ ed along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualiﬁ cations.– Medical Ofﬁ cers in the Preliminary Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not con ﬁ rmed in the service can apply for this examination. Medical Of ﬁ cer appointed to a 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3200
post in the Administrative Grade or Specialist Grade previously without having completed this examination also can apply 
for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– Applications that should be prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of 
this circular must be handed over to the Head of the institute on or before 24.09.2019. The applications that are certi ﬁ ed as 
all the eligibilities have been ful ﬁ lled, should be forwarded to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and Indigenous Medicine, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or 
before 30.09.2019 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division should certify the accuracy of contents in each 
application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9” x 4” inches, afﬁ xed with stamps to the value of Rs. 45.00 should be 
sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their ofﬁ cial or private address). Applications which are received late, 
incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application 
so as to recommended from 01 to 04 (e) on the ﬁ rst front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the second page. 
Applications which do not conform to above will be rejected any information. 
04. Examination fees :
 I.  Candidates who sit the examination for the ﬁ rst time need not pay examination fees. However, in every 
subsequent sitting they should afﬁ x stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for 
in the application and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
 II. The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
 I.  Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly 
complete and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed 
to sit the examination.
 II.  Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the 
following documents will be accepted :
  ( a) National Identity Card ;
  ( b) A formal identity card issued by the Ministry of Health or a relevant institution ;
  ( c) Valid Driving License ;
  ( d) Valid Passport.
 III. If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination 
centre and the index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the 
index number as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web 
site together with a letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior ofﬁ cer and sit the examination 
by establishment of your identity. The applicants who have received the admission card should certify their 
signature and should be bought. The applicants who have obtained the certi ﬁ cation on their signature will 
not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the Examination. – The examination consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a Sinhala/Tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. A minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each part 
to pass the examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the examination 
in several sittings. At the ﬁ rst attempt ofﬁ cer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
07.1 Written Examination :

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3201
 07.1.1  Establishments Code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer ﬁ ve (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the Department of Health Services in Health Ministry ;
 (ii)  Orders and Regulations of the Public Service Commission ;
 (iii) Establishments Code :
Part I - Chapters VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII, XXIII, XXIV , XXV , XXVI, 
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII
Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
 07.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health Manual :
 (i) Administration of Hospital and Public Health, 
 (ii) Management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) Management of Drugs.
 07.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Of ﬁ cer of Health -  
Chapter I - F. R. 1, 2, 78.
Chapter II - F. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
Chapter III - F. R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
Chapter V - F. R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
Chapter VI - F. R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
Chapter VII - F. R. 488, 493.
Chapter XIII - F. R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
Chapter 1 - All Sections
Chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
Chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Vice - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff ofﬁ cers of the Departmental to measure the 
proﬁ ciency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium ofﬁ cers to communicate in Tamil medium and the 
ability of the Tamil medium ofﬁ cers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise while 
discharging their normal duties is tested. Duration 10 minutes. 
8. To follow the Regulations Related to Examination Procedure .– Candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate should 
attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate or obtain 
help from another candidate or person. Further Mobile phones and the similar electronic equipments should not be used. Any 
candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3202
9. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant of ﬁ cers in your Division/Specialized 
Campaign/Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– In case of any inconsistency between the texts Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala Language 
shall prevail.
 G EETHAMANI C. KARUNARATNE,
 Secretary ( Acting),
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
10th September, 2019.
Specimen Form of Application
For Ofﬁ ce Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY  GRADE
MEDICAL  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAL  SURGEONS - SEPTEMBER, 2019
01. (a)  (i)  Full Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Full Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals Block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (In English Block Letters) :
  (b)  (i)  Designation (Please mark ( ) in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Of ﬁ cer :   (ii) Dental Surgeon :
 (ii)  Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade II :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ ’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 Admin. of Hospitals and Dispensaries : Establishment Code :  Accounts :
 Sinhala Viva Voce : Tamil Viva Voce :
03. Medium you sit for the examination  (Mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                      English :                       Tamil :

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3203
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) This Institution belongs to :  Line Ministry :
       Provincial Council :
 ( b)   (i)  If Provincial Council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 ( c) Mobile Telephone No. :
 ( d) National Identity Card No. :
 ( e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or 
several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due 
to absence of a sufﬁ cient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers 
would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of 
Health Services).
  Colombo Kandana Hambantota Ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna Trincomalee
 ( f)  Whether two self-addressed envelopes in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps af ﬁ xed to the value of Rs. 45.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
 ( g)   (i)   Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
    ...........................................................
   (ii)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In English) :––––––––––––.
    ..........................................................
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the ﬁ rst time :––––––––––––.
 ( b)  If not so, have you afﬁ xed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certiﬁ cate of the Candidate :
 (i)  I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge 
and I need not af ﬁ x stamps since, I sit the Examination for the ﬁ rst time/have af ﬁ xed stamps to the value of                  
Rs. ………… since I repeat the Examination,
* and the stamps afﬁ xed by me to the application are genuine and 
not used.
 (ii)  I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine for the conduct of this Examination and if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the 
Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3204
07. Certiﬁ cation of the ofﬁ cer who handle the Personal File : 
I certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the applicant 
in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal ﬁ le and a copy of this application is 
attached to the personal ﬁ le. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certiﬁ cation of Head of Institution :
 
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................... serves as a ................................ in this in stitution, and the 
particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal ﬁ le, and he/
she sit the examination for the ﬁ rst time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature in 
my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of Institution.
 (Rubber Stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Certiﬁ cate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss ………...............................…… serves as a Medical Of ﬁ cer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/
Campaign* and the particulars furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars 
available in his/her* personal ﬁ le and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
 Specialized Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :––––––––––––.
(* - Delete words which are inapplicable)
09–828
–––––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Admission of Teachers who have passed the 
General Arts Qualifying (External) Examination 
with English as a subject and First Examination in 
Bachelor of Science (External) Degree Program to 
the Universities - Academic Year 2018/2019
APPLICATIONS are invited from teachers in Government 
and Government approved private schools, who have passed 
the General Arts Qualifying (External) Examination (with 
English as a subject) and the ﬁ rst Examination of Bachelor 
of Science (External) Degree Programme for admission to 
the Universities of Sri Lanka to follow the below-mentioned 
courses in the Academic Year 2018/2019.
 I. Bachelor of Arts (BA) Degree program with English 
as a subject.
 II. Bachelor of Science (BSc) Degree program.
2. The applicants should have completed the following 
qualiﬁ cations :
 I.  The teachers who expect to apply for the Arts 
Degree programs should have passed the General 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3205
Arts Qualifying (External) Examination (with 
English as a subject) and the ﬁ rst Examination 
of Bachelor of Science (External) Degree 
Programme held in or after the year 2014.
 II.  The teachers who expect to apply for the 
Bio-science, Physical Science or Applied 
Science programs should have passed the ﬁ rst 
Examination of Bachelor of Science (External) 
Degree Programme held in or after the year 2014.
 III. Should have completed a service period of ﬁ ve 
years as a teacher as at the last date of receiving 
applications. Also, the relevant teaching 
appointment should have been conﬁ rmed.
 IV . Should not have already been registered to 
follow courses in a Teachers’ Training College, a 
National College of Education, and a University 
or in the National Institute of Education.
 V . In case of the Bio-science, Physical Science or 
Applied Science programs of a certain university, 
the applicants should have obtained the passes 
for the subjects speci ﬁ ed to be a prerequisite by 
the relevant university at the G.C.E. (Advanced 
Level) Examination or at the ﬁ rst Examination of 
Bachelor of Science (External) Degree Programme 
to be qualiﬁ ed for the relevant program.
 VI. Only the teachers entitled for study leave should 
forward their applications as study leave has to be 
granted to them in case they are selected for the 
course.
03. Selection for admission will be based on the total 
marks obtained in the General Arts Qualifying Examination 
(External) or ﬁ rst Examination of Bachelor of Science 
(External) Degree Programme, the marks obtained for the 
relevant subject and in the marks obtained at the interview 
conducted by the University Grants Commission.
04. The entitlements to full pay study leave will be 
examined at the interview.
05. This Ministry is not bound with the responsibility to 
provide graduate teaching appointments after the award of 
the Degrees.
06. In the applications forwarded by teachers in 
government approved private schools, whether the full pay 
study leave for the relevant teacher can be allowed / cannot 
be allowed should be stated by the Principal / Manager of 
the school.
07. Applications of teachers in Government Schools 
should be certi ﬁ ed by the Principal, Zonal Director of 
Education and the Provincial Director of Education and 
those of teachers in government approved private schools 
by the Principal / Manager of the relevant schools.
All applications should be prepared in accordance with 
the specimen form provided herewith and forwarded in two 
(02) copies under registered post to the Secretary, Ministry 
of Education, “Isurupaya”, Battaramulla, before 21.10.2019. 
The caption “Applications for admission to Universities in 
Sri Lanka 2018 /2019 (For Teachers)" should be clearly 
written on the top-left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application.
 M.N. R
ANASINGHE,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
 For Ofﬁ cial Use Only
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ADMISSION OF TEACHERS WHO HA VE PASSED 
THE GENERAL ARTS QUALIFYING
(EXTERNAL) EXAMINATION HA VING 
OFFERED ENGLISH AS A SUBJECT OR 
FIRST EXAMINATION IN BACHELOR OF 
SCIENCE(EXTERNAL) DEGREE PROGRAMME 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2018/2019
 1.   (i)  Name with initials :–––––––––––.
   (ii)  Name in full :–––––––––––.
 2. Sex: :–––––––––––.
 3.   (i)  Post :–––––––––––.
    (ii)  Grade :–––––––––––.
 4. Address :
    (i) Of ﬁ cial :–––––––––––. 
    (ii) Private :–––––––––––.
 5. Telephone: 
    (i)  Residence :–––––––––––.
   (ii) Mobile :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.09.2019
3206
 6. E-mail :–––––––––––.
 7.  Present place of work:
    (i) School :–––––––––––. 
    (ii) Zone :–––––––––––.
   (iii) District :–––––––––––. 
   (iv) Province :–––––––––––. 
 8.   (i) Date of ﬁ rst appointment: :–––––––––––.
    (ii) Date of con ﬁ rmation :–––––––––––.
   (iii) Period of service (from the date of appointment to 
     the closing date of applications) :
     Days :––––––.  Months :––––––.   Years :––––––.
 9.  Registration Number as a Teacher :–––––––––––.
 10.   (i)  Date of Birth :
     Date :–––––––.  Month :–––––––. Year :–––––––.
    (ii) Age (as at closing date of applications):  
   Days :––––––.  Months :––––––. Years :––––––.
 11. Details of qualifying Examination (A certi ﬁ ed copy 
of the results sheet issued by the University should be 
attached) :
    (i) Examination :–––––––––––.
    (ii) University :–––––––––––.
    (iii) Results :
Subject Year 
Qualiﬁ ed Marks Grades
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
 12.  Name of the Degree Programme and subjects you wish 
to follow:
    (i) Name of the Degree :–––––––––––.
    (ii) Subjects:  1. ...............................
       2. ...............................
      3 . ...............................
 13. If selected, indicate the Universities you wish to admit 
according to your order of preference:
    1. ............................. 2.  ............................. 
    3. ............................. 4.  ............................. 
 14.  State whether you have already registered to follow 
another course in any Teachers'Training College, 
College of Education, University or National Institute 
of Education :–––––––––––.
  If "Yes" provide details :–––––––––––.
I certify that the above particulars are true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
I Certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Ms. ................................... is 
serving as a ........................................ (Post/Grade) at ......
........................................ (Name of the school) with effect 
from .............................. and his/her last salary was paid 
from this school. He/She can be/cannot be released to follow 
the above course of study.
I approve/do not approve the study leave required for the 
applicant (if you do not recommend study leave, please give 
reasons) :–––––––––––.
Recommended/Not Recommended :
Date :–––––––––––. ––––––––––––,
Address :–––––––––––. The Principal,
 (Signature and the Of ﬁ cial Seal)
Recommended/Not Recommended :
Date :–––––––––––. ––––––––––––,
Address :–––––––––––. Zonal Director,
 (Signature and the Of ﬁ cial Seal)
Recommended/Not Recommended :
Date :–––––––––––. ––––––––––––,
Address :–––––––––––. Provincial Director,
 (Signature and the Of ﬁ cial Seal)
09–1001
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.