

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2887
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2886 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"358 – 2023 fkdjeïn¾ ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'11'10
No. 2,358  –  fRiday,  NoVEmbER 10, 2023
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st december, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th November, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2883- b 082512 - 5,403 (11/2023)
N. B.–   Part iV(a)  of the Gazette No. 2356 of  27.10.2023 was not published. 
Part I : Section (IIA)(E) 
T -10 (SS)
3rd Reading (Pages 1 -13 )  
Note : My Dream Jaffna Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of october 27, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2884
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2885
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2886
Posts - v acant 
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ' S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages (Sinhala)
aNURadHaPURa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant muslim marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of muslim marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in Secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari division of the relevant division of muslim marriage, 
relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in 
public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the 
Schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said "annex-01" inclusive of Village Name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 11
th  of december, 2023 by registered post to the 
address given in the Schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
on this 20th day of october, 2023.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2887
Schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Application are 
called
Address to which Application 
should be sent
anuradhapura Horowpathana Post of muslim marriages Registrar of 
Kapugollewa area of Hurulu Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura.
anuradhapura mihinthale Post of muslim marriages Registrar of Kayipitiyawa 
area of Nuwaragam Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura
anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of muslim marriages Registrar of madatugama 
area of Kalagam Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura
anuradhapura ipalogama Post of muslim marriages Registrar of Kalawewa 
area of Kalagam Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura
anuradhapura Kahatagasdigiliya Post of muslim marriages Registrar of 
Nelugollakada area of Hurulu Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura
11-127
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTR y  Of  PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION   
hOmE   Aff AIRS ,  PROvINCIAL   
COuNCILS   AND  LOCAL  GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 
III of Management Service Officers' Service - 
2014(I)2023  
1.0. it  is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade III of Management Service 
Officers' Service will be held by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations, as per the relevant provisions 
of the approved Service minutes, in the month of 
february 2024. the relevant application is published 
on the website of the department of Examinations 
of Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk  and the applications 
can only be submitted online. once the application 
is submitted online, it should be downloaded and the 
printed copy of the same should be sent along with the 
attestation of the Head of the institution, if relevant, 
after attesting the signature of the applicant, by 
registered post to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations, institutional Examinations organization 
branch, department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,  
P. o. box 1503, colombo on or before the closing date 
of applications. the top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should clearly bear the words 
"Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of 
Management Service Officers' Service – 2014(I)2023". 
the closing date of applications is 11
th  of December 
2023.
2.0. information on the eligibility of the candidates are 
furnished in provisions of Para 8, 15 interim provisions 
and annex 04 of the approved service minute of 
Management Service Officers' Service published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 
11.12.2013.
3.0. Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar 
prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service minute, 
which was effective before the new service minute came 
into effect, but either have passed or been exempted from 
one or several subjects of the examinations – (I) Office 
Systems (2) accounting Systems and (3) computer t est 
shall be exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency 
Bar Examination on the basis of a subject by subject 
prescribed by this service minute for the officers in 
Grade III. Officers should pass this examination within 
three years from the date of appointment.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2888
4.0. This examination for officers in Grade III of 
Management Service Officers' Service will be held in 
Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, 
anuradhapura, badulla and Ratnapura. the relevant 
towns and town numbers are given below. it will not be 
allowed to change the town applied for subsequently. 
On the occasions, where a sufficient number of 
applications have not been  received in respect of a 
certain centre mentioned above, the examination shall 
be held only in colombo by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. 
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Ratnapura 09
 
 A centre without sufficient number of candidates will be 
cancelled and the relevant candidates will be directed to 
the next nearest center available.
 5.0. (i)  this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him.
 (ii) the rules and regulations for candidates have been 
separately printed in the Gazette Notification. 
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations.
6.0. the post and service station of the candidate, at the time 
he/she applies for the examination will be applicable for 
all matters relating to the examination, and any changes 
which occur in the post and service station after sending 
the application will not be considered.
Note.-  In order to identify the applications of the officers in 
the provincial public Service and other institutions 
who apply for this examination conveniently, a code 
number should be entered on the top of the application 
to indicate the relevant service or institution. 
accordingly, for the officers in combined service 
code number is 10. (the responsibility is not taken 
for the issues caused by the non-submission of the 
correct number.)
7.0. identity of the candidates – candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject 
they offer. For this purpose, one of the following 
documents should be submitted to the supervisor. 
 
 (i).  National Identity Card ;
 (ii).  A valid passport ;
 (iii).  Valid driving license in Sri Lanka.
 the candidature of those who fail to produce any 
of the above mentioned identity cards may be 
cancelled at the discretion of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. candidates should enter 
the examination hall without covering face and ears 
enabling to verify the identity. those who refuse to 
verify their identity as such shall not be permitted to 
enter the examination hall. further, candidates should 
remain with their face and ears uncovered until they 
leave the examination hall enabling the examination 
supervisors to confirm their identity.
8.0. (i)  application - online Examination application 
should strictly be filled in English. Once the 
department of Examination receives both the soft 
copy of the application submitted online and the 
printed copy of the application sent via registered 
post, the soft copy and the printed copy will be 
verified and the candidates will be notified via 
SmS to the mobile phone number used to access 
the system or via email whether the application 
was accepted/ not accepted by the department as 
a valid application. before completing the online 
application you should download the common 
instructions sheet, and the instruction should be 
strictly followed. any alteration done after taking 
the printout of the application will not be considered 
as a valid modification. Incomplete applications 
will be rejected without any notice.
 (ii) Penalty for furnishing false information - 
application should be perfected very carefully 
with correct information. if a candidate is found 
to be ineligible in accordance with the rules and 
regulations of this examination, his/her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, during 
or after the examination.
 (iii) the candidates appearing for the examination 
for the first time need not pay examination fees. 
However, for subsequent sittings, Rs. 200/- per 
subject should be paid. Payments should be made 
only via following methods of payments provided 
by the online system.
 (i).  Any Bank Credit Cards;
 (ii). Any Bank Debit Cards;
 (iii).  Bank of Ceylon Online Banking Method;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2889
 (iv). bank of ceylon Slip Payment.
Note.-  instructions on making payment through above 
methods are published under technical instructions 
relevant to the examination on the web site. Receipt 
of payment will be notified via an SmS or email. 
the total of the examination fees should be paid 
and the applications with payment of lesser or 
higher amounts shall be rejected. Department 
of Examination shall not be responsible for any 
error occurs during the payment of examination 
fees via above methods of payments. Under no 
circumstances the examination fee will be refunded 
or transferred to pay any other examination fee.  
9.0. the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards 
to the officers who have sent the applications on 
or before the closing date, which are perfected 
accurately along with the receipt obtained by paying 
the examination fee on the supposition that only 
those who possess the qualifications indicated in the 
Gazette notification have applied. A notification will 
be published in newspapers as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates by the department 
of Examinations. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department institutional 
Examinations organization branch of the department 
of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. When informing, the name of the 
examination applied for, full name, Nic number 
and address of the candidate shall be indicated. it 
would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number 
of the candidate to the department of Examinations 
through the fax number mentioning the notification 
for sending a copy of the admission. further, it would 
be advisable to keep a copy of the application, copy 
of the receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the receipt of registration of the application to 
prove any information requested by the department 
of Examinations.
10.0. issuance of admission card to an applicant does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination or for a post. 
the admission card in which the signature has been 
attested should be produced to the supervisor of the 
examination center on the first day of the examination. 
candidates without admission cards will not be 
permitted to sit for the examination. the Heads of 
Department should approve duty leave for officers 
to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations to enable 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling 
expenses will be paid.
 
 10.1 the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been 
attested by the Head of the institution or an 
officer authorized by him.
11.0. this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
& English media. The officers may sit for this 
examination either in the language medium in which 
they sat for the entry examination to the service or in 
one of the official languages. Candidates who entered 
the service without a competitive examination may sit 
for the examination in their medium of education or in 
one of the official languages. The language medium of 
examination, mentioned originally in the application, 
cannot be changed subsequently.
12.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject at 
different occasions at their discretion. However they 
should score at least forty (40%) of the total marks for 
each subject, for a pass.
13.0.  commissioner General of Examinations will release 
the results of the examination to the director 
General of combined Services and the results will 
be published in the website of ministry of Public, 
Provincial Council Administration, Home Affairs and 
Local Government.
14.0. Examination Procedure : candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the 
following subjects.
 Subject  Subject No. Marks  Duration
1.  Office systems  01 100 02 Hrs
2. accounting  02 100 02 Hrs
 Systems
3. computer test 03 100 1 1/2 Hrs
14.1. Office Systems (Subject No. 01)
 this paper shall be designed to test the 
candidate's basic knowledge on office systems 
adopted in government offices and practical 
use of that knowledge, proper understanding of 
official documents and the ability of presenting 
the ideas/observations in clear and brief minutes 
and the ability of drafting a letter according to 
an order given to the officer. This paper will 
consist of two parts.
Part i  -  consists of questions that require short 
answers. answers should be provided on 
the paper itself. all the questions should 
be answered. (25 marks).
Part ii  -  a question paper of structured essay 
type. 03 out of 04 questions should be 
answered. (75 marks).

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2890
14.2. Accounting Systems (Subject No. : 02)
 it is expected to test candidate's knowledge in 
accounting Systems adopted in government 
offices, functions of books and records of 
controlling accounts. Paper will consist of two 
parts.
Part i  -  consists of questions that require short 
answers. answers should be provided on 
the paper itself. all the questions should 
be answered. (25 marks).
Part ii  -  a question paper of structured essay 
type. 03 out of 04 questions should be 
answered. (75 marks)
14.3. Computer Test (Subject No. : 03)
 Objective of this test is to verify the candidate's 
skills on the following.
 i.  Basic concepts of Information Technology; 
 ii.  Windows Operating System;
 iii.  Folder Management;
 iv. Word Processing;
  basic skills, Screen familiarization, 
Editing texts, aligning text, fronts  and 
attributes, indenting Paragraphs, sub 
paragraphs, change of Line Spacing, 
tab settings, finding and replacing 
text, Spelling and Grammar, thesaurus, 
Working with columns, Page setup, 
Printing documents, creating tables, 
Sorting text, file management, mail 
merging, Working with macros.
 v. Spreadsheets 
  basic skills
  formatting
  Editing columns and ranges, insertion 
    and deletion
  Sorting data
  creating charts
  Printing
  @ function
  Working with macros, file management
 vi. internet and E-mail
  introduction to internet, basic skills 
receiving mail sending mail, responding 
   to mails
  Working with attachments creating and 
using nicknames composing messages
  this paper consists of two parts.
Part i  -  consists of 40 questions of mcQ type 
that require short answers. duration 45 
minutes (40 marks).
Part ii  - 05 semi structured questions. duration 45 
minutes. (60 marks)
15.0. all applicants are bound to comply with the rules and 
regulation imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination with regard to the conducting of this 
examination and issuing results. further, candidates 
will be subjected to the punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of examinations for violation 
of those rules and regulations.
16.0. the decision of the director General of combined 
Services will be final in any matter not provided for in 
this notification.
17.0. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Examination 
Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 S. Alokabandara,
   director General of combined Services.
   
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
25th october, 2023.
11-124
DEPARTmENT   Of  ChRISTIAN   
RELIGIOuS   AffAIRS
Catholic Sunday School Final Certificate 
Examination - 2023
tHE coNStitUtioN  aNd tHE  SyLLabUS
tHE arrangements have been made to conduct the final 
Catholic Catechetical Certificate Examination, in the month 
of July 2023 and this will cover the years 2020 to 2022.
 02.  Examination centres :- the centres for Examination 
will be set up according to the number of candidates 
in each district to cover the whole island. in case, 
if there is no sufficient number of candidates in 
a district, the centre will be eliminated and the 
candidates will be directed to the nearby centre. a 
list is attached showing the districts and cities where 
examination centres will be set up.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2891
 03. Language Medium .- this examination will be 
conducted in Sinhala, tamil and in English only. a 
candidates can choose one medium.
 04. Qualifications .- Each of the candidates applying 
for this examination must have fulfilled any of the 
following qualifications.
 4.1 Should be passed the grade 10 catecatical 
examination and followed studies at least for 
one year or more in a class of a final Catholic 
Catechetical Certificate Examination. 
 4.2 a  pass for catholicism in the General 
Certificate of Examination (Ordinary Level)
 4.3 a  pass in grade 11 of the diocesan annual 
catechetical examination.
 Note :- i. Each candidate presenting for this 
examination with qualification must 
be certified by the principal or by the 
parish priest as mentioned in the 4
th  
clause.
 ii. only the Sunday School candidates 
are eligible to apply for this 
examination.
 05. method of applying :-
 5.1 only the online application will be accepted 
for this examination.
 5.2 through all the catechetical teaching centres 
(parishes) of final certificate of catechetical 
examination that are registered the 
department of Examinations will issue user 
name and password of relevant examination 
instructions and timetables in future.
 5.3 No candidate will be permitted to present 
for the examination externally. However, a 
candidate who fulfills the qualifications of 
the 4
th clause can apply for the examination 
by paying an examination fee of Rs. 200. the 
necessary instruction will be given to all the  
principals of the Sunday Schools.
 5.4 the respective principals will present the 
applications only through online.
 5.5 the closing date to send the applications will 
be on 20
th of November 2023 till 9.00 p.m.
 5.6 Applications must be filled clearly and 
correctly. the name should be written as in 
the birth certificate. In case of failure to fill 
it correctly the applications will be rejected 
without any communication.
 5.7 the date you provided through online server 
will be considered as final.
 5.8 computer number and address of Sunday 
School should be mentioned correctly. any 
change of address should be reported. if 
telephone is available, please the number as 
well.
 5.9 the principal or the Parish Priest should take 
the full responsibility of the eligibility of the 
applicant and relevant certificates.
 06. examination Fee .- the examination fee is Rs. 200. 
The first-time applicants are exempted from this fee. 
those who have got a weak pass must pay Rs. 50 for 
each subject of the examination.
 6.1 Payment of examination Fees .- the principal 
has to collect all the fees of the applicants and 
send through a below mentioned method :
1. bank credit card. (any bank credit 
card)
2. band debit card. (any debit card with 
the facility of internet transaction)
 6.2 Refund fee  .- fees paid for this examination 
will not be transferred or refunded for any 
other exam for any reason.
 07.  Admissions .- all the applicants will be given an 
admission paper through online by the commissioner 
General of Examinations through the respective 
principals of the catechism.
 7.1 Each candidate must present his/her admission 
with his/her signature to the person in-charge 
of the hall. if the candidate does not present 
the signed admission or if the candidate 
does present to another examination hall 
designated by the commission General of 
Examinations will be cancelled.
 7.2 the admission must be signed by the applicant 
and attested by the principal or parish priest.
 7.3 if the candidate has not received the 
admission prior to 7 days, the principal 
must immediately inform the commissioner 
General of Examinations. in all such cases 
the following particulars should be furnished. 
 1. Name of Examination:
 2. Name of the Sunday School:

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2892
 3. the computer registration number given to 
the Sunday School: 
 4. full name and address of the applicant:
 5. Examination centre/city applied for:
 08. Identification .- at the time of sitting for each paper 
the candidates must submit one of the following 
documents to the person in-charge of the hall for 
verification of their identity.
 8.1  National identity card.
 8.2  Valid Passport
 8.3  Valid driving License 
 09. The decision of pass and publishing the final results :-
There are four subjects to be faced in this 
examination. in order to get through the 
examination, the candidates must get through all 
the four subjects. However, if only one of the four 
subjects is passed, it will be considered as weak 
pass. those who have a weak pass must sit for the 
examination within two (2) years and they must sit 
again only in the subject that they obtained a weak 
pass.
 9.1 100 marks for each paper. marks are given as 
follows :
Point Scheme
 marks range Grade
0-34 fail f
35-54 Simple Pass S
55-69 credit c
70-100 distinction d
 9.2 the results of the candidates will be sent by 
post to the principals of the respective Sunday 
School.
 10. Certificates .- The Certificates will be sent by post 
to the respective principals of the Sunday Schools. if 
candidate does not receive a certificate after passing 
the exams, it should be informed is the following 
address through principals. commissioner General, 
the department of Examinations, institutional 
Exams, P. Box; 1503, Colombo.
 11. Re-correction of the answer papers  .- 
  the re-correction of the answer paper will be allowed 
only if it is requested by the principals. y ou can apply 
for  re-correction through sending the model form 
issued by the department of Examinations within 30 
days of the publishing of the examination results. the 
fee shall be revised from time to time and shall be paid 
in the amount specified in the relevant application 
form. the re-correction fee will refund only if there 
is a change in the final result. The candidates or any 
other representative will not be allowed to examine 
the paper for any reason.
 12. Syllabus and the model question papers :-
  for syllabus please refer the syllabus of the Sunday 
School Final Certificate Examination, model 
question papers please contact the director, National 
catechetical centre, balcolm Place, cotta Road, 
colombo 8 or telephone number, 0112685459.
  all applicants are bound to act in accordance with 
the above conditions and instructions. on matters not 
mentioned herein the examinations will be decided 
by the commissioner General.
 13. all the candidates are bound to act in accordance with 
this constitution and the norms of the syllabus. any 
matter subject to the provisions herein mentioned 
will be decided at the discretion of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
 14. Necessary instructions will be sent in the future 
to all the Sunday Schools registered under the 
Department of Examinations for the final certificate 
examination of the catholic Sunday School. if there 
is any inconsistency discovered in translation of this 
information, Sinhala medium translation will be 
followed for procedures. 
 M. Chathuri Pinto,
 director,
 Department of Christian Religious Affairs.
10
th  of November 2023,
3rd  floor, No. 180,
t. b. Jaya mawatha,
colombo 10,
Department of Christian Religious Affairs.
Christianity
(Syllabus for the examination held from 2007 onwards).
the examination consists of 4 papers and each with 3 hours 
of duration.
Question Paper I
tHE catHoLic faitH
a) this paper is based on the basic teaching of the 
apostles' creed.
•	 creator
 the beginning of the Universe

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2893
 The beauty of the creation
 Safeguard the Creation  
(Genesis 1, 2, 3)
•	 Redeemer 
 Jesus Christ, (John 1:1-14)
 Teachings on the Kingdom  
(Matthew 5, 6, 7)
 Parables (Matthew 13:1-52)
 Miracles (John 11:38-45)
 Luke 8:26-39
 Mark 2:1-12
 Mark 4:35-41
•	 The work of Holy Spirit (John 7:37-
39, 14:15-31, 16:5-15, 1 Corinthians  
12:4-11)
 
•	 The Catholic Church
 Oneness, Holiness, Catholicity, and 
Apostolicity. The Church as the body 
of Christ. Romans 12:4-21
 1 Corinthians 12:12-32
 The administration of the church
 Ordained ministry
 Religious Ministry
 Lay Ministry
•	 The transforming mission
	 The	final	mission	of	man
 The new heavens and the new earth 
(Revelation 21:1-4)
Question Paper II
(b) The Christian way of life is sustained by the 
liturgy
- The Holy Mass and the rite of the Holy 
Mass
- Passover mystery –
- Grace (general characteristics)
Sacraments of initiation
- Baptism
-	 Confirmation
- Holy Communion
Sacraments of healing
- Reconciliation
- Anointing of the sick
Sacraments of service
- Ordination to the sacred Ministry
- Marriage
Question Paper III
Catholic Moral Life
(c) Catholic Moral Life
- Ten Commandments and two sides of the 
commandments of Love
-	 Jesus	Christ	Fulfilled	the	Ten	
Commandments (Mathew 5:21-47 
Sermon on Mount (Luke 6:17-49)
- Intelligence, Free Will and Emotions
- Theological virtues
- Conscience
- To love God (1-3 commandments)
- To love the neighbor (4-10 
commandments) -
- The morality that emerges from the 10 
commandment
- Catholic identity
Question Paper IV
Payer Life
(d) Prayer that develops relationship with God
-  Old Testament prayer
- Abraham
- Moses
 Prayers in the New Testament
- Special occasions where Jesus prayed
- Key lessons on prayer Luke 11:1-3
Prayer in the life of the Church
- Praise
- Thanksgiving
- Prayer
- Intercessory Prayer
- Meditational Prayer
7 Petitions of Our Father
- Hallowed be thy name
- Thy kingdom come – Thy will be done on 
earth as it is in heaven
- Give us this day our daily bread
- Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive 
those who trespass against us
- Lead us not into temptation
- Deliver us from evil
Various devotional practices
- Reciting of the Holy Rosary
- Novena
- Holy Hours
Additional text to be consulted –
Bible	(specific	passages)
- The Catechism of the Catholic Church
- Documents of the Second Vatican Council

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'11'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2023
2894
PRINTED   AT  THE  DEPARTMENT   OF  GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,   SRI  LANKA.
- Guadium et spes
- Lumen Gentium
- Christifidelislaicis
Table 1
City and the city number where examination 
centers will be set up in those districts.
City & City 
Number
Town 
Number
Town
01 Colombo 103 Borella
109 Moratuwa
111 Homagama
112 Awissawella
113 Kaluaggala
114 Pannipitiya
02 Gampaha 201 Gampaha
205 Negombo
208 Kandana
209 Ragama
03 Kalutara 301 Kalutara
04 Kandy 401 Kandy
05 Matale 501 Matale
06 Nuwara Eliya 601 Nuwara Eliya
609 Thalawakele
07 Galle 701 Galle
08 Matara 801 Matara
09 Hambantota 901 Hambantota
904 Tangalle
10
	Jaffna 1001 Jaffna
1002 Maanippai
1005 Point Pedro
1007 Delf
11 Mannar
1101 Mannar
1102 Murungan
1103 Aandankulam
1104 Periya Pandivrivsan
12 Vavuniya 1201 Vavunia
13 Mullativu 1301 Mullativu
1302 Mulangawil
14 Kilinochchi 1401 Kilinochchi
15 Batticaloa 1501 Batticaloa
16 Ampara 1601 Ampara
1605 Kalmunai
17 Trincomalee 1701 Trincomalee
18 Kurunegala 1801 Kurunegala
1805 Kuliyapitiya
1807 Nikaweratiya
19 Puttalam 1901 Puttalam
1903 Chilaw
1904 Wennappuwa
20 Anuradhapura 2001 Anuradhapura
21 Polonnaruwa 2101 Polonnaruwa
2103 Higurakgoda
City & City 
Number
Town 
Number
Town
22 Badulla 2201 Badulla
23 Monaragala 2301 Monaragala
24 Ratnapura 2401 Ratnapura
25 Kegalle 2501 Kegalle
11-214
MInIstry  of  PlantatIon  Industr Ies
national Institute of Plantation Management - 
athurugiriya
ADMISSION  OF STuDENTS  FOR THE ACADEMIC  
y EAR - 2023/2024
THE National Institute of Plantation Management is under 
the purview of the Ministry of Plantation Industries which 
is the professional body of the Government of Sri Lanka, 
establish in 1979 by NIPM Act, No. 45 of 1979 with focus 
to
	elevate	professional	and	academic	qualifications	amongst	
Plantation Management & amp; supervisory personalities in 
the industry.
National Diploma in Plantation Crop Technology (NDPCT) 
NVQ Level 05
Duration : 01 y ear - Course Work
06 Months - In-plant training
Medium : English/Sinhala
Fee : Rs. 130,000
Entry
	Qualifications	
G.C.E (A/L) pass students from any stream or students
who have completed an NVQ 04 Level course related to
agriculture or horticulture can apply.
Application are invited for the above mentioned courses till 
25th november 2023 Applications should be forwarded 
through the website www.nipm.gov.lk or in the following 
format to the Director/CEO, National Institute of Plantation 
Management, M. D. H. Jayawardena Mawatha, Athurugiriya.
For further Details
011-2770232/0710645302
11-317