

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"062 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 09 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2018'03'09
No. 2,062 -  FRIDAY ,  MARCH  09, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 282
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         P
AGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ...   296
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
281 -
N.B.—    (i) Part IV (A) of the Gazette No.2,061 of 02.03.2018 was not published. 
 (ii) The list of Registered veterinary Surgeons up to 31.12.2017 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in English 
Language only
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  29th March, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th March, 2018.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81259 - 5,403 (03/2018)
Note.–  Chaya Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 23, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
282
Provincial Councils Notiﬁcations
My No: NWP/MORD/AD/7/7/3-1
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
STATUTE on the Road Passenger Transport Service Authority No ............... 2017 of the Provincial Council in the North 
Western Province. 
I do here by notify that the statute on the Road Passenger Transport Service Authority No ............. 2017 of the Provincial 
Council in the North Western Province published below will be tabled at the North Western Provincial Council after the 
lapse of thirty days from today. In case of any issue to be furnished regarding the provisions of this statute, such issues 
should be furnished to me before the aforesaid date.  
   Gunadasa Dehigama,
   Provincial Minister of Roads, Transport,
   Housing, Industrial and Rural Development.
   (North Western Province)
Ministry of Roads, Transport, Housing,
Industrial and Rural Development - North Western Province.
North Western Provincial Complex,
Ground Floor - Kurunegala.
ROAD  TRANSPORT  SERVICE  AUTHORITY  OF  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE
P
ROPOSED DRAFT OF STATUTE
AN statute to regularize passenger transport services and/or freight transport services through the roads by motor vehicles 
within North Western Province and to regularize the Provincial transport services linked with North Western Province which 
may sufﬁ cient to North Western Province, to establish a Transport Service Authority in order to achieve the aforesaid aims, to 
make provisions for matters connected therewith or incidental there to and to rescind the Road Passenger Transport  Service 
Statute No.04 of 1955 of North Western Province.
Be it enacted by North Western Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1 This statute shall be cited as the 2017 Statute of Road Passenger   Transport Service   
 Authority No. ……….. of the North Western Provincial Council.
2 This Statute may take effect from a date (hereinafter referred to as “due date”) which is approved  
 by the Governor of North Western Province by an order published in a  Gazette of Democratic  
 Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 
 PART I 
Road Transport Service Authority of North Western Province
3  The Road Passenger Transport Service Statute No. 04 of 1995 is hereby rescinded. 
4           I “An Authority of Road Transport Service Authority of the North Western 
  Province”  hereinafter   referred to as the Authority may be established. 
            II the authority shall by the name assigned to it by the above section 4 (1)  be a body 
  corporate shall have a perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be 
  sued in  that name.
5           I   The Provincial Authority shall consist of 7 members appointed by the Minister as follows.
            II    ( a) the members appointed ex of ﬁ cio under the approval of the minister and the members 
appointed by the minister are as  follows :
                      i. The Secretary of  North Western Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of Transport 
or a senior executive ofﬁ cer appointed by him.
Short Title
Effective date 
Establishment of 
the Authority 
Members of the 
Authority 

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
283
                     ii. A senior ofﬁ cer appointed by the Chief Minister in the North Western Province
                    iii. Senior Deputy Inspector General of the North Western Province or  a higher ranked  
ofﬁ cer not lower  than the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police’ 
                    iv. 4  persons  who have quali ﬁ ed in one or more subject ﬁ elds of Transport, Law, 
Management, Commerce, Administration or Civil Engineering and have a good expe-
rience and capacity in those subjects as satisﬁ ed by the minister. 
           III   All the members of the Authority shall be regularly appointed by the Minister through 
a letters issued under the signature of the Minister. “Such all appointments shall be 
notiﬁ ed in the 
Gazette Paper of the Government.”
6           I   From among the above members one member shall be appointed a Chairman of the  
   Authority by the minister.
              II  the tenure of ofﬁ ce of the chairman shall be the term of ofﬁ ce of the membership of  
   the authority and as far as the minster’s preference .
           III   In case the Chairman is unable to perform the duties of his ofﬁ ce due to a certain reason   
speciﬁ ed in Section 11 the Minster may appoint another member to act as the chairman. 
7   if any person 
              I  is a Member of Parliament, a member of any Provincial Council, or a member of a 
Local Government Institute. 
            II   is not a citizen of Sri Lanka. 
            III  has been determined as a person with mental disorders or as a person  totally
   disabled  by a recognized medical board. 
           IV  has been convicted guilty of an offence or a person subject to a criminal penalty by 
   any court of law in Sri Lanka Shall be disquali ﬁ ed. 
8            I  The minister shall satisfy himself before he appoint an individual as a member of the
    directorate to the effect that he has no any ﬁ nancial involvement with the authority 
   which could be lead to any adverse effect to his functions.
             II  The Minister shall ensure from time to time to the effect that no such involvement has
    made by a person appointed as a member of the directorate.
            III  A proposed member for the directorate by the Minister shall provide any information
    as may be necessary to the Minister for implementation of aforesaid function. 
           IV  A member who is directly or indirectly interested in an agreement made or may be  
   made by the authority shall be reveal the nature of his relationship in a meeting held  
   by the authority and it should be written in the record book and the member shall not  
   be participated in any conference or any decision made by the authority in that regard.
9      I  The chairman of the authority shall preside at every meeting of the directory board.  
   In the absence of the Chairman at any meeting a member shall be elected as the 
   Chairman from among the members present shall preside at the meeting. 
             II  The quorum of the meeting of the directory board shall be 3 members. 
           III  Every matter to be considered by the authority shall be decided at a meeting held  
   for directorate and those matters shall be approved by majority of members of   
   directorate  who cast the votes. 
           IV  If there any defect has been revealed when a member was selected for the directorate  
   and he was found to be not suitable for the of ﬁ ce, all the transactions done in the 
   meeting  in which he participated in shall be cancelled.
            V   No act or proceeding of the meeting shall be deemed invalid by reason only of having
   any vacancy of members of directorate.
Chairman of the 
Authority 
disqualiﬁ ca-
tions for being 
a member of the 
authority 
Financial 
involvements of 
the members 
Meetings of the 
directory board 

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
284
10   Every member of Provincial Authority shall hold of ﬁ ce for a period of 03 years unless 
any of them earlier resigns or is removed from the ofﬁ ce by the Minister under Sec.11 
or 13.Provided however that, if a new member is appointed to ﬁ ll any vacancy, he shall 
hold the ofﬁ ce for the unexpired period of term of ofﬁ ce of his predecessor. 
11   Where any member becomes by reason of illness or any other reason or absence from Sri 
Lanka temporarily unable to perform the duties in his ofﬁ ce, the minister may appoint 
a suitable person to act in his place for that period subjected to the provisions 5and 7.
12   Any member of the Provincial Authority at any time may resigned from his ofﬁ ce upon 
a written request made to the Minister.
13   Minister shall any time remove any member from his of ﬁ ce without reasons being as-
signed.
14   Any member vacating his ofﬁ ce upon the expiration of his term of of ﬁ ce or a member 
who has been resigned from his ofﬁ ce during the term of his ofﬁ ce may be re-appointed. 
Provided however that a member removed by the minister under Sec. 13  shall not be 
eligible for re-appointment.
15   Remuneration speciﬁ ed by the minister shall be paid to the members and the chairman 
with the concurrence of board of Provincial Ministers.
16         I   The chairman shall preside the meeting of Provincial Authority, when he participate in 
it. Where the chairman is absent for the meeting, any member among those who have 
present may be elected by the members and he shall preside the meeting.
            II   The directorate shall meet at least once in a month. The chairman shall convey a meeting 
when he deems it necessary or in case where 03 members of the authority have made a 
written request to do so.
           III  The Provincial Authority may enact/impose rules in respect of meetings and their trans-
actions subjected to the provisions of this statute.
17        I   Ofﬁ cial seal of the Provincial Authority shall be kept in the custody of the chairman of 
Provincial Authority.
           II    Seal may be altered as may be decided by the Provincial Authority.
          III    Stamping a document or an instrument by using the of ﬁ cial seal shall be made before 
02 members of Provincial Authority. One of them shall be the chairman of Provincial 
Authority .In witness whereof both members shall set their hands to that document and 
the instrument.
 PART II
18  Powers and Functions of Provincial Road Passenger Transport Service Authority 
            
  I   To be responsible for the quality of bus service (whether it meet the requirements of 
Public Passenger Transport),Prepare running charts ,take measures to ensure whether 
the drivers abide by the said time tables, approve the routes for which buses should be 
provided ,categorize and make decisions for constructing bus halts in roads runs within 
North Western Province.
Term of ofﬁ ce of 
the members
Appointment  of 
acting members
Resignation
Dismissal from 
the ofﬁ ce 
reinstatement 
Gratuity for the 
members of the 
Authority
Transactions 
of Provincial 
Authority
seal of the pro-
vincial authority 
Powers and 
functions
of Provincial 
Authority  
Powers and 
functions on 
passenger and 
freight transpor-
tation

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
285
          II (a) To issue passenger service permits by which authority is given to use buses ,renew 
or amend ,cancel and extend the validity period ,regularize the ownership of those 
permits and direct fees for issue of said permits in order to satisfy the requirements of 
passenger transport within the province
  (b) To implement the conditions under which passenger service permits are issued 
giving authority to use busses for passenger transportation and to ensure whether 
those conditions are followed by the vehicle users.
  (c)   To meet the passenger requirements ,regularize them ,to issue renew or amend 
,cancel and extend the validity period ,regularize the ownership of those permits 
and direct fees for issue of said permits in order to satisfy the requirements of 
passenger transport within the    province.
  III  To recommend standards required for passenger or freight transportation to the Minister 
which was not ordered by any other law about the ﬁ tness and quality of the vehicle 
maintained by passenger and /or freight transportation permit holder.
          IV   To direct an individual who has obtained a permit for freight transportation service or 
passenger transportation service under this statute or any other written law to provide 
information and records to the authority which may be required for a certain purpose 
under this statute.
           V   To issue a license for student transportation of schools , universities and other educa-
tional institutes for a fee, beneﬁ t or a gift within the province ,to amend ,cancel, and 
extend the validity period, regularize the ownership  of said license and to provide 
transport services under concessionary fees.
          VI   To regularize ofﬁ ce and factory workers’ transportation carried out by the buses or vans 
for a fee, beneﬁ t or a gift within the province, issue permits to maintain such passenger 
transport service, to amend ,cancel, extend the validity period ,regularize the ownership 
of the said permit and to prescribe the fees for such issue of permits
         VII   To issue permits for maintaining transportation services in order to regularize the 
services given by cabs, three wheelers upon a fee, beneﬁ t or free of charge within  the 
province to amend ,cancel, extend the validity period ,regularize the ownership of the 
said permit and to prescribe the fees for such issue of permits.
         VIII  To  recover fees for the outside motor vehicles entering in to or travel through North 
Western Province and engaging in freight transportation or passenger transportation 
for a fee, beneﬁ t or other fees, to control and regularize them.
          IX  To recommend as suitable, when the National Transport Commission or any other in-
stitutions seek for the recommendation regarding issue of permits, not to allow outside 
busses to enter without a permit issued udder the recommendation of this authority and 
take legal action against any unauthorized entry.
          X   To introduce new projects in order to development of passenger as well as the investors 
which leads to improvement of quality of passenger transport  service within North 
Western Province, to implement the projects and establish sub committees in this 
regard with the concurrence of the Minister in Charge of subject ,the secretary of said 
Ministry and with the approval of the Directorate
Powers and func-
tions on passenger 
and freight trans-
portation.
To issue passenger 
and freight trans-
portation permits.
Fitness of vehicles 
used for passenger 
and freight trans-
portation.
Providing infor-
mation.
School children 
transportation.
Transportation of 
ofﬁ ce workers and 
factory workers.
Transportation by 
tricycles and cabs.
Inter provincial 
transportation 
services.
Introducing new 
projects.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
286
          XI   To meet the common passenger requirements within the province , to direct scienti ﬁ c 
time tables as may be decided to be suitable by general, combined or authority for 
running buses, to direct all drivers that they should drive in compliance with the said 
time table, to direct place fees for the violators and to take legal actions.
        XII   To use three language (tri lingual usage) for name boards, marks and codes for initiation 
and destination which should be displayed in and outside of a bus.
        XIII   Registration of drivers ,conductors ,driver assistants who engage in  freight and passenger 
transportation of the drivers ,conductors and driver assistants who engage in freight  or 
passenger transportation under a permit issued by the authority or another license ,to 
issue Identity cards ,cancellation ,renewal and suspension of registration of the drivers 
,conductors and driver assistants.
        XIV   To establish groups of ﬂ ying squad in order to search for illegal actions committed 
against this statue (as regard to passenger/ freight transportation) within the province          
and to direct powers and functions of those groups.
         XV   To establish, manage, develop, change, close and legally acquire of vehicle parks.
      
  XVI  To identify and sort routes for which separate tariff could be introduced within the  
   province and to prescribe buses and other motor vehicles and the standard of the vehicle.
      
  XVII  To enter into agreements for the achievement of targets, aims and functions of authority 
   with an individual or an institution within or out of Sri Lanka subjected to provisions 
   of Constitution of Sri Lanka and any other law and to join any other institution to achieve 
   the aforesaid targets, aims.
      XVIII   To accept ﬁ nancial or material grants, donations , aids or subsidies and to use for the 
   sake of authority subjected to provisions of this statute.
        XIX   To initiate learning schools for learning schools for drivers, conductors, driver assistants 
   and to conduct training programs.
18.1   The authority shall have the power to implement the following powers in   respect of 
   bus halts situated within the province.
  (a) To construct, maintain, close , manage ,develop, change ,legally acquire of bus stands
    and bus halts.
  (b) To direct management affairs and time tables ,to make provisions in respect of their 
powers ,functions and responsibilities and to direct for keeping records and document 
which should be maintained by the authorized staff in bus stands and to direct infor-
mation to be noted in them.
        (c)   The authority shall have the power to taking decision and directing criteria in respect 
of having contacts with outsiders for administrative and transport service affairs in bus 
stands which are administrated and managed by the authority.
Time tables.
Destination 
name boards etc.
Registration of 
drivers, conduc-
tors and driver 
assistants.
Flying squad and 
freight transpor-
tation.
Freight trans-
portation & cab 
service vehicle 
parks. 
To identify 
freight /passen-
ger transporta-
tion routes and 
to direct vehicles 
to be run on 
them.
Agreements and 
contracts.
Donations.
To train drivers 
,conductors and 
driver assistants.
Administration 
and management 
of bus stands in 
the province.
Exercise of other  
powers.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
287
   (d )  To acquire, dispose, give or take on lease or rent out of any movable or immovable 
property for the purpose of authority subjected to approval of Secretary to the Ministry 
in charge of subject.
  (e)   To exercise other powers which is deemed to expedient for implementing powers , 
functions and duties properly under this statute.
 PART III
19                          Staff of the Provincial Transport Service Authority
       I  Direction of day today proceedings of the Provincial Transport Service Authority and
    administrative control in respect of authority’s employees shall be entrusted to the
    General Manager subjected to general administration and orders.
     II   Manipulation of day today activities of Provincial Transport Service Authority and 
administration of employees shall be entrusted with the general manager subjected to 
general provisions and administration.
    III   Some of the powers and functions vested in the authority by this statute, which may be
    considered necessary for ef ﬁ cient administration may be entrusted with the General 
Manager from time to time by Provincial Transport Service Authority. The General 
Manager shall implement aforesaid power subjected to the guidance and the control of 
Provincial Transport Service Authority.
    IV  General Manager shall not be dismissed from the service without prior approval of the 
Minister.
     V  General Manager shall not be dismissed from the service without prior approval of the 
Minister.
20        I   Provincial Transport Service Authority may,
 (a.)  Appoint a staff which may be deemed necessary to execute the functions of Provincial 
Transport Service Authority and control the discipline of the aforesaid staff.
 (b.) Direct salaries, wages or any other enumeration of the staff.
 (c.) Establish and regularize of E.P.F. or schemes and pay subscription to such a fund or a 
scheme for the sake of the staff.
 II  In case the authority decides that an of ﬁ cer of North Western Provincial Public Service 
Commission is deemed necessary to appoint to a temporary or a permanent post in the  
 authority, the appointment may be made with the concurrence of the relevant ofﬁ cer  
 and the approval of North Western Provincial Public Service Commission. 
 III  An of ﬁ cer employed in public sector could be permanently or temporarily  appointed to
    the provincial authority for a certain period with the concurrence of the of ﬁ cer, the
    secretary to the ministry for which he was attached ,the secretary to the ministry of Public 
Administration and the same consent of provincial authority.
 IV  When an of ﬁ cer, who is employed in provincial authority has entered into an agrement 
to serve for the government or a provincial council for a certain period, his service  
 shall be considered to be a service provided to the government or the said provincial 
council in order to meet the requirements of the agreement.
Acquisition/dis-
posal of property.
Exercise of other  
powers.
General Manager 
of Provincial 
Authority.
Staff appointment 
of Provincial 
Authority.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
288
21     PART  IV
       Finance
       I   A fund of their own should be in Provincial Transport Service Authority.
   II   Following money shall be paid to the Provincial Transport Service Authority’s fund.
 
   (a.) Fees recovered for issue and renewal of passenger or/and freight transportation and all 
money received to provincial authority in implementation of its powers, functions and 
duties.
   (b.) All money credited to authority including ﬁ nancial aids received by the North Western 
Provincial Council.
   III   Administration and keeping accounts of this money is a responsibility of general manager. 
The general manager may delegate powers to his staff for administration and keeping 
accounts.
 IV   Funds of the authority may be used by provincial authority to manage activities of pro-
vincial authority, to pay enumeration to members and the employees of the authority, to 
implement powers, functions and duties of provincial authority and for other purposes 
for which powers may be vested by Provincial Authority from time to time under this 
statute and any other written law.
22    Money which are requested  for implementation of functions of Provincial Transport 
Service Authority under this statute may lend from Provincial Council through a bank 
draft or by any other  way upon  the approval of the Minister in Charge of  subject or a 
general  permission given by him. 
23        I   Financial year of the Provincial Transport Service Authority should be the calendar year.
  II  The authority shall cause accounts books to be kept properly in respect of income and 
expenditure ,assets and liabilities and all the other transactions of the Provincial Authority.
  III  Accounts of Provincial Authority shall be get audited by a quali ﬁ ed auditor who was 
approved by the Minister in charge of subject.
  IV  The authority shall prepare an annual report in respect of activities done by the Provincial 
Authority.
  V  The Minister shall table the annual report and the audit report of the Provincial Authority, 
before exceeding 09 months upon the exceeding of ﬁ nancial year.
  VI  Article 154 of the Constitution shall be applied regarding  funds  and auditing accounts 
in terms of  Sec.23 of Provincial Council Act, .No.42 of 1987.     
 
PART  V
24.                                                     General Provisions 
 
 I    The minister shall make orders in respect of management of powers, functions and duties 
of the Provincial Authority, workers’ privileges, minimum salaries of all workers engage 
in passenger /freight transportation, all matters or one of those directed by this statute.
Funds of Pro-
vincial Author-
ity
Powers for 
borrowing 
money.
Accounts of 
Provincial 
Authority.
Power for Min-
ister to issue 
orders.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
289
 II  Every order made by the Minister shall be published in the gazette and they shall be 
taken effect on the date immediate after the date of such publication or a date prescribed 
in it.
 III  Every order made by the Minister shall be forth with forwarded to North Western Pro-
vincial Council for approval, despite the all unapproved orders shall be deemed ﬁ nite, 
any activities done there under shall be null and void.
 IV  The date which is deemed to be in ﬁ nite of a order made by the Minister shall be pub-
lished in the gazette.
25    North Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Service Authority No. 04 of  
   1995 is rescinded from the date on which this statute is executed. 
 PART VI
 Offences and Penalties
26        I  To travel in a passenger transport bus under a Provincial Transport Service Permit issued by  
  the authority or by any other institute.
                 (a)  Default of payment of bus fare
                 (b)  Deliberately denial of getting down at the destination of one’s journey
                 (c)  Usage of unbearable, uncivilized, or aggressive words or behave in such manner or 
gesture which are injurious and insulting to an individual ,by a passenger travelling in 
a bus running under a passenger transport service permit issued by the authority or any 
other institute, is an offence under this statute and the passenger commits that offence 
shall pay double of the bus fare and a service charge of Rs.1000/= to an authorized 
ofﬁ cer of the authority. 
           II    (a)  A passenger,
    who travels without any authority or a warrant which can be used for travelling in a
    bus running under a permit issued by the authority,
                  (b)  does not keep his ticket until the destination of his journey , 
                (c)  refuse or evade to show or forward the ticket at the request of the conductor of that 
   bus or any other authorized of ﬁ cer for that purpose ,commits an offence under this
   statute and he shall pay double of the bus fare and a service charge of Rs.1000/= to an  
    authorized of ﬁ cer of the authority,             
         
  III    (a) An individual who use a ticket forge fully  issued under or upon the permission of the 
authority or allow anyone else to do so,
                  (b) An individual who deform, destroy or change the nature of such a  ticket,
                   (c) An individual who sells ,provides or distributes such a ticket or produce to be sold 
without the permission of the authority,
                  (d) An individual who is alleged to have printed or has printed such a ticket without  per-
mission,
Cancellation of 
Road Passen-
ger Transport 
Statute.
Offences.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
290
  (e) (f) A driver or a conductor who use unbearable ,uncivilized, or aggressive words or be-
have in such manner or gesture which are injurious and insulting to an individual ,who                 
travels with a ticket which was deemed to have issued under or upon the permission of 
the authority,
                 (g)  A driver, conductor or a permit holder of a bus exceeds the sound level prescribed 
   by the authority of their internal sound systems,
                 (h)  A driver ,conductor or a driver assistant under a permit issued by the authority involves 
in Passenger /freight transportation who has not been duly registered in the authority or 
whose resignation has been cancelled,
                  
  (i) An individual who deliberately pollute a bus stand, a building, a passenger shelter con-
trolled by the authority by displaying notices ,writing texts, words or by drawing paintings, 
photographs or any other marks without permission of the authority has committed an 
offence and when he is found to be a guilty of that offence before a magistrate, he shall 
be punished with either description for a term not exceeding 06 months or with a ﬁ ne 
not less than Rs.1000/= and over Rs.2000/= or with both.
          IV  Any person who violates any orders made under this statute, except for the provisions/orders 
of above Sec. I, II, III  shall be a guilty for an offence and  when he is found to be a guilty 
of that offence before a magistrate, he shall be punished with either description for a term 
not exceeding 06 months or with a ﬁ ne not less than Rs.1500/= and over Rs.2500/= or with 
both.
           V  A person trying to commit an offence under this statute or an order made under that shall be 
a guilty for that offence and shall be subjected to a ﬁ ne of not exceeding Rs.2500/= or a 06 
months light imprisonment.
          VI  Any person committing an offence punishable under Sections 1,2,3, of this statute may be 
taken into custody by a police ofﬁ cer in a formal way and he shall be forth with forwarded 
before the magistrate for taking legal actions against him.
27  A person forwarding a forged or incorrect report, a written information or a written                              
explanation knowing them to be forge or incorrect, has committed an offence under this 
statute, and when he is found to be a guilty of that offence before a magistrate, he shall be 
punished with either description for a term not exceeding 01 year or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding 
Rs.5000/= or with both. 
28  A person who violates or do not execute any provision under this statute or an order, direction 
or requirement imposed or issued under that or defaults the payment of place charge has 
committed an offence under this statute and when he is found to be a guilty of that offence 
before a magistrate, he shall be punished with either description for a term not exceeding 01 
year or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding Rs.1500/= or with both.
29        I    When an offence is committed by a board of individuals under this statute or an order made 
under that, and if the board of individuals is a co-operation and a person functions as a                 
director, General Manager, Secretary or a parallel of ﬁ cer of a department were present at 
that time, and 
   II  If the board of individuals is a business ﬁ rm and a person functions as the owner or a               
partner proved that the offence was committed without his knowledge and he took all efforts 
he could have taken to prevent the offence considering the nature of his duty and all the 
relevant facts he shall not be considered as the guilty of that offence.
Arresting 
offenders
Forwarding in-
correct reports
Place Charges
Certain persons 
are subjected to 
offences done 
by a board of 
individuals

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
291
30        I   An ofﬁ cer or a worker who was delegated powers by the authority for constituting an 
action in respect of offences done under this statute shall be deemed to be a public ofﬁ cer 
in terms of the Sec.136 of Criminal Procedure Code No.15 of 1979.
           II   Taking the passengers in without permissions at the bus halts or assisting for collecting/
gathering crowd by shouting and obstructing the duty of the authority, is a punishable 
offence. In such a case ,police ofﬁ cers or ofﬁ cers of the authority or such persons may 
prosecuted at the Magistrate Court and if the relevant person  is found to be a guilty of 
an offence, he shall be punished with imprisonment of  either description for a term not 
exceeding 03 years or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding Rs.2000/=.
          III   Transport of School children without a permit issued under this authority, shall not be 
done and doing so is a punishable offence. An authorized ofﬁ cer of the authority may 
recover a place ﬁ ne of Rs.2000/= for the offence. If not, the person who committed the 
offence may be prosecuted by the police ofﬁ cers or the ofﬁ cers of authority in a Mag-
istrate Court and if he/she found to be a guilty of an offence , he /she shall be subjected 
to imprisonment of  either description for a term not exceeding 03 years or with a ﬁ ne 
not exceeding Rs.2000/=.
          IV   Factory workers or other employees shall not be transported without a permit issued by 
the authority and doing so is a punishable offence under this statute. The person who 
commits that offence shall pay double of the bus fare and a service charge of Rs.1000/= 
to an authorized ofﬁ cer of the authority. If not, an action may be instituted against them 
by the police ofﬁ cers, ofﬁ cers of the authority or such persons at the Magistrate Court and 
if they are found to be guilty of that offence they shall be, punished with imprisonment 
of  either description for a term not exceeding 03 years or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding 
Rs.2000/=.
           V   Passengers shall not be transported by three wheelers without a permit issued by the 
authority and doing so is a punishable offence under this statute. The person who com-
mits that offence shall pay double of the due fare and a service charge of Rs.1000/= to 
an authorized ofﬁ cer of the authority. If not, an action may be instituted against them by 
the police ofﬁ cers, ofﬁ cers of the authority or such persons at the Magistrate Court and 
if they are found to be guilty of that offence they punished with imprisonment of  either 
description for a term not exceeding 03 years or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding Rs.2000/= 
         VI   Goods shall not be transported without a permit issued by the authority and doing so 
is a punishable offence under this statute. The person who commits that offence shall 
pay double of the bus fare and a service charge of Rs.1000/= to an authorized of ﬁ cer 
of the authority. If not, an action may be instituted against them by the police ofﬁ cers, 
ofﬁ cers of the authority or such persons at the Magistrate Court and if they are found to 
be guilty of that offence they shall be punished with imprisonment of  either description 
for a term not exceeding 03 years or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding Rs.2000/=.
31   Any person who interfere illegally, inﬂ
 uence or strictly oppose obstruct or trying to do 
so in executing powers, functions, and duties vested in authority under this statute and 
in ofﬁ cer under the authority becomes a guilty for an offence and if he is found to be 
guilty of that offence he shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for 
a term not exceeding 02 years or with a ﬁ ne not exceeding Rs.2000/= or both.
Power for 
constitute an 
action
Bus halts
Transport of 
School chil-
dren without                  
permission
Supply of other 
general transport 
services without 
licenses
Transport of pas-
sengers by three 
wheelers without 
licences
Obstructing and 
inﬂ uencing the 
court

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
292
 PART VII
General Provisions
32        I  The minister may issue general or special provisions from time to time to the authority 
  in respect of exercising of its powers and the authority shall implement those provisions.
           II  The minister may from time to time order the authority to provide term reports, accounts 
   and other information as regard to the proceeding of the authority in a format issued  
   under his direction and the authority shall obey all such orders.
33        I  An ofﬁ cer authorized by the authority or by any other, may enter at any time and any 
place situated within North Western Province in to a motor vehicle involving in freight or 
passenger transport and search whether the aforesaid vehicle has been vested powers for 
such transportation under this statute or any other institution and whether the conductor 
driver or driver assistant has followed the conditions set out in the aforesaid permit or in 
the statute.
           II  The conductor, driver or driver assistant or the custodian may be ordered to forward the 
permit or any other document issued in respect of the vehicle used for passenger/freight 
transportation.
          III  The permit or the document can be taken to the custody of the aforesaid ofﬁ cer.
          IV  Driving license issued by the Department of Motor Trafﬁ c, annual vehicle revenue license 
and other documents which may considered to be necessary may be checked.
34        I   (a) No any civil or criminal action be constituted against the or any bona ﬁ dae  action done 
or alleged to have done under this statute
                 (b) or an ofﬁ cer /worker of the authority for any bonaﬁ dae action  done/not done or alleged 
to have done/not done under this statute or under the direction of the authority.
           II   A criminal case or a civil case was ﬁ led against the authority and if the expenses regard-
ing the case has to be made by the authority, it shall be paid from the authority’s fund. A 
compensation or any amount recovered in respect of such a case by the authority shall 
be credited to authority’s fund .If the ofﬁ cer relevant case, has been violated any laws /
regulations of the authority shall be personally responsible for that and the directorate 
shall have the power to decide whether payment is paid or not paid for the case from 
authority’s fund.
35        I   An ofﬁ cer authorized by the authority who was violated any provision in respect of a 
motor vehicle, by which freight or passenger transport is carried out under the authority 
of the permit issued by this statute and if he take the responsibility of such a violation, 
he shall be prescribed a service charge subjected to maximum service charges prevalent 
at present. The aforesaid ofﬁ cer shall inform the route and the number of to the authority.
           II   Such service charge shall be paid to the credit of authority’s fund and the receipt shall be 
forwarded within 2 weeks from the date of such reveal.
36  Every permit issued under this statute shall be displayed in front place of the relevant vehicle.
37  The authority may recommend lease schemes and facilities to purchase buses in consistent with 
public policies, merely for improvement of passenger transport Service.
Powers of 
Minister to 
issue orders
Enter into the 
vehicle and 
search it
Safety by pros-
ecution
Permit shall be 
displayed
Recommenda-
tion for pur-
chasing buses

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
293
38       I    (a)  Orders may be formulated by the Minister for implementation and enforcement of 
provisions of this statute.
          II     (a) The minister may formulate orders protecting generality of the powers vested by above 
38(1) for all mentioned below or each of them.
                 (b) All facts related to formulate orders under this statute.
                  (c) To issue, renew, amend, regularize the permits and other authorities , to above prescribe 
formats, payment to be made and procedure to be adopted for the above matters and 
incidental thereto.
                 (d) To prescribe vehicles to be used for the freight and passenger transport according to 
suitability and usage of roads and the standards observed in respect of using such vehi-
cles.
                 (e)  Documents to be carried out by the driver, conductor, the driver assistant or the custodian 
during the transport and the details to be included and included in them.
                  (f) Records to be kept in respect of terns of the buses used under the authority of regular 
passenger transport Service permit.
                 (g) Standards to be observed by an individual using a vehicle under the authority of permit.
                 (h) Records to be maintained by the regular passenger and transport Service permit hold-
ers as regards to the persons who were engaged as drivers , conductors and  the driver 
assistants by him under his permit ,their working hours and their free times.
                  (i) To keep those records securely, check them by person authorized by the authority and 
to forward said records at the request of such a person to be checked.
                  (j) To register drivers, conductors, the driver assistants who involves in freight and pas-
senger transport under the authority of permits, and to prepare procedures in respect of 
renewal, cancellation and suspension of Registration.
                 (k) To prescribe badges, uniforms to be worn by the drivers, conductors and the driver 
assistants who involves in regular passenger transport service under the authority of 
permits and disciplinary rules to be adopted by them during the transport.
                  (l) Specially in respect of integration of running buses, recording time and managing bus 
halts and bus stands in order to provide proper and fair facilities.
                (m) To prescribe, specify and amend the fees to be recovered for passenger transport services 
done by school vans, three wheelers and taxies.
                 (n) To prescribe minimum quali ﬁ cations of drivers, conductors and the driver assistants 
who involves in regular passenger and freight  transport Services and special passenger 
transport services to check their mental and physical ﬁ tness from time to time.
                 (o) To oppose regulations as regard to recovery of fees and to take actions to be adopted by 
inter provincial permit holders for buses, when transport within North Western Province.
          III   Every order made under this Sec. 38(1) shall be published in the
 Gazette Notice and it 
shall be taken effect on a date immediately after the date on which the order was pub-
lished or a date mentioned in the order.
          IV   Upon the publication of every order made under sub Sec.1 of this statute in the Gazette 
Notice, it shall be forth with forwarded to Provincial Council for the approval and if there 
any unapproved order it shall be considered to be rescinded from the date of approved 
without making harm to any act done under it.
           V   Date on which any order was considered to be rescinded, shall be published in the 
Gazette Notice.
Orders under the 
statute
Procedure

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
294
 PART VIII
Dismissal and interim provisions
39   All the members of the North Western Provincial Road Passenger Transport Service 
Authority No. 04 of 1995 who were appointed under the North Western Provincial Road 
Passenger Transport Service Statute No. 04 of 1995 and holding membership as at the 
date immediate prior to the effective date of this statute shall be deemed as the members 
of the Authority appointed under this Statute until the members of the Authority are 
appointed by the Minister under Section 5 (1) of this Statute.  
40         I   All the of ﬁ cers and other employees employed under North Western Provincial Road 
Passenger Transport Service Authority No. 04 of 1995 as at the date prior to the effec-
tive date of the Statue shall be deemed as the employees employed in the service of the 
Authority abiding by the terms and conditions of the service employment under the said 
passenger transport service Statute.  The service of those employees shall not be termi-
nated on any reasons other than the lawful matters pertinent to their service employment. 
           II   Under North Western Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority No.04 of 1995 
established authority owned all movable and immovable property including all funds 
shall be given to the authority immediately prior to the due  date on which the statute is 
taken effect , it shall be a property of the authority.
          III   All obligations, responsibilities ,contracts and agreements regarding E.P.F and E.T.F 
and remuneration implemented under Provincial Transport Service Authority of North 
Western Province established under Provincial Transport Service statute No.04 of 1995 
of North Western Province and which is in force on the immediate date prior to imple-
mentation of the statute shall be considered as  contracts and agreements of the authority.
          IV   An action constituted ,by or against the North Western Provincial Passenger Transport 
Service Authority No.04 of 1995 in a court or a tribunal ,on a date immediately prior 
to the due  date of the statute shall be considered to be a request or an appeal and they 
shall be maintained or terminated.
           V   In an action constituted or forwarded ;a request /appeal made by or against Passenger 
Transport Authority of North Western Province which was established under North 
Western Provincial Passenger Transport Service Statute No.04 of 1995 on a date im-
mediately prior to due date and which could not be partially or completely executed on 
the date immediately prior to due date but was reported by a court or a tribunal shall be 
considered to have reported to the beneﬁ t of the authority and the authority may execute 
against it subjected to another statute relevant to implement a decree ,grant or provisions 
of Civil Procedure Code.
          VI   A permit or any other document which have been issued under North Western Provincial 
Road Passenger Transport Service Statute No.04 of 1995 or considered to a permit under 
that is valid during certain time immediately prior to implement this statute but unless 
it is cancelled so far shall be considered to have issued within its validity period.
41   In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil and English text in this 
statute the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
Regulations 
under removed 
statutes
Employees of 
the Authority
Provisions 
for agree-
ments, rights, 
obligations, 
responsibilities, 
cases already 
instituted and 
on going cases.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
295
PART IX
Deﬁ nition
42  In this context unless otherwise requires,
  “The minister’ means the Minister in charge of the subject of Transport Service in the 
   North Western provincial Council cabinet 
  “the cabinet” means the cabinet of the North Western Provincial Council 
  “Province” means the  North Western province 
  “Council” means the North Western provincial Council 
  “Ofﬁ cer” means the all employees including the members of the directorial board employed at 
the North Western Provincial Transport Service Authority
  “Senior ofﬁ cer” means an ofﬁ cer holding an ofﬁ ce not lower than a rank of Assistant Secretary 
of Sri Lanka Administrative Service or an ofﬁ ce equal to the rank of parallel services.  
  “permit”  means , a permit issued by any name out of names “ passenger transport service per-
mit”, “freight transport service permit”, “special services permit”, “route permit”, “regular 
transport service permit”,” school service permit,” factory transport service permit issued 
granting authority for freight transport and passenger transport upon a gift, a bene ﬁ t, or 
upon separate fares under this statute or under any another written law.
  “Transport Services” means any motor vehicle transporting passengers or goods. 
  “Bus stand” means the bus passenger peripheries situated within the North Western province 
and Gazette  bus stands situated within the  North Western Province include the bus stands 
situated at the either sides of the Road.
  “ Gazette paper” means the 
Gazette paper of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
  “Local Government institutes” means a Municipal Council, an Urban Council or a Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
  “ bus or Omni bus” means a motor coach registered as  a Omni Bus under Motor Traf ﬁ c Act 
and it shall be considered it include dual purpose vehicle too.
  “ passenger” means a person carried in a hired vehicle or a bus ,  School service bus or a van,  
a factory bus,  does not include the driver and in case of  a bus the conductor/vehicle 
assistant. 
  “Separate fare” means a payment made by a person entitling him to be carried as a 
   passenger on a bus. 
  “Motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle interpreted in the Motor Trafﬁ c Act. 
  “Motor Car” means a motor vehicle interpreted in the Motor Trafﬁ c Act. 
  “Lorry” means a motor vehicle interpreted in the Motor Trafﬁ c Act. 
  “Trailer” means a Trailer interpreted in the Motor Trafﬁ c Act. `
  “Hire transport” means, keeping parked, stopped for hiring in a highway or any other place 
  “Passenger transport service “means every vehicle transporting passengers, school children, 
ofﬁ cer workers, factory workers along highways by levying a fee. 
  Formal recruitment procedure means the recruitment procedure approved by the Hon. Governor 
of the North Western Province. 
  “Motor Vehicle” in Section 26 means a motor vehicle employed in passenger transport service. 
  “Motor Vehicle” in Section 27 means a motor vehicle such as lorries, Trailers, employed in 
goods transport service.
03-341

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
296
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF SPORTS OFFICER OF THE 
WESTERN PROVINCIAL MINISTRY OF SPORTS - 2018
APPLICATIONS are invited from all Sri Lankan Females/Males who are permanent residents in the Western Province 
possessing the quali ﬁ cations appearing in the Noti ﬁ cation for the recruitment to the post of Sports of ﬁ cer of the Western 
Provincial Ministry of Sports. 
02. Salary Scale :
(a)  Sports Of ﬁ cer Grade III
 Rs. 29,840 - 300x10-350x11-560x10-660x10- Rs. 48,890 - According to MT 1-2016
03. Educational, Professional and other qualiﬁ cations :
3.1 (a) Educational qualiﬁ cations :
 i. Should have passed the General Certi ﬁ cate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in 6 subjects in one 
sitting with credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics and Ordinary passes in two other 
subjects.
 ii. Should have followed and passed a Diploma Course of not less than one year conducted by the National College 
of Sports.
(b)  Professional Qualiﬁ cations.  :
 i.  Should have participated in a recognized international tournament as a member of the National Team relating 
to a particular Sports Event, or
 ii.  Should have achieved places 1,2,3 at the National Level of a particular Sports Event at a National Sports 
Tournament conducted by the Ministry of Sports, or achieved places 1,2 at the provincial level or achieved 
places 1,2,3 at a major open tournament held by National Sports Association. 
(c)  Physical Fitness :
  Every candidate should be physically and mentally ﬁ t to serve in any part of the Western Province and of the 
performance of the duties attached to the Post. A pass in the practical test conducted by the Sports medical unit of the 
Department of Sports Development or the Provincial College of Sports for physical ﬁ tness is required. The physical 
ﬁ tness test will comprise Reaction Speed, Flexibility, Abdnomial Strength, Arm Power, Agility, Standing Long Jump, 
Speed and Endurance.
(d)  Other Qualiﬁ cations:
 i.  Candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii.  Should posess an excellent character.
 iii. Should not be a person holding a post of clergy of any religion or religious sect.
 iv. Should have been a permanent resident of the Western Province during the period of three (3) years immediately 
preceding the last date of accepting applications. (Name should have been included in the list of voters.)
 v. In the case of a person already in the Public/Provincial Public Service, he or she should not have been subject to 
any punishment other than a warning during the period of 05 years immediately preceding the last date of accepting 
applications and should have earned all salary increments during such period of 05 years.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
297
 vi. All quali ﬁ cations required for recruitment referred to above should have been completed in every respect, on the 
date appearing in the notiﬁ cation calling applications/Gazette Notiﬁ cation.
    3.2  Should not be less than 18 years or more than 45 years of age on the date of 01.01.2018.
04. Conditions of Service :
 4.1  This post is permanent and pensionable. should contribute to the Widows’ / Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension 
Fund Scheme.
 4.2  The person appointed to this post will be subject to a probationary period of 03 years as applicable.
 4.3  The provisions in Sections 10 to 12 of Chapter I of part I of Establishment Code will be relevant to the post as 
applicable.
 4.4  Every of ﬁ cer should comply with the provisions in Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka and the other laws and regulations in force and enacted from time to time for the 
implementation of Government languages Policy.
 4.5  In addition to the regulations in the Scheme of Recruitment / Promotions relating to this recruitment, all of ﬁ cers 
are bound to perform in compliance with the regulation in the Establishment Code and the Financial Regulations 
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the Provincial Disciplinary Manual, the Provincial Financial 
Rules, the Departmental Orders and the other Regulations issued and will be issued from time to time by the 
Government and the Western Provincial Council.
 4.6  The of ﬁ cers recruited will be subject to change of station transfers and should be able to serve in any speci ﬁ ed 
part of the area of authority of the Western provincial Council.
05. Scheme of Recruitment :- The recruitment to the service will be held by the written examination, the viva voice test and 
the practical test. The candidates who obtain over 40 percent of marks from the results of the written examination will be 
qualiﬁ ed, in accordance with the marks obtained, for the structured viva voice test.
   Out of those included in the merit list prepared according to the combined marks including the marks obtained after 
subjecting to the structured viva voice test, recruitment will be made from among those who pass the physical ﬁ tness test 
conducted by the College of Sports or the Department of Sports Development.
Written Examination
 Subjects Maximum Marks  Pass Marks
Intelligence Test (Time 01 Hour)  100  40%
Language Competency (Time 01 Hour)  100  40%
Syllabus of Written Examination :
Name of Question Paper Syllabus
1. Intelligence Test A question paper measuring the candidate capacity in the general intelligence, 
reasoning capacity, expressing ideas, numerical skills and compression capacity.
2. Language Competency A question paper measuring the capacity relating to spelling, 
grammar usage, expressing simple and clear ideas, knowledge of 
language usages. precis and essay writing competency.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
298
Structured Viva Voce Test :
Heads for Awarding 
Marks 
Method of A warding Marks Maximum 
Marks
1. Additional 
Educational 
Qualiﬁ cations 
Diploma In Sports (1 year or more) 05
10General Degree 07
Sports Degree 10
2. Sports Skills Marks are awarded only for winnings in the Sports 
Tournaments referred to in Section 7.2.2.2 of the 
scheme of Recruitment 
70*
3. Training, 
Judging or 
Organization 
of Sports 
Tournaments
Marks will be awarded only for training/ Judging 
or organization done for the District, Provincial 
National and International level Tournaments 
referred to in Section 7.2.2.2 of the Scheme of 
Recruitment (The Certiﬁ cates/Citation awarded by 
national or International Sports Association should 
be produced.
District/Provincial Tournaments 05
National Tournaments 07
International Tournaments 10
15
4. Personality 05
Rescrutiny of the certiﬁ cates for the conﬁ rmation of qualiﬁ cations and conﬁ rmation of the accuracy will be 
done at the structured viva voce test.
 The method of awarding marks for sports skills is given below the detail. (Marks will be awarded only for the 
highest skill.)
Sports Tournament Level 1 2 3
Provincial Tournaments 20 15
National Tournaments 45 42.5 40
South Asian Tournaments 55 52.5 50
1st, 2nd, or 3rd place wins in Asian Championship Tournaments, 
Commonwealth Championship Tournaments
65
1st, 2nd, or 3rd place wins in Asian Championship Tournaments, 
Commonwealth Championship Tournaments, World cup or Olympic 
Tournament
70

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
299
06. Examination Fees:  The receipt obtained for the payment of Rs. 500 as the examination fee to the Western Provincial 
Ministry of Education and Sports should be pasted in the speciﬁ ed place of the application.
07.  Method of Application :
 7.1  The application should be prepared according to Specimen Form annexed at the end of this Noti ﬁ cation by using 
both sides of A4 size paper (cm 21x29)
  The perfected applications should be sent by the registered post to reach "The Secretary, Western Provincial 
Ministry of Education and Sports, No. 89 - 4th ﬂ oor, Ranmagapaya, Battaramulla", "Recruitment to the Post of 
Sports Ofﬁ cer 2018" should be written on the left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
 7.2  Applications are already in the permanent Public/Provincial Public Service should send their application through 
their respective Heads of Institutions.
 7.3  All Applications which do not conﬁ rm the specimen form, examination fees not paid on speciﬁ ed date, information 
not properly included, incomplete applications and the delayed applications will be rejected without notice 
whatsoever. In addition, it is responsibility of the applicant to examine whether the perfected application conﬁ rms 
to the specimen form in the Noti ﬁ cation. Any loss caused due to the failure to perfect the application properly 
should be borne by the applicant. Retaining photocopy of the application will be useful. Receipts of application 
will not be acknowledged.
8. The last date of accepting applications is 29.03.2018
9. The application of persons who have not ful ﬁ lled qualiﬁ cations speciﬁ ed in the Noti ﬁ cation will be rejected. The 
originals of the documents in support of qualiﬁ cations should be produced at the Viva V oice Test. It is compulsory that every 
applicant has fulﬁ lled all qualiﬁ cations relating to this post, in every respect, on or before the last date for accepting applications.
10. Issuing admission forms should not be considered as completing basic qualiﬁ cation for the post.
11.It is revealed at any time before making the appointment that any applicant does not posses the quali ﬁ cations his 
candidature will be cancelled. After the appointment in the event of knowingly producing erroneous information or the correct 
information has been willfully he/she will be dismissed from service.
12. The ﬁ nal decision on conducting or not conducting the examination, selection / non-selection after conducting, or 
on the vacancies shall rest with the Western Provincial Ministry of Education and Sports, Similarly the ﬁ nal decision on any 
matter not provided for in this Notiﬁ cation as well shall rest with the Western Provincial Ministry of Education and Sports.
Secretary,
Western Provincial Ministry of Education and Sports 
No. 89, 4th Floor,
Ranmagapaya,
Battaramulla.
(Holds no responsibility whatsoever in connection with any matters and application forms appearing in any erroneously 
prepared notices  based on this Notiﬁ cation, presented by different institutions.)

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
300
Recruitment to the Post of Sports Ofﬁ cer of the Western Provincial Ministry of Education and Sports - 2018
 
 Examination Number
   (For of ﬁ ce use only)
Medium of language in which you are appearing for the Examination
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
01. 1.1 Name with initials at the end :—————————————.
  (In English Block Capital) E.g. SILV A A.B.
 1.2 Full Name (In English Block Capital) :—————————————.
 1.3 Full Name (In Sinhala / Tamil) :—————————————.
 1.4 Permanent Address (In English Block Capital) :—————————————.
  (Admission card will be posted to this address)
 1.5 Permanent Address (In Sinhala / Tamil) :—————————————.
 1.6 Telephone Number :  Home :———————  Mobile:———————
 1.7 If you are at present in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service, 
  Designation: —————————————.
  Date of Appointment :—————————————.
02. 2.1 Sex (Female -1, Male - 0)
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 2.2 Marital Status —————————————.
  (Married - 1, Unmarried - 2)
 2.3 National Identity Card Number :
03. Date of Birth :  Year:      Month:   Date:
 Age as at 01.01.2018
  Years :   Months:    Days:
04. Educational and other Quali ﬁ cations:
 4.1 General Certi ﬁ cate of Education (Ordinary Level) :
  Year :———————  Examination Number :———————
  First Sitting
  
Subject Pass Obtained
   

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
301
 Second Sitting (Information on the Examination completing quali ﬁ cation)
Subject Pass Obtained
 General Certi ﬁ cate of Education (Advanced level) :
 
 Year :———————  Examination Number :———————
  
Subject Pass Obtained
 4.2  Professional Quali ﬁ cations :
  ............................................................................................................................. ......................
  ............................................................................................................................. .....................
  ............................................................................................................................. .....................
 (No other certi ﬁ cate whatsoever should be forwarded with the application.)
05. Number  of receipt for payment of Examination Fee :—————————————.
 Date  :———————.
  Af ﬁ x the receipt ﬁ rmly here
06. Attestation of the Applicant :
 I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge and that the cash receipt No. ........................ for the payment of the Examination Fee is afﬁ xed hereto. Further, I 
agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the examination and if I am found to be ineligible according to the conditions 
of the examination, I abide by the decision to cancel my candidature prior to the examination, while holding the examination 
or subsequently. Further I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the holding of this examination stipulated by the 
Western Provincial Ministry of Education and Sports,
  ——————————.
  Signature of Applicant.
Date :————————.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'09
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 09.03.2018
302
Certiﬁ cation of the Applicant's Signature:
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ............................................. (full name) is submitting this application is p ersonally 
known to me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................. and that the receipt for the payment of 
examination fee is afﬁ xed hereto.
Name of person Attesting :—————————————.
Signature :—————————————.
Designation and Ofﬁ cial Seal :—————————————.
Date :—————————————.
(This attestation should be done by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of the Peace/ A Commissioner of Oaths/ an 
Attorney at law/ Ofﬁ cer of Forces who have authority power/ Ofﬁ cer of Place Service holding a post gazetted or an Ofﬁ cer 
holding a permanent post in the Public/ Provincial Public Service in receipt of annual basic salary exceeding Rs. 571,380)
Recommendation of the Head of Department for the ofﬁ cers who are already in the service of the Public/Provincial Public 
Service (Delete words inapplicable) 
I declare that the applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss ........................ is an ofﬁ cer serving in this ................. Ministry/ Department/ Institute 
and his/ her service is satisfactory, that he/she has been not been dismissed from the Public Service, has been/ has not been 
treated as vacated post and in the event of he/she being selected for an appointment to a post on the results of this examination 
he/she can be/ cannot be released from the post he/she holds present.
  —————————————,
  Signature of Head of Department
  (Of ﬁ cial Seal)
Date :————————.
03 - 388 
                                                                                            
                                                                                              
CALLING APPLICATIONS TO RECRUIT TO THE POSTS OF SRI LANKA LIBRARIANS’ SERVICE (CLASS III) 
IN THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE - 2017
I do hereby notify that the closing date to apply for the posts of Sri Lanka Librarians’ Service (Class III), existing in the 
Local Government Institutions of Central Provincial Public Service, for which applications were called and published in 
section IV (a) in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,bearing the number 2047 and dated as 24th 
November, 2017, is extended till 23rd March, 2018.
H. M. M. U. B. Herath,
Commissioner of Local Government,
Central Province.
03-431
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.