

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 105]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Victor Antony , M. P. for Puttalam District
on 04th May, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on April 11, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
  D. M. DASSANAYAKE SOCIAL SERVICES AND
CHARITY FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 005621—75  (03/2011)
Preamble.
Short Title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE D. M. DASSANAYAKE SOCIAL
SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “D. M.
Dassanayake Social Services and Charity Foundation” has
heretofore been established for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the “D. M. Dassanayake
Social Services and Charity Foundation” (Incorporation)
Act, No.     of 2011.
2. From and after the date of the commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and Charity
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as “Foundation”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred
to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under
the name and style of the D. M. Dassanayake Social Services
and Charity Foundation and by that name may sue and be
sued in all courts with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be as follows—
(a) to nurture the people through development required
for eliminating poverty of the Sri Lankan people;
Incorporation
of the D. M.
Dassanayake
Social
Services and
Charity
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to guide people towards a tranquil life by
minimizing restlessness in them by promoting
consolatory teaching for mental and emotional
strains encountered by the human kind;
(c) to redeem the Sri Lankan people from petty
differences by promoting cooperation  and
co-existence through the realization of clear
knowledge of life gained  through Buddhism for
persons of any age whether they be juvenile, young
or elderly;
(d) to convert the family and society to a self-reliant
unit, identifying the social personality which is
helpful for a virtuous society devoid of racial and
religious differences;
(e) to make maximum contribution for the
development of personality of poverty-stricken
children by offering financial and physical
provisions for their physical and mental
development;
(f) to provide theoretical and practical knowledge to
necessary personnel for the effective maintaining
of agricultural and economic strategies;
(g) to promote physical and human resources required
for steering the children receiving school education
for the guidance and additional support of Sri
Lankan academics with the aim of developing their
literacy and helping them to face public
examinations;
(h) to assist to develop a good economic condition in
the family by providing the required vocational
training, physical and financial resources for young
people interested in self employment;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(i) to establish relations with local and foreign
institutions which have similar aims and objectives
of those of the above Foundation and exchange
resources when necessary and working in
collaboration with those institutions;
(j) to print and publish books, journals, hand-outs,
newspapers, magazines and distribute the same as
per necessities;
(k) to extend full sponsorship and maintain
conferences, seminars, workshops and group study
activities in Sri Lanka and outside for mental,
physical, social, moral and intellectual
development activities required for leading a full
life;
(l) to volunteer promptly to provide whatever service
required by patients in hospitals and other
infirmaries by visiting them and offering them
physical, mental relief;
(m) to intervene immediately for the physical and
mental wellbeing of the Sri Lankan people suffer
from various disasters including natural disasters
and make active contribution promptly in whatever
recovery efforts;
(n) to promote individuality by developing attitudes
and skills required for stronger, resolute and focused
public life by identifying potential powers of
man and paying attention to utilizing such
potentials for the social and personal advancement;
(o) to organize welfare activities for the betterment of
families of departed soldiers and make available
the facilities required for them;
(p) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary
for the accomplishment of all or any of the objects
of the Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) The affairs of the Foundation shall, subject to the
rule of the Corporation for the time being in force, be
administered by a Governing Council consisting of the
Chairman of the Foundation, Mrs. Indrani Dassanayake who
is a Provincial Councilor of the Northwestern Provincial
Council, Secretary, Treasurer, two assistant secretaries an
six committee members.
(2) The first Governing Council of the Corporation shall
consist of the members holding office in the Foundation on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) The incumbent Chairman of the foundation Mrs.
Indrani Dassanayake shall be the lifelong Chairman of the
Corporation unless she resigns from her post prematurely.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have power—
(a) to buy, acquire, rent, construct or obtain otherwise
any land or building required for the purpose of the
Corporation;
(b) to obtain loans or take money from state or
approved banks and institutions for the purpose of
the Corporation or to receive grants and donations
(local or foreign) with the approval of the
Governing Council;
(c) to make, write, accept, offer discounts, transact,
purchase, sell, issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, maintain and close bank accounts;
(d) to invest any fund deemed as not required for the
purpose of the Corporation in a manner deemed
suitable by the Governing Council;
(e) to appeal for and receive contributions,
endowments, grants and donations all types of gifts;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with an
individual, any company or a body of personnel;
(g) to receive, accept, execute, perform and administer
legitimate trusts and conditions relevant to any
immovable property or private property;
(h) to appoint, employ, transfer and dismiss and
terminate services of officers and servants of the
Corporation required for realizing the objects of
the Corporation and to pay salaries and allowances
and gratuity as determined by the corporation;
(i) to train Sri Lankan or foreign employees for the
purpose of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary,
incidental or beneficial to fulfill and accomplish
the objects of the Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation to make
rules with regard to the matters listed below for or any of
them, from time to time, at any general meeting of the
Corporation and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of
the members present and voting to make such rules, as are
not inconsistence with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law—
(a) categorization of members, their admission and
expulsion or their resignation;
(b) election of the Governing Council, resignation or
expulsion of office bearers and the powers,
functions and conduct of the Trust;
(c) appointment of various office bearers, agents and
employees of the Corporation and their powers,
roles, function and conduct;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) the procedure to be adopted in convening and
holding the meetings of the Governing Council,
Corporation and the Management Committee, the
time, venue, notices, agenda, quorum and the
general conduct of such meetings;
(e) qualifications and disqualifications for the
membership of the Governing Council and the
Corporation; and
(f) administration and management of property of the
Corporation and realization of its objectives.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, be deemed to
be  rules of the Corporation made under this section and any
such rule when made under subsection (1) above, may at a
like meeting and in like manner be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and its
financial year shall be from 1st of January to 31st of
December of every year.
(2) All gifts, devised transfers, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants accepted for and on behalf of
the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the
Corporation a bank approved by the   Governing Council.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all
debts due, to and all subscription and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified Auditor.
 In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(i) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such  institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by any one of
such institute.
10.  If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Association or
Associations having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation, and which is or are, by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Secretary, Chairman and Treasurer of the Corporation who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such  signing shall be independent of the
signing  of any person as a witness.
Accounts and
audit.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 9 -->

D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
8
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
12. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body politic or  corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.5

<!-- page 10 -->

9D. M. Dassanayake Social Services and
Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .