

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2091$75 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'10'05
No. 2091/75 -  FRIDAY  OCTOBER  05,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
CENTRAL   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG  4218 — 107  (10/2018)
Statute of “Digana Sports Complex and the Sports Development Foundation of
the Central Provincial Council
I am publishing herein below the aforementioned statute which was reputed by the Central Provincial Council on
18th September 2018 and approved by the Hon. Governor to the Central Province on the 05 th of October 2018 is effective
from the same date for your information.
THILINA B ANDARA T ENNAKOON ,
Minister of Sports, Youth Affairs, Women,
Rural Development and Industries, Central Province.
P.O. Box. 41,
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
DIGANA    SPORTS   COMPLEX   AND   SPORTS   DEVELOPMENT   FOUNDATION
A statute of Sports and the Central Provincial Council for administration, maintenance and development of Digana Sports
Complex, and to establish Sports Development Foundation, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Statute may be cited as the Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development
Foundation of Central Province Statute No. 02 of 2018 of the Central Provincial Council
and shall come into force after the receipt of approval of the Governor, on such date
as the Minister may appoint.
Short title
and date of
enforcement

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
2A
 PART I
Establishment of Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundation
2. There shall be established Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundation
of Central Province (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”).
3. Objectives of the Foundation are as follows:
(1) Proper administration and maintenance of the sports complex,
(2) To support to build a healthy and active community,
(3) to promote and develop sports.
(4) to provide facilities for the development of sports,
(5) to provide opportunity for visitors/spectators to spend the time happily and joyfully,
(6) to train local and foreign sports personnel and bring then to international level.
(7) to provide facilities for officers of all levels connected to sports to improve their
knowledge, capabilities/abilities, and attitudes,
(8) to protect and maintain the sports complex for future generations,
(9) to create a sport complex with relevant facilities for the rural sport personnel to
achieve an experience of international level,
(10) Increasing income of people living around the sports complex and improving
employment opportunities for them,
(11) Providing opportunities for sports personnel in remote areas to improve their sports
skills by providing them with residential facilities.
4. The Foundation shall be a body incorporated and legal entity that can sue or be sued
at a court of law with perpetual succession and a common seal.
5. (1) The Foundation shall be administered and managed by a Board of Control (hereinafter
referred to as “Board”).
(2) The Board shall comprise following ex-officio members:
i Chief Secretary, Central Province,
ii Secretary to the Ministry,
iii Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance), Central Province,
iv Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering Services), Central Province,
v Divisional Secretary, Kundasale,
vi Director of Sports, Central Province,
vii  Director of Sports Education, Central Province.
viii  Two senior sports men or women who have gained international achievements and,
with special knowledge about sport
(3) All members of the Board shall be appointed by the Governor on the recommendation
of the Provincial Minister in-charge of the Sports portfolio. Chief Secretary of
Central Province shall be appointed as the Chairman of the Board and Secretary to
the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the Sports portfolio as the Secretary of the
Board.
Establishment
of Digana
Sports Complex
and Sports
Development
Foundation
Legal Entity
Composition of
Board of
Control

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
Meetings  of the
Board and
Quorum
6. (1) The Board shall meet once a month for the first six months after this statute
comes into power and thereafter once every three months or as the Board decides
as per  requirement.
(2) Quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be three members.
7. The common seal of the Board shall be kept in the possession of the Secretary of
the Board and every document to be signed on behalf of the Board shall be signed
by the Chairman and the Secretary of the board and affixed with the common
seal.
8. The power and duties of the Foundation are as follows:
(1) to make decisions related to administration and maintenance of the sports
complex and to protect and develop the sports complex as a property of the
Provincial Council,
(2) to make decisions regarding the modular changes and improvements to the sports
complex,
(3) to identify and promote new sources of income,
(4) to monitor and direct the administrative works of the staff of sports complex,
(5) to establish the required subcommittees such as revenue subcommittee, planning
subcommittee, maintenance subcommittee, sports subcommittee and medical
subcommittee to facilitate the administrative and maintenance works of sports
complex, and to formulate relevant rules and regulations and to provide guidance,
(6) to acquire, sell, pawn, lease and exchange movable and immovable assets or use
other instruments of disposition,
(7) to accept immovable or movable properties received as gifts and donations from
governmental and non-governmental organizations, groups or individuals as per
the provisions of Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
of 1978 and Provincial Councils Act, No.42 of 1987,
(8) to enter into agreements required for the  implementation of the objectives of
this statute,
(9) to identify the designations and staff required for the administration of the
Foundation, and to make decisions regarding recruitment, appointment, promotion,
discipline and dismissal of staff,
(10) to make decisions regarding the allowances or emoluments to be paid to the
Board or subcommittees when Foundation makes profits,
(11) to determine the salaries and emoluments of the staff,
(12) to plan sports training courses, to implement training programs and to take
measures to train the beneficiaries for various courses,
(13) to take steps for the development of sports such as establishment of Sport Science
Academy,
(14) to consider requests to obtain ground facilities for schools and sports clubs in
the province.
9. The board shall implement the powers and duties of the Foundation.
10. The Minister shall table in the Provincial Council, an administrative report
including the administrative, developmental and financial progress of the
Foundation before March 31 of every year.
Common Seal
Power and
Duties of the
Foundation
Administrative
Report

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
4A
PART II
Staff
11. (1) The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the Foundation. He shall
be one of the Assistant Directors employed in the Department of Sports. The
chairman shall appoint the aforementioned, subject to the concurrence of the control
board. The control board can recruit someone permanently for this position at any
suitable time.
(2) A Staff may be appointed to assist the Manager. Trainers and Sports Officers shall
be appointed from the staff of the Department of Sports and remainder of staff may
be appointed as decided by the Board, subject to the minute of recruitment and
promotion.
(3) The control board shall prepare a recruitment minute providing for the recruitment
of cadre under the aforementioned basis and for the recruitment of personnel and
have the same minute approved.
PART III
Advisory Committee
12. (1) There shall be appointed an Advisory Committee by the Governor to provide
consultancy for the duties of the Board.
(2) Composition of the Advisory Committee shall be as follows:
I Minister;
II Four members of the Provincial Council;
(3) Unless dismissed by the Governor after giving reasons, the term of office of the
Advisory Committee is three (03) years. This time limitation shall not be applicable
in the case of the Minister in-charge of the portfolio.
(4) The Governor shall appoint another member of the Provincial Council for a vacancy
emerged as a result of resignation or dismissal from the membership of the Advisory
Committee or by death.
13. Duties and powers of the Advisory Committee
(1) to provide consultancy when requested by the Board.
(2) to provide guidelines for local and foreign financial facilities required for the
development of sports complex.
(3) to provide guidance to obtain local and foreign expertise for the development of
sports skills.
(4) to inspect the progress and evaluate the operation of sports subcommittees.
(5) to advice in a conflict of opinion among members of the Board.
14. Advisory Committee may meet whenever required or when requested by the Board.
15. Secretary to the Ministry shall coordinate the meetings and other affairs of the
Advisory Committee.
Staff
Composition of
Advisory
Committee
Duties and
Powers of the
Advisory
Committee
Meeting of
Advisory
Committee
Coordination of
affairs of
Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
PART IV
Account of the Fund
16. (1) The foundation shall have a financial account under the name of “Digana Sports
Complex and Sports Development Foundation of Central Province”.
(2) Sources of funds for the account are as follows :
I Funds from the Central Government.
II  Funds from Provincial Council Fund.
III Income generated by the Foundation.
I V Aids and donations received from governmental and non-governmental organizations
in accordance with the existing law.
V Aids and donations received from individuals or groups.
17. The monies from the Account may be used for following purposes:
(1). for Administrative and maintenance works of the sports complex;
(2). to pay employees’ salaries and emoluments;
(3). to buy fixed and current assets;
(4). for expanding the sports complex;
(5). for staff to participate in courses and local and foreign trainings related to their
respective subjects;
(6). for other expenses to be borne in performing the duties of the Foundation.
18. The bank account should be maintained at a recognized state bank
19. Money can be withdrawn by the secretary of the control board from the account on
the recommendation of a three-member committee appointed by the Board or the
account shall be operated with the signatures of an authorized officer and the manager.
20. The fiscal year is from 1
st of January to 31 st December every year.
21. All income and expenditure shall be entered into accounts and the accounting reports
shall be presented to the Board monthly.
22. The accounts shall be audited annually by the auditor-general and by the internal
audit of the Ministry.
PART V
General Provisions
23. Any party who is dissatisfied with a decision made by the control board or the
consultancy board shall have the opportunity to appeal to the Hon. Governor of the
Central Province.
24. (1) Without violating the sanctity of the regulations under the statute, Minister has the
authority to impose regulations on following matters:
Spending
Money from
Account
Withdrawal
from Account
Accounting
Reports
Auditing of
Accounts
Appeals

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
6A
(1) Establishment of sports subcommittees and provisions related to their powers, duties
and constitutions;
(2) Provisions related to booking the sports complex by external persons or institutions;
(3) Provisions related to introducing sports courses;
(4) Provisions related to users of the sports complex;
(5) Provisions related to determining the booking fees for the sports complex.
24. (2) Minister shall have the power to impose regulations in respect of other matters as
required for the implementation of powers and duties of this statute.
25. Every regulation made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council
for approval within a month after its publication in the  Gazette.  Any regulation
failing to obtain approval thus shall be considered as repealed as from the date of
its disapproval, but without prejudice to any such executed there under, and that
shall be published in the Gazette.
26. All members and officers considered under this statute shall be deemed as public
servants for the purposes mentioned therein as per the definition in the code of
criminal procedure. This foundation shall be considered as an institution scheduled
in the bribery act and definitions shall be done according to the provisions of that
act.
27. Any person who commits a breach of any provision of this Statute or provisions of
any regulation made under it shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and
when such person is convicted after a trial before the Magistrate, to direct him to
pay a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
28. This statute made in respect of the stadium, agreed upon by the Chief Secretary of
the Central Province and the Secretary of the Line Ministry of sports will be lapsed
with the approval of it by the Hon. Governor of the Central Province and on a date
which shall be decided by the Minister for bringing it into effect.
PART  VI
Interpretation
29.  In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires;
“Digana Sports Complex” means the Digana Sports Complex situated at Digana,
inclusive of the Indoor stadium, Swimming pool, Open playground, stadium, Body
building unit; cafeteria and the Land, and any development and constructions that
may be erected in the premises;
“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council;
“Governor” means the Governor of Central Province;
“Minister” means the Minister who is in-charge of the subject of sports of the
Central Province;
Offences and
Punishments
Interpretation

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
In an
inconsistency
Sinhala text
shall prevail
“Chief Secretary” shall mean the Chief Secretary of the Central Province.
“Secretary” means Secretary to the Ministry to which subject of sports of the Central
Province is delegated to;
“Provincial Director” means the Director of Department of Sports of the Central
Province;
“Digana Stadium” is a division affiliated to Department of Sports and Ministry to
which subject of sports of the Central Provincial Council are delegated to;
30. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts of this
Statute the Sinhala text shall prevail.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.