

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
ශී  ලංකා  පජාතාන්තික  සමාජවාදී   ජනරජෙය්  ගැසට්  පතය 
අති විෙශෂ   
අංක 2254/2 - 2021 ෙනොවැම්බර් මස 15 වැනි සඳුදා - 2021.11.15 
 
  No. 2254/2 –  MONDAY, NOVEMBER  15, 2021 
EXTRAORDINARY 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A - PG 5617 — 535 (11/2021)  
                                                                                                   
                                          
                                                     
STRATEGIC   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECTS   ACT,   No.   14   of   2008 
 
Order under Section 3 (4) 
 
BY VIRTUE of the powers vested in me by Sub-section (4) of Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act,    
No 14 of 2008 as amended, I Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation, do by this 
Order declare that:- 
 
1. The notification containing the relevant information of the Development and Operation of West Container  
Terminal- 1 project under the Colombo Port Expansion, on Build, Operate and Transfer (hereinafter referred to as 
"BOT") basis for a period of thirty five (35) years as a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) with an envisaged investment of 
USD 650 million which was identified as a Strategic Development Project for the purpose of Sub-section (2) of Section 3 
of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 (hereinafter referred to as "SDP Act") was published in              
Extraordinary Gazette Notification No. 2238/39 dated July 30, 2021. 
 
2
. T he approval of the Cabinet of Ministers has been granted on October 05, 2021 in terms of Sub-Section (3) of 
Section 3 of the SDP Act to declare that the Development and Operation of West Container Terminal- 1 project under the 
Colombo Port Expansion, on a BOT basis for a period of thirty-five (35) years as a PPP with an envisaged investment of 
USD 650 million, as a strategic development project. 
 
3. The above Strategic Development Project shall be kn own as ''Development and Oper ation of West Container 
Terminal- 1 project under the Colombo Port Expansion, on BOT basis for a period of thirty five (35) years as a 
PPP" (hereinafter referred to  as "the project") and that th e project company to undertake this project is Colombo West 
International Terminal (Private) Limited (hereinafter referred to as "Project Company"). 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  — GENERAL 
 
Government  Notifications 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.11.15 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2021 
 4. The aforesaid project shall impl ement and commence commercial operations in th ree (03) phases as   
 follows: 
 
Phase I 
Construction of 600m of the quay wall and terminal area including requisite infrastructure as specified in the BOT 
Agreement, which is to be completed and commenced operation within a period of thirty-six (36) months from the 
date of the BOT Agreement to be signed between the Project Company and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. 
 
Phase II 
Completion of the full length of the quay wall of 1,400m including requisite infrastructure as specified in the BOT 
Agreement, which is to be completed and commenced operation within forty-eight (48) months from the date of 
the BOT Agreement. 
 
Phase III 
Completion of the terminal as specified in the BOT Agreement, which is to be completed and commenced        
operation within sixty (60) months from the date of the BOT Agreement 
  
   
5. The exemptions from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this Order shall apply to the Project      
Company and to its contractors and sub-contractors as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka 
(hereinafter referred to as "BOI"). Upon the expiration of the said exemptions, the then prevailing taxes shall 
become applicable. 
 
  
SCHEDULE 
  
1. Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 
 
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 relating to the imposition of income tax on the       
 Project Company on the profits and gains generated from the activities from the Project shall not apply for a 
 period of twenty-five (25) years (Tax Exemption Period) 
 
The tax exemption period shall commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable 
profits or two (02) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever occurs earlier. 
 
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid tax exem ption period income tax in respect of the profits, gains 
and income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 
24 of 2017 for the time being in force. 
 
(ii) Dividends distributed and received by shareholders out of the exempted profit, gains shall be exempted from 
the income tax during the said tax exemption period of Twenty-five (25) years and one (01) year thereafter. 
 
(iii) The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax (WHT) on the following: 
 a. interest on foreign loans taken for the capital expenditure 
 b. technical fees to consultants employed in the project 
 
(iv) The expatriate employees of the project company sha ll be exempted from the income tax arising from the gains 
 and profits from employment in relation to the aforesaid project for a period of five (05) years subject to a 
 maximum number of twen ty (20) expatriates. 
 
 
  
2. The Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (VAT Act) 
 
All imports of project related goods required for the implementation of the project as approved by the BOI, shall 
be exempted from the payment of Value Added Tax (VAT) during the Project Implementation Period of five (05) 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකොටස : (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.11.15 
PART  I : Sec (1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2021 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
years from the date of the BOT Agreement. VAT on local purchases of project related goods or services during the    
project implementation period shall be deferred. 
 
Thereafter the payment of VAT will be zero rated if the se rvices provided fall within the provisions of paragraph
(b) or (c) of subsection (1) of Section 7 of the VAT Act. Any other  services, other than the services which are 
zero rated, will be liable to payment of VAT at the applicable rate. 
 
3. The Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011 
 
The Project Company shall be exempted  from the charge and payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy 
 (PAL), on the project related goods as approved by the BOI, imported during the Project Implementation Period 
 of five (05) years from the date of the BOT Agreement. 
 
4. Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 
Import of project related items as approved by the BOI shall be exempted from the payment of CESS during the 
Project Implementation Period of five (05) years from the date of the BOT Agreement. 
 
5. Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) 
All imports of Project related items (other than the items listed in the Negative List published by the Ministry of 
 Finance) as approved by the BOI, shall be exempted from the payment of Customs Import Duty (CID), during the      
 Project Implementation Period of five (05) years from the date of the BOT Agreement. 
 
However, any importation of items in the Negative List sh all be considered by the BOI where such items are   
 either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and time line for      
 project completion. 
  
 
 M AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, M. P., 
 Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation. 
  
Ministry of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation. 
15th November, 2021, 
 
 
11-688
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 