

<!-- page 1 -->

317
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.10'08
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 08.10.2021
wxl 2"249- 2021 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.10'08
No. 2,249– FriDAY , 08 OctOber, 2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AtteNtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th October, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th October, 2021.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1
st January 2021
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
317- B 82275 - 353 (10/2021)
Page Page
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 318
N. B.  Parts I : III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,248 of 01.10.2021 were not published. 
Note.–    (i) Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of 24th September, 2021.
(ii) Samadhi Health Service, Environment, Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre (Incorporation) Bill is published as a
supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 24th September, 2021.
(iii) Kelaniya Buddhist Women's Charitable Society (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 24th September, 2021.


<!-- page 2 -->

318
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.10'08
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 08.10.2021
miscellaneous notices
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
An  AcT  To  IncoRPoRATe  The  SAWeeRA  founDATIon
I, Pradeep Undugoda, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic So-
cialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate the SAweeRA 
Foundation''.
   The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following general objects :-
 (a)  Conducting courses, lectures and seminars to encourage self-employment among the community, directing them 
to jobs and providing them with necessary training and support ;
 (b) Making interventions to eradicate violence from the society through legal advice and awareness raising necessary 
to combat violence against women and children ;
 (c) Organizing programmes to alleviate poverty as much as possible and disseminating information on such                         
programmes among  people,
ect.
 (Major)  Pradeep Undugoda,
 Member of Parliament.
10-81