

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 150
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 146
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"004 – 2017 ckjdß ui 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'01'27
No. 2,004 –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy  27, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th february, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd  february, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
143
Note.–  Revocation of irrevocable deeds of Gift on the ground of Gross ingratitude Bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of january 20, 2017. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
144
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
145
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
146
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  NAvAL  fORCE
Vacancies for Artificers
VacaNciES exist  in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval force 
for Artificers.
2. applications are invited from male candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below : 
Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions 
for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval force.
 (a) Nationality   :- Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Age :- Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 24 years as at 28th 
february 2017.
 (c) Height  :- Not less than 160 cm
 (d) Weight :- Not less than 47 kg
 (e) Chest :- Not less than 76 cm
 (f) Color vision :- STD II
 (g) Visual  Acuity :- Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles and lenses)
 (h) Civil Status :- Candidates must be unmarried. 
No recruit will be permitted to 
get married whilst under training 
and until qualified to able rate
3. Education Quailfications : 
 (a) Enlisted are made in under mentioned Branches 
of Sri Lanka Navy to follow National diploma in 
Engineering programme (3 years) offered by the 
General Sir john Kotalawala defence university.
 (1) Marine Engineering (For Engine Room 
Artificers)
 (2) Electrical Engineering (For Electrical Artificers)
 (3) Electrical and telecommunication Engineering 
(for Radio Electronic Artificers)
 (4) automobile Engineering (for automobile 
Artificers)
 (5) Ship construction Engineering (for Shipwright 
Artificers)
Be eligible to apply for the relevant Branch, the applicant 
should have passed six subjects including Science and 
English and a credit pass for Mathematics at the G. C. E. 
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings and should 
have passed Combine Mathematics and Physics at the       
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting. (A certified copy 
of the result sheet issued by the commissioner General of 
Examination should be attached).
Note.– No optional subjects are considered for                
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination. 
4. due consideration will be given to outstanding  
achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirements of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skills or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
Sri Lanka Navy be considered even though he may not 
have the requisite height provided he possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :
 (a) the candidates will be enlisted as recruits and 
must undergo a Basic training course.
 (b) Recruits should be ready to undergo training at 
a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the Navy with the consultation of 
the Ministry of Defence.
 (c) during the period of training as a recruit and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to Naval 
Law.
 (d) Every recruit will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
 (e) during the period of training,  recruits will be 
provided with accommodation and food in the 
general mess.
 (f) in the event a recruit voluntarily terminates his 
candidature during training, he will be required to 
refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
147
 (g) if at any time during his course, a recruit is 
reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his control to qualify for a commission, he will 
be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy all 
expenses incurred on his training and will be 
required to ente r into a bond to this effect with 
the commander of the Navy acting on behalf of 
the Government of Sri Lanka. 
 (h) candidates who pass the Physical Endurance test 
will be called for the preliminary interview and 
those who pass preliminary interview called for 
a written test and a viva voce . considering the 
marks obtained at these tests and the existing 
vacancies the candidates who have obtained 
higher marks will be enlisted. 
 (i) all sailors are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time. 
 (j) all Sailors are governed  by Naval Law.
7. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances.- Salary and wages are paid with 
effect from 01.01.2016 as per the Management Circular 
No. 03/2016.
 (a) initial Salary - Rs.17,684.00
 (b) cost of living - Rs.7,800.00
 (c) uniform cleaning - Rs.170.00
  allowance
 (d) Hard line allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (operational areas)   training
 (e) Hard line allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (Non-operational  training
  areas)
 (f) other allowances - Special allowance 
    Rs. 1,000  
 (g) Special additional  - Rs. 2,400 
  allowance
 (h) adjustment - Rs. 9,822.00
  allowance 
  t otal - Rs.38,876.00
  approximately
Note.– the initial salary of an sailor is Rs. 30,140 
with effect from 01.01.2020 and it will be given 
annual increments with effect from as follows.
 (1) 01.01.2016 - 176 x 5 - 210x19
 (2) 01.01.2020 - 300 x 5 - 370 x19
 (j) three sets of holiday Railway warrants per year 
(for sailor, spouse children and dependents as 
applicable). 
 (k) an additional set of Railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for sailors living in 
the mess to travel from the Navy Base to their 
Hometown once a month.
 (l) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (m) free medical facilities (for sailor, spouse, 
children and dependents as applicable)
 (n) Rent allowances for married Sailors not in 
occupation of a Government married quarter 
from Rs. 1,600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
 (p) Married sailors may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Rent will be levied as 
applicable to public servants. 
9. Instructions to applicants :-
 (a) applications should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to this notification and should be 
completed clearly in applicant's own handwriting. 
duly completed applications should be forwarded 
to "Senior Staff Officer (Recruitment), P. O. Box 
593, Navy Headquarters, colombo - 01" under 
registered cover on or before 1200 hrs. on 28th 
february 2017. the top left hand corner of the 
envelope containing the application should bear 
"Enlistment of Artificers". Applications received 
after the closing date and time and applications 
do not comply with the conditions stipulated in 
the Gazette notification will not be entertained. 
further information could be obtained from 
www.navy.lk or 0112215154. 
 (b) Candidates who are in Government Service/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their Heads of Department/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate 
will be released if selected. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
148
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to 
do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates in support of the qualifications 
required for the branch applied for;
 (3) School leaving certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladari certificate (Taken within six 
month to closing date);
 (5) Certificates of trade / technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution;
 (6) Two recent certificates of character. One 
of these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from the 
present employer (if employed);   
 (7) Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
relevant documents when requested to do so will 
not be considered.
 (e) No other documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for loss 
of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 
10.  any Statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
11. Selection Interviews etc. :-
 (a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirement 
should pass the basic medical test conducted 
by the Sri Lanka Navy Medcial Board. Only 
the candidates who pass the basic medical test 
should pass the Physical Endurance test. those 
who qualify from the Physical Endurance test 
should appear for a interview.
 (b) Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical 
Endurance Test :
  exercise Rounds Time
    (Minutes/Seconds)
2,400m. run - 11 minutes or less
Push up 20 or more 02 mintues
Sit up 15 or more 02 minutes
arm Bending 07 or more -
 (c) candidates selected for interviews will be 
infromed in writing of the place, time and date 
of such interviews. travelling or other expenses 
will not be paid in this respect. 
 (d) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he is to produce his National 
identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (e) candidates likely to be suitable for their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before a Sri Lanka Navy Medical 
Board.
 (f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (g) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
Note : This Gazette notification is published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English. in the event of any 
inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English 
texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 Rc 
Wijegunaratne,WV ,RWP & Bar, 
 RSP,VSV ,uSP, ndc,psn.
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
Po. Box 593,
colombo 01.
aPPLicatioN foR PoSt of REcRuit aRtificER 
iN tHE SRi LaNKa NaVy
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of certificate)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
149
02. Stream applied (in priority order) :––––––––––.
03. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.
04. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Postal Address :––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
08. Age :
 Years :––––––––. Months :–––––––.Days:––––––––. 
(As at 28th August 2017):
09. Height :––––––––––, (cm) 
 Chest :–––––––––,(cm) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :                           
––––––––––.
11.  District :––––––––––.
12. Electorate :––––––––––.
13. G.S. Division :––––––––––.
14.Telephone Number :––––––––––.
15. Civil Status :––––––––––.
16. Gender :––––––––––.
17. School attended :––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School or university attended :
  Name of Type of Year of Subject passed 
  School/ examination examination (including
  University   Grading)
    ordinary
    Level:
    advanced
    Level:
    Other :
19.  Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university (if applicable) :
  Name and address Nature of Period of Service
  of employer employment From         To
20. Particulars of Parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present 
   Birth  Address
father
Mother
21.  any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
22.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ 
years etc. and standards/ levels achieved) :–––––––––.
23. Other achievements of note at School/University or at 
outside organizations (Give details with dates/years 
etc.) :––––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or 
any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications :––––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :––––––––––.
27. if employed earlier in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, universities, joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials :
  Name  Designation Postal Address
29. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for the Artificer Branch 
in the Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the 
Government of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
01–816  
    

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
150
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
  (vi) the Examination will be held in Sinhala, 
Tamil & English Media. No candidate will be 
allowed to change the medium of language 
indicated in the application.
03. Age Limit.– applicants should not be less than 18 
years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date 
of applications.
04. Educational and other Qualifications. – all 
applicants should have completed following qualifications 
satisfactorily:
  (i) Should pass the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) Examination in 
six (06) subjects with credit passes for four 
subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English 
Language Mathematics, and Science in one 
sitting. 
  (ii) Should pass at least one subject from of the 
General Certificate of Education  (Advance  
Level) (Except common test).
  (iii) Professional qualifications.- qualifications 
gained at the field is considered as  a special 
qualification.
  (iv) Applicant  must be citizens of Sri Lanka and 
must have a sound character.  
  (v) Should possess physical and mental fitness to 
serve in any part of the island and to perform 
his / her duties in the post.
05. Method of Recruitment :
  (i) Applicants, who are qualified under above 
Section 04 and passed from all subjects at the 
written test, will be summoned for a structured 
interview. in this case, 25% more number of 
candidates of the number to be recruited, will 
be called for the interview. Recruitment will 
be made in the descending order of the total 
marks obtained from both written test and 
the interview based on the available / actual 
number of vacancies.
  (ii) Marks will be given as follows at the structured 
interview :
 
mINISTRy Of mAhAWELI DEvELOPmENT 
AND ENvIRONmENT fOREST 
DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Forest Extension Officer in the 
forest Department – 2016 (2017)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who possess qualifications for recruitment to the Post of 
Forest Extension Officer in the Forest Department.
applicants who have already applied as per the 
notification appeared in the Government Gazette dated 
15.05.2015 are eligible to sit for this examination and they 
are not required to apply again.
01. Salary Scale :
  (i) Training Grade : MN:1 - 2016 According to 
Public administration Circular No. 3/2016–   
Rs. 27,140 - 10x300-11x350-10x495-10x660 
- Rs. 45,540.
02. General terms of Engagements and Service 
Conditions:
  (i) this appointment is permanent & pensionable. 
the selected candidates should make 
Contributions to the Widow / widower and 
orphan’s Pension scheme.
  (ii) the appointment will be subjected to a 
probation period of three years.
 
  (iii) Forest Extension officers are responsible for 
the coordination of, development programs   
implemented by the department at regional 
level, confirming the efficient and successful 
participation of community.
 
  (iv) Places of service of the Extension officers are 
located in arduous and forested areas. the 
selected candidates should prepare to serve in 
any part of the island.
 
  (v) General conditions of service governing 
appointments in the Public Service mentioned 
at the paragraph (2) of the Gazette Notification 
are applicable.
 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
151
Heading to be tested Maximum 
marks
1. Additional Educational qualifications 30
2. Professional Qualifications 30
3. computer Literacy    15
4. Language Proficiency 20
5. Skills show at the interview 05
     Total marks 100
 
  (iii) When there are several applicants have scored 
same marks for the last vacancy, only the 
applicants who have scored marks higher 
than that marks will be recruited as per the 
paragraph 5.1
  (iv) the result sheet prepared according to the 
descending order of the total marks obtained 
from written test and the structured interview 
will be handed over to the conservator General 
of Forests. Results will be notified to all the 
applicants personally by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or through 
the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
  (v) candidates selected under above 5.1 should 
pass the examination which will be held after 
one year theoretical and practical training 
course to be conducted at the Sri Lanka 
forestry institute, Nuwara Eliya within 05 
years from the date of recruitment to the post.
  (vi) candidates selected from the open examination 
will be on probation for a period of 03 years 
and will be confirmed in the post after passing 
the dendrology test and completion of 03 years 
satisfactory service.
 
06. Syllabus.– the written examination consists of two 
question papers:
intelligence test Durations – 01 hour, Marks - 100
this written question paper consists 
of questions to assess the numerical 
ability, logical ability and general 
intelligence relevant to the subject. 
there will be 50 multiple choice 
questions and short answer questions. 
all the should be answered  
General test Durations   - 2 hours, Marks - 100 
there will be one question 
paper to test the knowledge and 
understanding of the applicants on 
forest conservation, communication 
methods, forest extension activities, 
nursery management forest plantation 
and community participatory 
development activities.
 
 (i) the applicants should sit for both these question 
papers in one medium of language. they shall 
have to score minimum of 40% marks for each 
paper to pass the written examination.
07. Applications and other Information :
 (i) t he applications should be in conformity with 
the specimen application appended at the end 
of this notice. it should be prepared on papers 
sized 21 x 29 cm.(A4 size) using both sides 
by the applicants and nos. 1-8 in the specimen  
application should be included in page 01 and 
the rest in page 02. the application should 
be completed in the medium of language in 
which the candidate is eligible to sit for the 
examination. the applications should be sent 
under the registered cover to the commissioner 
General of Examination, Organizational & 
foreign Examination Branch, department of 
Examination, P. o. Box 1503, colombo, on or 
before 28.02.2017. “Recruitment to the post of 
Forest Extension officer (open) – 2016” should be 
clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope (applications should not be sent to any 
personal name or to any other address).
 (ii) incomplete and delayed applications will be 
rejected without prior notice.
 (iii) No complaints regarding lost of applications in 
the post will be entertained.
 (iv) the signature of the applicant should be attested. 
an applicant applying through the institution 
should get his signature attested by the Head of 
the institution or any officer authorized by him. 
other applicants should get their signatures 
attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Retired Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, 
justice of Peace, Sworn commissioner, Lawyer, 
Public Notary, Commissioned Officer in the 
Army, Navy, Air Force or an Officer holding 
a staff grade permanent post in Public Service 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
152
or Provincial Public Service receiving annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/= or above the 
chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or a clergy 
of other religion. 
 (v) the application which are not in conformity with 
this notice will be rejected.
 (vi) applicants who are already in government service 
should forward their applications through their 
head of the institution/ Department.
 (vii) Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged.
08. examination Fees:
 (i) Examination fee is Rs.600 .the receipt obtained 
on payment of this fee to any  Post office or sub post 
office under the revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations should be 
pasted in the relevant place given in the application 
before 28.02.2017 ( Retaining a photocopy of the 
receipt with the applicant will be useful).
 (ii) the fee is not refundable and not transferable to 
any other examination.
09. the applicant must produce one or the entire 
document given below when required. 
 (i) Birth Certificate;
 (ii) Educational Certificates;
 (iii) A certificate obtained from Grama Niladari 
recently (With the countersign of the divisional 
secretary)
 (iv) Two character certificates;
 (v) Other relevant certificates;
Note.– Documents /certificates or photocopies of 
them should not be sent along with the application.
10.  The examination centers  and Admissions cards:
 (i) the examination will be held at the examinations 
centers in towns mentioned in schedule 1 -of this 
notice. the town where the candidate wishes to 
sit for the examinations and its number should be 
mentioned as first and second choice at the Head 
of the application.
  When there are no sufficient applicants to hold the 
examination in a particular town, those applicants 
will be directed to the town mentioned as their 
second choice or to another closer town. further, 
when there are no sufficient applicants to hold the 
examination in all proposed towns or majority 
the commissioner General of Examination will 
take necessary actions to hold the examination in 
colombo.
 (ii)   admission card will be issued to the candidates 
who are within the age limit mentioned in the 
notice and  have sent duly perfected application 
forms before or on the closing date 28.02.2017 
along with the receipt obtained after paying 
examination fee by the commissioner General 
of Examination. a notice in this regard will be 
published in news paper by the department of 
Examination, as soon as the admission cards 
were issued. if the candidate has not received 
the admission card at least 02 or 03 days before 
from the date on which the examination to be held 
as per the notice, he / she should inquire from 
the department of Examination. during these 
inquiries the applicant should mention the name 
of the examination applied, full name, national 
identity card number and address accurately. it 
may be more effective to submit a fax number if 
any, along with the other information to obtain 
a copy of the admission card if you are outside 
Colombo. It will be benefitted if you can produce 
a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt 
obtained after paying examination fee and the 
receipt obtained after sending the application by 
registered post during inquiries.
 (iii) the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she has the 
requisite qualifications to sit for the examination 
and the admission card in which his /  her signature 
has been duly attested should be submitted to the 
head of Examination centre on the very first day.
 (iv) the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination regarding the conduct 
of the examina tion and issue of results. these 
who violate such rules and regulations will be 
subjected to any punishment determined by the 
commissioner General of Examination.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
153
11. Identity of the candidate. – a candidate must prove 
identity to the    satisfaction of the invigilator and one of the 
following documents will be accepted:
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of persons,
 (ii) a  valid passport.
12. Furnishing False Information.– if the candidate is 
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancel 
date any stage prior to or during or after examination. if 
any of the particulars furnished by a candidate who is in 
public service, is found to be false with his knowledge or if 
he has willfully suppressed any important fact, he will be 
liable to dismissal from public service. 
13. actions will be taken as per the decisions of the 
conservator General of forests with regards to the matters 
that have not been mentioned in this notice.
14.  if there is any inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English    texts   of this notice then Sinhala text shall be 
accepted.
                     
conservator General of forests.
forest department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
 
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR 
RECRUITMENT TO THE   POST OF FOREST 
EXTENSION OFFICER OF THE FOREST 
DEPARTMENT - 2016
town in which it is expected to sit for the examination.
Town No. of the Town
1st choice
2st choice
(complete as per Schedule -1)
01.  Medium of Examination   
 Sinhala   - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)  
02.  (i) Name with initials indicating initials at the end :   
  ––––––––––––––.  (in block capitals)
       (eg.: GUNAWARDHANA.M.G.B.S.K.)
  (ii) full name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Full name (In Sinhala /Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03.  (i) Address to which admission card to be posted  :  
  –––––––––––. (in block capitals) 
    (ii) Permanent Address (In Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––.
04. Gender                
     (Write the relevant number in the  cage)
 Male  - 0 
 female  -  1 
05.National Identity  Card  No. :
06.  (i) Date of Birth :-
      Year Month Date
    (ii) Age at 28.02.2017 :
          Years Months Days
07. Citizenship:
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 By descent     -   1
 By Registration -   2
08. telephone number
09. Educational Qualifications:
    (i) General Certificate of  Education  (Ordinary Level)
   Year :––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––.  
Subject Grade

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
154
  (ii) General Certificate of Education 
   (Advanced  Level) :
   Year :––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––.  
Subject Grade
10. Other Educational Qualifications :–––––––––.
11. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––.
12.  (i) The Post Office  to which the   examination fee 
was paid :–––––––––.
      (ii) Number of the cash receipt and date :–––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt here
13.   (i)  Have  you ever been convicted for any offence by a 
              Court of Law? Yes / No :–––––––––.
       (ii)  if Yes ,give details :–––––––––.
14. If you are already employed, give particulars :
       (i) Institute :–––––––––.
  (ii) Date of first  appointment :–––––––––.
   (iii) Designation :–––––––––.
      (iv) Salary :–––––––––.
15. Names and address of two non-related referees :
 (a) ––––––––––––––
 (b) ––––––––––––––
16. Declaration of the applicant :
     i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct.  i am aware that if any 
particulars given in the application are  found to be incorrect 
prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified and if 
it is found after the selections, i am liable to be dismissed 
without any compensation. further i hereby declare that i 
will be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination for conducting  
Examinations and issue of  results.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
  (Should place the signature before the attester)
Date :–––––––––.
17. Attestment of the applicant’ s signature :
I do hereby certify that applicant Mr. /Mrs./ Miss 
.............................. is known to me personally and he / she 
placed his / her  signature before me on ................. 2017.
   ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attestor.
Name of the attestor :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
18.  If the applicant is in Public / Provincial Public service, 
the relevant Head of   the institution should complete 
the following.
I hereby certify that applicant Mr./ Ms. ............................. 
is Serving  in this Ministry / Department/Office as a 
.......................... holding a permanent/ temporary post and 
the particulars furnished by him / her are true and correct. 
He / She can be released / cannot be released from the 
present post if he / she is selected for the above post.
     –––––––––––––––––, 
  Signature of the   Head of the department                  
  or an Officer Authorized by him. 
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
(place the rubber stamp )
Date :–––––––––.
(cut  the unnecessary words)
(No document or a copy of it should be annexed other than 
the receipt obtained after paying examination fee)
ScHEduLE  - 1
town and the number of towns in which Examination 
centers are to be established.
  Town Number of the Town
 colombo 01 
 Gampaha 02 
 Kalutara 03
 Kandy 04
 Matale 05
 NuwaraEliya 06
 Galle   07

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
155
 Matara 08
 Hambantota  09
 jaffna 10
 Mannar 11
 Vavuniya 12
 Mulative 13
 Kilinochchi 14 
 Batticaloa 15
 ampara 16
 t rincomalee 17
 Kurunegala 18 
 Puttalam 19
 anuradhapura 20
 Polonnaruwa 21
 Badulla 22
 Monaragala 23
 Ratnapura 24
 Kegalle 25
01-920
–––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  hIGhER  EDuCATION  AND  
hIGhWAyS  
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological 
Education 
ADMISSION  OF  STUDENTS  TO  THE  ADV ANCED  
tEcHNoLoGicaL  iNStitutES  
FOR  THE  ACADEMIC  YEAR – 2017
aPPLicatioNS are called for the Higher National 
diplomas conducted by  Sri Lanka institute of advanced 
technological Education (SLiatE) form those who have 
successfully completed the GCE Advanced Level (A/L) 
Examination on or before 2016.
How to Apply.–  All duly filled applications prepared 
according to the Specimen application form appeared below 
should be sent to the relevant advanced technological 
Institute (ATI)/ATI Section as mentioned in the Section 
“B”, under registered cover with the bank receipt obtained 
by crediting of Rs.500  (five hundred rupees) to the 
SLiatE account No. 025-2-001-1-3397613 at People’s 
Bank, Hyde Park Branch colombo 02 or any other branch 
of  the People’s Bank  in Sri Lanka. the course applied 
should be clearly stated on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope.
candidates who wish to apply for more than one institute 
should submit separate applications to each institute 
applied, while attaching separate receipt worth  Rs. 500 
for each of those applications. if the money is credited 
to some other account numbers other than the specified 
account number, application will be rejected.  
applications received after the closing date (28.02.2017) 
will not be entertained.   
Addresses of the Advanced Technological Institutes/
ati Sections as well as the courses conducted by those 
institutes are available in the Section ‘B’ and the applicants 
should select their academic programs from the list given 
in Section ‘A’ according to their qualifications. 
Mode of conduct of programs : 
Full Time Courses : During weekdays 
Part Time Courses :  During Weekends 
Medium of Instruction : English
Part - time courses are conducted for those who are 
employed in  relevant fields.  
Course fees.–  No course fees are levied for full time 
courses.  Part - time course fees per semester are as 
follows : 
Higher National diploma in  Rs.  5,000 
  accountancy - HNda 
Higher National diploma in English  Rs.  8,000
  (HNd in English)
Higher National diploma in information  Rs.  12,000
  technology - HNdit
Interview.– Short listed candidates will have to either sit 
for a written test and/or face an interview for the selections. 
the short listing of students will be based basically on the 
Z-Score of the advanced Level Examination. date, time 
and venue of the written test will be notified in writing. 
Necessary original documents are to be submitted in the 
interview. When the original documents are not available, 
certified photocopies will be accepted with the agreement 
of submitting the originals at the time of registration to the 
academic program.    
Hostel Facilities.– Limited number of hostel facilities 
are available only for girls at atis  Gampaha and dehiwala. 
Girls and boys are provided with hostel facilities at ati 
ampara and colombo. this facility is available only for 
the full time students. 
  
  Town Number of the Town

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
156
Section "A" 
 01.1 higher National Diploma in Accountancy - hNDA 
(full Time)  -  4 years
  Applicants should have one of the followings 
qualifications :-
 (i) Passes for three subjects in one sitting at the G.c.E. 
(A/L) Examination  with Business Statistics, 
Combined   Mathematics or Accountancy as one 
of the three subjects of which at least, two credit 
passes  should have been obtained. 
  A Credit pass in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination is considered as an alternative  
for a credit pass in  either Business Statistics, 
Combined Mathematics or   Accountancy at the 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ;
or
 (ii) Completion of National Certificate for 
accounting technicians conducted by the 
Department of Technical Education & Training;
and
   Ordinary pass in English at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination.
   
 01.2  higher National Diploma in Accountancy – 
hNDA (Part Time)  -  4 years
  Applicants should have one of the followings :- 
 (i) Passes for all four subjects (Old syllabus)  / 
three subjects (New Syllabus)  in one  sitting at 
the  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination ;
 (ii) Any of the certificate course given below and 
conducted by the department of technical 
Education and training (dtEt)
 A. Completion of  National Certificate in 
accounting technicians.
 B. Completion of National Certificate in Business 
Studies (accountancy Group).
 C. Completion of National Certificate in 
accounting. 
      Note.– applicant should be employed in the 
relevant field in a   Government Institution / 
Public Enterprises or a recognized firm.
  Those who possess the following qualification 
will be exempted from the 1st year and will be 
admitted to the 2nd year when satisfying the 
other entry requirements and availability of 
places :
 (i) completion of the National diploma in 
Business Studies/Business Finance conducted 
by the Sri Lanka institute of advanced 
Technological Education (SLIATE) ; or 
department of technical Education and 
training,
 (ii) completion of the Higher National diploma 
in Business Administration/Business 
Finance/Management conducted by the Sri 
Lanka institute of advanced technological 
Education (SLiatE),
 (iii) completion of second year, of the Higher 
National diploma in commerce conducted 
by the Sri Lanka institute of advanced 
technological Education (SLiatE) or 
department of technical Education and 
training,
 (iv) University Degree  in  relevant  field (Accountancy/
Business Administration/ B.Com. Marketing 
Management/Human Resourses Management/
Business Finance/Business Economics),
 (v) completion of caB i and caB ii or Licentiate 
i and ii at institute of chartered accountants 
of Sri Lanka (icaSL),
 (vi) completion of the chartered institute of 
Management Accountants (CIMA) - UK - 
Part i and Part ii,
 (vii) completion of the association of accounting 
technicians (aat-SL),
 (viii) Completion of the Certified Management 
Accountants (CMA)-SL. 
 02.  higher National Diploma in business 
Administration - hNDbA  -  (full time) – 2 ½ 
years
Applicant should have one of the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. c. E. 
(A/L) Examination in Bio Science, Mathematics 
or Commerce stream ;
or
 (ii) Successful completion of National Certificate 
in accounting technicians conducted by the 
Department of Technical Education and Training ;
and
  Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at 
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
157
03. higher National Diploma in business finance – 
hNDbf - (full  Time –  2 ½ years)
  Applicants should have the following 
qualifications :
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. c. E. 
(A/L) examination in Mathematics or Commerce 
streams ;
or
 (ii) Successful completion of National Certificate 
for accounting technicians conducted by the 
Department of Technical Education &  Training ;
and
  Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at 
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination. 
04.  higher National Diploma in building Services 
Engineering - hNDbSE  -  (full time) – 3 ½ years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in 
Mathematics stream in one sitting ;
and
 (ii) ordinary passes in English Language at the 
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
05.  higher National Diploma in Consumer Sciences 
and Product Technology - hNDCSPT  -  (full 
time) – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the                
G. C. E. (A/L) examination in any stream (Home 
Science should be one of the subjects) ;
and
   Ordinary passes in Mathematics and English 
Language at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
06.  higher National Diploma in Engineering hNDE   
-  (Civil) (full time) – 3 ½ years
  higher National Diploma in Engineering hNDE   
-  (Electrical/Electronic) (full time) – 3 ½ years
  higher National Diploma in Engineering hNDE   
-  (mechanical) (full time) – 3 ½ years
 Applicant should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in 
Mathematics stream in one sitting ;
and
 (ii) ordinary passes in English Language at the 
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
07.  higher National Diploma in English - (hND in 
English)  -  (full time/Part time) – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the             
G. C. E. (A/L) examination in any stream (Bio 
Science, Mathematics, Arts and Technology are 
preferable) and a "c" pass in English Literature 
or English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination ;
or
 (ii) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate 
or the diploma offered by English teachers.
 or
 (iii) A pass at the National Certificate in English 
for commerce, industry and further education 
conducted by the department of technical 
Education and Training with G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination three subjects in one sitting. 
08.  higher National Diploma in food Technology - 
hNDfT  -  (full time) – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the 
G. C. E. (A/L) examination in Bio Science or 
Mathematics streams ;
and
  Ordinary passes in Mathematics and English 
Language at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
09.  higher National Diploma in Information 
Technology - hNDIT  -  (full time – 2 ½ years/
Part Time - 2 ½ years)
 Applicants should have the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the           
G. C. E. (A/L) examination in any stream (Bio 
Science, Mathematics, Commerce, Arts (with 
ict as subject) and technology are preferable) ;
and
  Ordinary pass  in English and Mathematics at 
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
10.  higher National Diploma in management - 
hNDm  -  (full time) – 3 years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the            
G. C. E. (A/L) examination in any stream (Bio 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
158
Science, Mathematics, Commerce, Arts and 
Technology are preferable) ;
or
 (ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians 
or National Certificate in Business Studies 
(Public Administration/Marketing) conducted 
by the department of technical Education and 
training
  and
  Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at 
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
11.  higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying - 
hNDQS  -  (full time) – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in 
Mathematics stream in one sitting ;
and
 (ii) ordinary pass in English Language at the G.c.E. 
(O/L) Examination.
12.  higher National Diploma in Technology - hNDT 
(Agriculture)  -  (full time) – 3 years
 Applicants should have  the following qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the                     
G. C. E. (A/L) examination in Bio Science (two 
of which should be out of the following subjects 
: Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Biology and 
Physics) ;
and
  Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at 
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
13.  higher National Diploma in Tourism and 
hospitality management - hNDThm  -  (full 
Time) – 3 years
 Applicants should have one of the following 
qualifications : 
 (i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G. 
C. E. (A/L) examination in any stream (Bio 
Science, Mathematics, Commerce, Arts and 
Technology are preferable) ;
or
 (ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians 
or National Certificate in Business Studies 
(Public Administration/Marketing) conducted 
by the department of technical Education and 
Training ;
 and
  Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at 
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Note :
 * Part time candidates should have a permanent 
employment in a relevant field. 
 * full - time program includes minimum 06 
months in-plant training. 
 * Part -time program includes minimum 06 
months project. 
Section "B"
Names of the ATIs, Addresses, Telephone Numbers and the courses 
   Name of the ATI/ATI  Address  Telephone  Courses offered
   Section  Numbers
 01. advanced technological  inginiyagala Rd.,  063-2222056 HNda (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDIT
    institute, ampara Hardy   ampara 063-2223035 (ft), HNdt (agri), HNd in English (ft),  
     HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
 02. Advanced Technological  Akkara 111, Anula  Mawatha,  025-2234417 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),  HND in English 
    institute Section,    Pandulagama  (ft), HNd in English (Pt) HNdit (ft)
    Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura  HNDIT (PT), HMDTHM
 03. Advanced Technological  Greenland Drive, Badulla 055-2230218 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
    institute, Badulla.  055-2223818 HNdit (ft), HNdit (Pt), HNd in English  
     (FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
 04. Advanced Technological  Main Street, Kovil Kulam  065-2247519 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
    institute Section, Batticaloa   East, arayampathy  (ft), HNd in English (Pt), HNdit (ft),
     HNDIT (PT), HNDTHM

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
159
 05. Advanced Technological  No. 42, Rodrigo Place,  011-2521152 HNDE (CIVIL, MECH, ELEC),
    institute, colombo   colombo 15 011-2521282 HNdQS, HNdBSE
 06. Advanced Technological  No. 51, Waidya Rd.,  011-2738349 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, 
    institute, dehiwala   dehiwala  HNdBa, HNdit (ft), HNd in English   
     (ft), HNd in English (Pt), HNdBf,   
     HNDTHM
 07. Advanced Technological  Siridamma Mw.,  091-2246179 HNDE, (CIVIL, MECH, ELEC), HNDA 
    Institute, Galle   Labuduwa, Akmeemana  (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDTHM,   
     HNdBa, HNdit (ft), HNdit (Pt),   
     HNdt (agri), HNd in English (ft), HNd  
     in English (Pt), HNdQS
 08. advanced technological  Naiwala, Essalla,  033-2287519 HNda (ft), HNda (Pt), HNdit (ft),
    institute, Gampaha   Veyangoda 033-2292544 HNdit (Pt), HNdt (agri), HNdft, cSPt
 09. Advanced Technological  No. 665/2, Beach  Rd.,  021-2222595 HNDE, (CIVIL, ELEC), HNDA (FT), HNDA 
    Institute, Jaffna   Guru Nagar, Jaffna 021-2229803 (PT), HNDM, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT),  
     HNd in English (Pt), HNd in English (ft),  
     HNDTHM    
 10. Advanced Technological  No. 16, Keppetipola  081-2226644 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),  HNDM,
    Institute, Kandy Mawatha, Kandy   HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English   
     (FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM (FT)
 11. Advanced Technological   Bandaranayake Mawatha, 035-2221297 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
    institute, Kegalle Kegalle 035-2221713  HNd in English (ft), HNd in English (Pt)
 12. Advanced Technological  No.22/1, Wilgoda Rd.,   037-2229583 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, (FT)
  institute, Kurunegala. Kurunegala. 037-2224911 HNdit (ft), HNdft (Pt) HNd in English  
     (FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
 13. Advanced Technological Sri Lanka Institute of  011-2691307 HND in English (FT), HNDTHM, HNDBA
  Institute Section, Mannar Advanced Technological   
   Education, 320, 'janawathu 
   Piyasa', T. B. Jaya Mawatha, 
   colombo 10.
 14. Advanced Technological Sri Lanka Institute of  011-2691307 HND in English (FT), HNDTHM, HNDBA
  Institute Section, Monaragala Advanced Technological   
   Education, 320, 'janawathu 
   Piyasa', T. B. Jaya Mawatha, 
   colombo 10.
 15. Advanced Technological Old Urban Council 054-2050634 HNDTHM, HND in English (FT), HND in
  Institute Section,  Building, Nawalapitiya  English (PT), HNDM
  Nawalapitiya
 16. advanced technological  New town,  045-2231492 HNda (Pt), HNda (ft), HNdit (ft), 
  institute Section, Rathnapura. Ratnapura. 045-2231493 HNdit (Pt), HNd in English (ft) HNd in  
     English (Pt)
 17. Advanced Technological  Main Street, Sammanthurai. 067-2261304 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
  institute Section, Sammanthurai.   (ft), HNd in English (Pt), HNdit (ft)
 18. advanced technological  y ayawaththa, Netolpitiya,  047-2241845 HNda (ft), HNda (Pt), HNdit (ft), 
  institute Section,t angalle. t angalle. 047-2241846 HNd in Engilsh (ft) HNd in English (Pt)
 19. advanced technological  Kanniya Rd,Varodayanagar,  026-2223232 HNda (ft), HNda (Pt), HNdit (ft), 
  institute, trincomalee. t rincomalee. 026-2050617 HNdit (Pt), HNd in English (ft), HNd  
     in English (PT), HNDTHM
 20. advanced technological off a9 Road,  024-2052733 HNda (ft), HNda (Pt), HNd in   
  institute Section, Vauniya  Veppankulam, oamanthai,  English (ft), HNdit (ft), 
    Vavuniya  HNd in English (Pt)
   Name of the ATI/ATI  Address Telephone  Courses offered
   Section  Numbers

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
160
Note:-
 1. Higher National diploma in Engineering, 
Higher National diploma in Building Services 
Engineering and Higher National diploma in 
Quantity Surveying (full time) should attend 
classes during weekdays as well as on certain 
days during weekends, if the necessity arises. 
 2. Higher National diploma in accountancy 
programme (Full time)  for the first and second 
years is conducted only on weekdays. third and 
fourth years of this academic programme are 
conducted during weekends only.
 3. The first and second years of the Higher National 
Diploma in Management (Full time) courses 
will be conducted during the weekdays and the 
third year programme is conducted during the 
weekends. 
 4. a  pass in the General Paper is compulsory for the 
applicants qualified under the GCE (A/L) new 
Syllabus. 
 5. it is considered that the Z-Score or aggregate mark 
of the GCE (A/L) Examination is the selection 
criteria to select for each and every academic 
programme. 
 6. Preference will be given for the candidates passed 
in the subjects or in the field relevant to the 
academic programme. 
 7. for (full time) courses, preference will be given 
for those who are under 23 years. 
 8.   there should be at least 50 registered students to 
start a course in the particular ati Section.
 9. if the number of applicants exceeds the expected 
number of students, an aptitude test will be 
conducted institutional wise.
 10. for whatever reason no student will be transferred 
to any other advanced technological institute 
after they have been selected for a full time course 
in any particular ati or ati Section. 
 11. Students who have registered for the courses with 
three years or above can be allowed to cancel 
the registration before 60 days starting from the 
closing date of registration given by the relevant 
institute. 
Please note that the decision of the director General 
SLIATE will be the final decision on the admission of 
students to Advanced Technological Institute/Sections for 
the academic year 2017. 
For more information please visit our web site :                  
www.sliate.ac.lk
Closing date of applications 28.02.2017.
 
 dr. W
. Hilary e. Silv a, 
 director General,
 Sri Lanka institute of advanced  
 technological Education.
Office use only –  Course Number …………  
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI  LANkA INSTITuTE Of ADvANCED 
TEChNOLOGICAL  EDuCATION
Application form for Admission to higher National 
Diploma Courses in year 2017
         Name the Courses in the Order of preference                              
 1. ……………....…..............................…………...      
2. ……………....…..............................…………...
3. ……………....…..............................…………...
 1. Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
 2. Name/Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
 3. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 4. Date of Birth  : 
  Year :–––––––––,  Month :––––––––, Date :–––––––.
   Age (as at 28.02.2017) :  
  Years :–––––––,  Months :–––––––, Days :––––––––.
 5.  National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
 6. Email Address :–––––––––––.
 7. Sex  :–––––––––––.
 8. Administrative District :–––––––––––.  
  contact Phone Numbe r  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
161
 9. (i) Result of GCE (A/L) Examination  :
   Year:–––––––––––.   Index No.  :–––––––––––.      Medium :–––––––––––.
  Subjects Grade   
   1. ……………………. …………….
   2. ……………………. …………….
   3. ……………………. …………….  
     Common General Paper : (Pass/Fail)
 
  Aggregate/Z-Score of the above Examination :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Result of GCE (Ordinary Level) Examination :-
   Year:–––––––––––.            Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
  Subjects Grade            Subjects Grade
    1. ……………………. ……………. 6.  ……………………. …………….
   2. ……………………. ……………. 7.  ……………………. …………….
   3. ……………………. ……………. 8.  ……………………. …………….
           4. ……………………. ……………. 9.  ……………………. ……………. 
   5. ……………………. ……………. 10.  ……………………. ……………. 
        
 10.  Highest Qualification in English as a subject :–––––––––––.
 11. Only for part time courses : 
  Details of present employment :   
  Post  :–––––––––––.
  E.P.F. Number  :–––––––––––.
  Place of work and Address :–––––––––––.
  Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
  
i do hereby declare that i am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution.  i am 
aware that my registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that i concurrently follow 
a full time course at any other state institution. i do hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate 
to the best of my knowledge.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs.500. Payable to SLIATE should be affixed below.) 
Affix the bank slip for the amount of Rs. 500 credited to the 
SLIATE account in the Peoples bank
 Name of the Bank : People's Bank
 Branch : Hyde Park Corner Branch, Colombo 02
 Account No.  : 025-2-001-1-3397613
01-838

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
162
mINISTRy Of IRRIGATION AND WATER RESOuRCES mANAGEmENT 
Irrigation Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF SRI LANKA 
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE AT THE IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination to be held 
to fill the following vacancies in Sri Lanka Technological Service at the Irrigation Department.
1.1 Posts expected to be recruited
 Serial Designation Number of Grade to be recruited
 No.  Vacancies
 1 d raughtsman 41 t raining grade (for a training of one   year)
 2 drilling assistant 01 
 3 Research assistant (General) 03 
 4 Civil Engineering Material Surveyor 05
 5 Soil cartographer 01
 6 Hydrological assistant 04 t raining grade (for a training of two years)
 7 Hydrological field assistant 02 
 8 Research Assistant (Engineering Materials) 04 
 9 Soil Surveyor 02
 10 Research assistant (Hydraulics) 01
 11 Mechanical Foreman 06 Recruited to Grade III.After recruiting,  an in 
service training will be given at a workstation of 
the Irrigation Department for first 06 months. 
1.2 Nature of the duties of posts
 Serial Designation  Assigned duties
 No.
 1. Draughtsman 1. Preparation of / Checking detailed plans from designed sketches, basic 
parameters and drafts given by engineering staff: Preparation of / Checking 
plans, contour maps, longitudinal sections and cross section from land 
surveying and levelling: Preparation of / Checking blocking - out plans, 
plans of land acquisition, plans of operation and maintenance etc. of 
irrigation projects.
   2. Calculation of quantities: Rate analysis: Preparation of/ Checking bills of 
quantities.
   3. Checking work estimates, Preparation of/checking forms, schedules, 
according to work estimates related to procurements: Checking measurement 
books, payment bills, final payment reports and plans related to payments 
for work.
   4. Maintenance of technical data, reports of operations of irrigation projects. 
Preparation of / checking progress reports.
   5. custodianship and maintenance of plans, structural drawings, other drawing 
office documents, materials and instruments.
    Any other duties related to draughtsmanship assigned by the executive/ 
management.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
163
 2. drilling assistant * t esting the strength of ground, ground water leakage etc for major and 
medium scale constructions.
   * collecting rock and soil samples from soil layers of different depth levels 
for foundations of major constructions.
   * t aking measures to prevent leakage in rock layers and strengthening those.
   * Strengthening of completed constructions by injecting cement and 
chemicals, surface concrete lining by machines, taking measures for water 
leakages and other shortcomings.
   * Submission of reports lelated to above tasks.
   * operation, maintenance and repairing drilling machines, water pumps and 
other instruments and relevant diesel and petrol machineries required for 
above tasks.
 3. Research assistant * analysis for determining physical and chemical properties of soil and water 
  (General)   samples required for feasibility studies of ongoing and proposed irrigational 
projects and other development projects.
   * Preparation of solutions and reactives accurately. Proper handling of modern 
microelectronic, electric and electro mechanical instruments used in day -to 
-day analysis. accurate data analysis and proper maintenance of records. 
Processing of data obtained from analysis.
 4. civil Engineering * Surveying of engineering materials required for constructions of irrigation 
  material Surveyor   projects of irrigation department, quality controlling of the engineering 
materials (about the properties and strengths of soil and concrete materials) 
and certifying the standards.
   * Engage in engineering materials research activities for constructions carried 
out on the requests by government and private institutions.
 5. Soil cartographer * agglomerate and compiling soil survey and soil usage maps.
   * drawing and coloring maps using data given.
   * Preparing final soil map from the draft soil map.
   * Preparation of land classified, soil and land use map using aerial photographs 
and engineering surveys, coloring of  maps and calculation of areas, scaled 
up and scaled down maps: Drawing geographic plans for various soil 
profiles, Preparation of Graphs and drawing for reports given. Preparation 
of necessary things for printing of color maps. 
   * Preparing soil maps using computer software.
 6. Hydrological Assistant   By appliying scientific theories practically, calculation and analysis of 
hydrological and climatological data collected based on river basins 
and reservoirs island wide Sri Lanka for hydrological requirements. 
Computerization of data and analysis for data using computers Preparationand 
maintenance of daily, monthly, annual and long term reports. Preparation of 
said information for public and related institutions.
 Serial Designation  Assigned duties
 No.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
164
   * assure the accuracy and supervise the quality of collocted hydrological and 
climatological data and maintaining the certified data bank.
   * Collecting and computerizing date to predict increasing of the water levels in 
rivers and studying the flood - prone areas using new mathematical models.
   * Surveying and mapping the flood damage levels and flood - prone areas 
through field investigations.
   * collection of data frequently and giving warnings accordingly in during a 
flood situation or a close by situation in major rivers.
 7. Hydrological field  Maintaining hydrological unit office in selected river valleys by the 
  assistant   hydrology section and collecting required weather data, rainfall, river water 
levels and changes in the water level of close by tanks.
   * Submitting all the collected hydrological and weather data to the head office 
at the end of each month in order to check and record.
   * Measuring the discharges of rivers and tributaries at such water levels.
   * Continuously sending the field data required for early warning at times of a 
flood situation or a close by situation to the head office, keeping records of 
the changing flood levels with time at times of major flooding.
 8. Research assistant  Carring out research according to given specifications on the suitability of
  (Engineering materials)  engineering materials required for the constructions of irrigation projects 
at the irrigation department and certifying standards based on research 
findings:
    Engaging in quality control of engineering materials (characteristics and 
strenghs of soil and concretes) upon the requirement of the service.
    carring out research on engineering materials and certifying the standards 
for the constructions carried out on the requests of government and private 
institutions.
 9. Soil surveyor 1. Obtaining field data other data required for soil surveys and land use surveys 
carried out by land use division for ongoing and projects which are expected 
to be carried out in the future in irrigation and other development projects: 
classifying of each soil type according to the international soil classification.
   2. considering factors of soil formation (climate, Geography, Geological 
factors etc) deciding the location and the distribution of each soil category 
or series.
   3. obtaining soil samples as required, to prepare a detailed description of soil 
profiles according to the international standards. Handing over those soil 
samples to the laboratory for analysis. Confirming the accuracy of final soil 
map based on those analytical data and field observations and preparing the 
soil key.
   4. Analyzing the aerial photographs using aerial photography stereoscope of 
the related areas.
 Serial Designation  Assigned duties
 No.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
165
   5. Obtaining field data by soil surveys according to the intensity of data, 
identifying soil types according to the soil profiles.
   6. Preparing draft soil map based on observation data obtained at the field and 
adjusting to the required scale using the pantograph machine.
   7. Preparing land use maps using data obtained at the field and internet.
   8. obtaining data from GPS (Global Position System) instruments.
   9. obtaining data on the water conductivity of soil.
   10. Administration (supervision) of field laborers, watchman and drivers at the 
field and directly carrying out the financial duties of them.
 10. Research assistant  assisting the engineers in hydraulics lab, control of labor material and
   (Hydraulic lab)  instruments in field constructions relevant to hydraulics lab. Operation 
of hydraulics model. Maintenance of buildings and other infrastructure 
facilities, preparation of estimates and plans for construction in hydraulics 
division, involving in repairing of all electrical and mechanical instruments 
relevant to the department, preparation of specifications for purchasing of 
that instruments and supporting for preparing conformity certificates.
 11. Mechanical foreman  Assisting the mechanical engineer in administrating the minor staff and 
preparing the receipts for vehicles, machines etc. initiating duties with 
the technical assistant (mechanical) or work's clerk. taking over the times 
brought for repairs in the absence of the store keeper. obtaining the spare 
parts, tools and materials required for repairing. Maintaining stock books. 
assisting the mechanical engineer in preparing estimates. after repairing 
and returning the damaged spare parts, materials and equipments to the 
store. Entering the log note. Preparing total  cost (bills) with the technical 
assistant (mechanical) or cost clerk. Submitting the materials report for used 
spare parts, fuel and lubricants and other materials.
    t aking over machines and vehicles brought to the mechanical workshops 
for repairs and returning to the store keeper after repairing.
2.0 Method of recruitment :
 2.1 Based on the results of a written competitive examination to be held by an institute approved by the 
Director General of Irrigation, qualified persons will be selected by subjecting a number of applicants 
equivalent to the number of vacancies to a general interview according to merit order of passed 
applicants.
 2.2 The general interview is solely for checking the certificates and physical fitness of the applicant and not 
for allocating marks.
3.0 Salary scale.– Training grade - As per the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016, a monthly allowance 
of Rs. 18,728/= and an adjustment allowance of Rs. 7,110/= are entitled for first year of tarining to the date of 01/01/2017. 
Grade III -As per the Schedule I of the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016, the monthly salary scale 
attached to this post is Rs. 31,040/= - 10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550/= (MN3 - 2016). According to 
 Serial Designation  Assigned duties
 No.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
166
the schedule II of the said circular a basic salary of Rs. 21419/- and an adjustment allowance of Rs. 6,587/= are entitled 
to the date 01/01/2017.
4.0  Sevice category / service categories - Supervision Management Assistant Technical / Supervision Management 
assistant technical supra class.
 4.1  Grades - Grade iii
    Grade ii
    Grade i
    Special Grade
 4.2  Nature of the post - Permanent and Pensionable
5.0  Conditions for engagement in service and service conditions :
 5.1 applicants those who were taken in to the training grade, will be recruited to the grade iii upon the 
submission of the certificate issued stating the passing of the examination conducted by the Director 
General of irrigation at the successful completion of the training period.
 5.2 apprentices if any who are unable to pass the examination to be held at the end of the training, they 
are given the opportunity to extend their training period for not more than 06 months. the service of 
applicant those who are unable to pass the examination to be held again at the end of the extended 
training period, will be terminated.
 5.3 The appointment to the grade III is subjected to a probationary period of three years.First Efficiency Bar 
examination should be passed within 3 years from the date of recruitment to Grade iii.
 5.4 According to the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014, in addition to the language of recruitment, 
the required proficiency in the other official language should be obtained within five years from the date 
of recruitment to the post.
 5.5 this appointment is subjected to the Rules and Regulations of Public Services commission, the 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations and 
other departmental orders.
 5.6 Selected applicants should have the ability to serve in the workstations situated in the rural areas of the 
island in the irrigation field.
6.0 Age limit.– age should not be less than 18 and not more than 30 years at the closing date of applications.
7.0 Required Qualifications :
 7.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (a) Should have passed the G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination in 6 subjects including credit 
passess for Sinhala / Tamil / English Language, Science, Mathematics and one other subject 
within one sitting.
   and
 (b) For the posts of Draughtsman, Drilling Assistant, Civil Engineering Material Surveyor, Soil 
cartographer, Hydrological assistant, Hydrological field assistant, Research assistant 
(Engineering material), Research Assistant (Hydraulics), Mechanical Foreman,
  Should have passed the G. c. E (advanced Level) Examination in 3 science subjects including 
Applied mathematics / Pure mathematics / Combined mathematics and physics within one 
sitting.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
167
 (c) for the posts of Research assistant (General) and Soil Surveyor Should have passed the G. c. E. 
(advanced Level) Examination in 3 science subjects including chemistry, physics and one other 
science or mathematics subject within one sitting
 7.2 V ocational Qualifications.– For posts of Draughtsman and Mechanical foreman, should possess the 
following vocational qualifications in addition to educational qualifications mentioned in above 7.1.
 Draughtsman.– The relevant certificate issued by a technical college recognized by the Commission of 
tertiary and V ocational Education should be obtained at the successful completion of one year full 
time training course of draughtsmanship.
 Mechanical Foreman :
 (i) National Diploma in Technology offered by the University of Moratuwa or Hardy Advanced 
technological institute, ampara
  or
 (ii) National diploma in Engineering Sciences offered by the National apprentice and industrial training 
authority
  or
 (iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering Sciences offered by the Ministry of Education and Higher 
Education
  or
 (iv) diploma in technology offered by the open university of Sri Lanka
  or
 (v) Successful completion of part i of the Examination in Engineering conducted by the institute of 
Engineers, Sri Lanka
  or
 (vi) Having completed the level 06 of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) in related to the field of 
job
  or
 (vii) Having obtaind other technical qualification in technology recognized by the Commission of Tertiary 
and V ocational Education as equal to above technical qualifications in all aspects after consulting the 
Ministry of Higher Education and above certificate awarding institutions.
 7.3 Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the 
post and to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
 7.4 Other qualifications :
 
 1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 2. Should be of excellent moral character
 3. any personnel who hold a priesthood of any religion shall not be eligible to sit for this 
examination.
 4. Qualifications required for appearing for the examination are accepted only if the applicant has 
completed all the relevant qualifications and the specified age limit by the date mentioned in the 
notification for calling the applications.
8.0 Providing false information.– if any information mentioned in the application sent by you is found to be 
false or incorrect prior to the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such information is revealed after the 
recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss you from service, subjected to relevant actions.
9.0 Procedure of examination.– Examination is a written test consisting two subjects. the examination shall be 
held in Sinhala and tamil mediums and the medium in which applied for cannot be changed subsequently.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
168
 Question paper/ Subject area Time Total Marks Pass Mark
 intelligence test 1 hour 100 40
 Subject related technical test 3 hours 100 40
9.1  Syllabus for the examination :
 
 1. intelligence test
 Name of the Question paper Syllabus
 intelligence test consists of questions to judge the logical and analytical thinking and decision  
   making ability of the candidate.
 2. Subject related technical test :
  • For the post of draughtsman
 Name of the Question paper Syllabus
Subject related technical test calculating the quantities for given structures and assessing the knowledge 
on the quality of construction materials: Drawing a cross section and 
the front and rear views of an object according to the given notes using 
drawing principles.
 • For the posts of Civil Engineering Material Surveyor / Drilling Assistant / Research Assistant 
(Engineering Materials) / Research Assistant (Hydraulics) / Soil Cartographer
 Name of the Question paper Syllabus
 Subject related technical test the question paper is set to assess the knowledge in subjects such as 
Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry, Fluids and physical properties of fluids, 
hydrostatics, measuring units, reading scaled maps, scientific calculation.
 • For the posts of Soil Surveyor / Research Assistant (general)
 Name of the Question paper Syllabus
 Subject related technical test Part i (Physics)
      (a)  Light
     (b) Heat
      (c) Mechanics of Machines
      (d) Electricity and Magnetism
    Part ii (chemistry)
     (a)  organic chemistry
      (b) Quantitative and qualitative analysis
      (c) inorganic chemistry
      (d) General chemistry
 • For the posts of Hydrological Field Assistant / Hydrological Assistant
 Name of the Question paper Syllabus
 Subject related technical test this questions paper consisits of questions to acess the knowledge on 
subjects such as coordinate Geometry, dynamics, Statics, trigonometry, 
Fluid Mechanics, Statistics, Mechanics, Light (laws of refraction and 
reflection), Heat, Humidity, Electricity and Electronics.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
169
 * For the post of Mechanical Foreman
 Name of the Question paper Syllabus
Subject related technical test the question paper is set to assess the knowledge in physics, mechanics, 
applied mathematics and drawing a cross section or a front or back view 
of a machine or a part of a machine according to a given diagram using 
drawing principles:
 9.2 This examination will be held only in Colombo in April 2017. The final decision relating to the 
postponement or cancellation of the examination is rested with the director General of irrigation.
10.0  Preparation and Submission of the application :
 10.1 The application should be prepared by the candidate themselves on paper sized 21x29 cm (A4) using 
both sides. application should be prepared as such that topics from 1.0 - 6.0 to appear on page 01, 
from 7.0 -11.0 on the page 02, from 12.0 - 15.0 on page 03 and the topic 16.0 on page 04.
 10.2 applicants who are already in Public Service or Provincial Public Service should send their 
applications through their heads of departments and applicants who are serving in government 
cooperations, local government institutions etc. should sent their applications through their heads of 
institutes, on or before the specified date.
 10.3 applications should be prepared in the medium you are appearing for the examination.
 10.4 applications that do not comply with the specimen application and are not completed in every aspect 
will be rejected without any notice.
 10.5 Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. a complain regarding applications lost in the post 
will not be considered.
 10.6 issuance of an admission card to sit the examination does not mean that the candidate has fulfilled 
the requirement for the post.
 10.7 according to the post you are applying for, the words ‘‘ Recruitment to the post of  ........................of 
Sri Lanka technical Service at the irrigation department’’ shall be clearly mentioned on the top left 
corner of envelope.
 10.8 the signature of an applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government school, justice 
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed forces, an 
officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent position 
in a tertiary or senior level in Public Service as per the grading of Public administration circular                           
No. 06/2006.
 10.9 Final decision on filling vacancies, not filling vacancies or filling some of the vacancies and all other 
particulars is reserved by the director General of irrigation.
11.0 Sending the application .– completed application form should be sent by registered post to reach the 
following address on or before 28th february 2017.
 director General of irrigation
 irrigation department
 No. 230, Bauddhaloka Mw.,
 colombo 07.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
170
12.0 Sitting for the examination .– a candidate should 
submit his / her admission card to the supervisor. Candidates 
who are unable to submit the admission card shall not be 
allowed to sit for the examination. a candidate should sit 
for the examination in the same hall he / she is assigned to.
13.0 Identity of the candidate.– a  candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
 (a) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registrations of persons.
 (b) a  valid passport.
14.0 if there is any inconsistency among the Sinhala 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the 
Sinhala text will prevail.
 Eng. S. S. L. 
WeeraSingHe, 
 director General of irrigation.
irrigation department,
colombo 07,
on 09th january 2017.
 
Specimen application
open competitive examination for tHe recruitment to 
tHe poStS of Sri lanka tecHnological Service  at tHe 
irrigation Department - 2016
(For office use only)
1.0 Language medium of examination:
 Sinhala - 1
 t amil   - 2
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Post applied for :––––––––––.
 (Separate applications should be sent for each post)
3.0  Name with initials (initials at the end) :   
(Mr/Mrs/Miss).
  In Sinhala / Tamil :––––––––––.
  In English (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (e. g. PERERa  a. B. c.)
  3.1 Name in full :––––––––––.
   In Sinhala /Tamil :––––––––––.
   In English (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Sex (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
 Male   - M
 female  - f
6.0  Permanent Address (legibly) :
  In Sinhala / Tamil  :––––––––––.
  in English (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
  6.1 address to which the admission card should  
  be sent:
   In Sinhala / Tamil :––––––––––.
   In English (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
7.0 Telephone No. :
  Fixed :––––––––––.
 Mobile :––––––––––.
8.0 Residence:
  8.1 district :––––––––––.
  8.2 Divisional Secretariat Division :––––––––––.
9.0 Civil Status :
 Unmarried - 1 Married - 2
10.0  Date of Birth:
  Date: Month: Year:
 10.1 age as at closing date (28.02.2017) of 
applications :
  Years: Months: Days:
11.0 Educational Qualifications :
 11.1 Particulars of G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
examination:
   (i) year and the month of the 
    Examination :––––––––––.
   (ii) admission No. :––––––––––.
   (iii) Results:
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
 1.  6.
 2.  7.
 3.  8.
 4.  9.
 5.  10.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'27
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2017
171
 11.2 Particulars of G. c. E. (advance Level) 
examination:
   (i) year and the month of the 
    examination :––––––––––.
   (ii) admission No. :––––––––––.
   (iii) Results:
  Subject Grade  
  1.  
  2.  
  3.  
12.0 V ocational Qualifications:
 Studied Institute Period Certificate number 
  course   and valid date
13.0 Have you ever been the convict for any complain at a 
court?
 (Mark the relevant cage with ‘‘X’’)
 y es    No
 13.1  Mention details if yes :––––––––––.
14.0 Declaration of the applicant :
 i .......................................................... hereby certify 
that all the particulars given here are true and correct and 
also certify that i have not been expelled from public service 
or not compelled to retire on inefficiency as sympathetic 
alternative or treated as giving vacated the post. i am aware 
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false 
or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection 
and dismissed from service without any compensation if 
it is found after selection. further i agree to serve at work 
sites in the field of irrigation in any part of Sri Lanka if I am 
appointed to this post.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
15.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature :
 I  hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ............................. 
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he / She placed his signature under the above Para 
14 in my presence on ................................
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Certify by placing the official seal)
16.0  Certificate of the Head of the Department / Head 
of the institution (only for the applicants who are 
currently in service) :
I hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ............................
.......... who is submitting this application is serving in this 
department as ..................................... and the information 
he/she has given above is correct. Further, he/she can/
cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected 
for this post.
  
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department/ 
 Head of the Institution and the official seal.
Date :––––––––––.
01-851
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.