

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'26
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2011
769
769
wxl 1"721 - 2011 wf.daia;= ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'08'26
No. 1,721 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 26, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd September, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th
August, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 770
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.
Part I-II(A) of the Gazette No. 1,720 of 19.08.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'26
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2011
770
Provincial Councils Notifications
ARANAYAKA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By-Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council No. 12 of 1989 have approved the By-laws which have been
prepared by the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Ac t,
No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected within the limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
20th July, 2011.
BY-LAWS – CREMATORIUM
B
Y-LAWS FOR THE FUNCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF A CREMATORIUM
01. These By-laws are deemed as the enactments for the administration of the crematorium of the belonging of the Aranayaka
Pradeshiya Sabha situated at the Public Cemetery in Polambegoda in the context of cremations procedures in rating levying
charges and proper managment.
02. Cremations should not be executed in the crematorium of the Sabha without a, written order issued by the Chairman of the
Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha or an officer delegated by the Chairman to issue such orders on his behalf.
03. A person hereinafter referred to as the applicant making an application vide clause 02 in the By-laws must submit the
application to the Chairman annexing the undermentioned documents :–
(i) Death certificate issued by the Registrar ;
(ii) A certificate issued by the G.S of the relevant Division where the deceased was resident vouching the relationship
between the deceased and the applicant ;
(iii) If an inquiry had been conducted under the criminal procedure code in to the death of the deceased, the writ issued by
the magistrate or coroner under section 41.3 of the Births and Deaths registration Act, granting sanction for cremation.
(iv) If the corpse is the issue of a still birth the certificate under the Act 43.1 pertaining to the registration of Births and
Deaths.
04. Application must be entered in the register once they are handed over to the Chairman in the same serial order that they were
received by the Chairman.
05. If the corpse is to be cremated the charge stipulated in Clause 1 must be paid in addition to deposit of Rs. 1,000 and then the
cremation order must be handed over to the applicant the time of handing over the corpse to the caretaker of the crematorium
must be indicated on the cremation order.
06. If the corpse is not accepted for cremation the applicant must be informed so in writing, giving reasons.
07. Corpses would be accepted for cremations everyday between 6 a. m. and 8.30 p. m.
08. The corpse must be handed over to the crematorium in keeping with the time marked in the cremation order or a little earlier
the Pradeshiya Sabha will not take any responsibility for any inconveniences damages or incrured expenses arising as a result
of delayed handing over of corpses for cremation.
09. Former employees current employees and similarly former as well as current Chairman, Vice Chairman and Pradeshiya
sabha members are exempted from charges for the cremations of the corpses of their parents.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'26
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2011
771
10. The crematorium caretaker must record in the register the name of the applicant and the address, the name of the deceased
and where the person resided prior to death, the link between the deceased and applicant and the date and time of cremation,
in respect of each and every cremation carried out at the crematorium.
11. The ashes of a corpse cremated, must be removed within seven days of cremation by the applicant to do so, The Chairman
hold power for the disposal of ashes not removed within the stipulated period, on his discretion.
12. Access to the crematorium premises is not allowed unless permission has been obtained from the Chairman or the caretaker
but people who accompany an applicant in possession of a cremation order taking a corpse for cremation are considered to
have received the required permission to enter the crematorium premises.
13. After a corpse has been handed over to the crematorium, if the cremation is held up or interrupted due to mechanical failures
or power failures and the cremation has to be abandoned the Chairman can on his discretion arrange for the interment or allow
the applicant to use discretion in the context of interment.
14. Acting in any way to cause a breach in discipline and peace or damage property belonging to the Sabha within the
crematorium premises or interfere and obstructing the crematoriums caretaker and his assistants in the discharge of their
duties, must not be done. Decorations of any kind must not be done within the crematorium premises.
15. Maintaining the crematorium in a sound condition to carryout the cremation of corpses is responsibility of the Sabha and it
maintenance and repairs demands a closure of the crematorium for a certain period of time it will be notified by public notice
prominently displayed in the crematorium premises and in the notice board of the Sabha and this is a responsibility of the
Chairman.
16. Charges to be levied for the cremation of corpses can be annually brought in to effect on a proposal - secondment basis of
the Pradeshiya Sabha. The charges so brought in to effect stands subject to revision at times as needed by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
17. The ashes of corpses should not be interred within the crematorium premises.
18. Other than the hearse and vehicles granted access in to the crematorium premises all other vehicles are prohibited from
entering the crematorium premises.
19. In the event of any damage being caused to property within the crematorium premises by the applicant or any one or more
that accompanies the applicant, the estimated cost of such damage will be deducted from the money in deposit and the
balance or when no damage has been caused the full amount in deposit would be paid back only on the condition that the
applicant makes a request for a refund of the deposit money within 3 months of the date of depositing the money. If the
estimated cost of the damage exceeds the value of the money in deposit the applicant is liable to pay in full the estimated cost
of the damage.
20. If any person is convicted by a legally constituted court of law for having commited an offence or any offences in the context
of clauses 12 and 14 in these By-laws, the person so convicted becomes liable to the fines specified in sub section 122(2) of
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
21. If glossarial enlightment is needed for the implied meanings of words used in these By-laws, the word 'Sabha' refer to the
Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha, 'The Chairman' - Chairman of the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha or an officer delegated with
authority to function on behalf of the Chairman - crematorium 'caretaker' - a person appointed to be in charge of the
crematorium 'corpse' - a human deadbody or a still born baby, Employees - currently serving permanent and casual workers
and workers in retirement.
SCHEDULE 01
CREMATORIUM CHARGES
Rs. cts.
01. Within Aranayaka Division 5,000 0
Labour cost 200 0
02. Outside Sabha area 6,000 0
Labour cost 200 0

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'26
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2011
772
SCHEDULE 02
APPLICATION FOR A CREMATORIUM AT THE ARANAYAKA PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. Name in full :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
ID No. :–––––––––––.
Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
02. Deceased's name :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
ID No. :–––––––––––.
03. Relationship between the deceased and the applicant :–––––––––––.
04. Date of the death certificate (annex the death certificate) :–––––––––––.
05. Name and address of the death registrar :–––––––––––.
06. How the death occurred :–––––––––––.
07. If an inquiring was held, date and the time :–––––––––––.
08. Inquiring officers name and the status :–––––––––––.
09. Verdict of the inquiring officer :–––––––––––.
10. Whether permission has been granted for cremation :–––––––––––.
11. Date and the time for the cremation :–––––––––––.
12. Whether an addressed envelope provided for the purpose of ash removal of the cremation :–––––––––––.
The above mentioned particulars are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge (certificates have been annexed here with).
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Office use :
01. Issue of a cremation order is not approved/approved/rejected on the undermentioned reasons.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
Date :–––––––––––.
Chairman/Authorised Officer :
1. Entered in the register ............................. date No. ....................... receipt No total Rs. ............................ and deposit Rs. 1,000.
2. Forwarded for the cremation order.
3. Forwarding the letter for your signature for the refusal of a cremation order with supporting documents.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–617
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.