

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'06'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  06.06.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2283$18 - 2022 cqks ui 06 jeks i÷od - 2022'06'06
No.  2283/18  -  MONDAY ,    JUNE   06,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President 
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
BY HIS EXCELLENCY GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA
PRESIDENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
 Seal GOTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA
To :
 1.  Hon. Justice Buwaneka Pandukabaya Aluwihare Esquire, PC
  Judge of the Supreme Court
 2. Senadipathi Mudiyanselage Wickramasinghe Esquire
   Former Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police
 3. Nanayakkara Aparekkage Sujeewa Wasantha Kumara Esquire
   Additional Chief Valuer
GREETINGS !
WHEREAS, noting with deep concern and regret, the loss of life and injury to persons, damage and destruction to property 
due to vandalism of all forms including arson, and looting and theft that took place during March 31
st 2022 and May 15 th 
2022 in several parts of the country; 
1A - G 36902 — 366 (06/2022)
P.S. No. : PS/CSA/00/1/14/39.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'06'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  06.06.2022
2A
 And whereas, I am of the opinion that it is in the national interest, public safety and wellbeing to obtain information, 
and to investigate and inquire into the aforesaid incidents in order to ascertain the appropriate relief and/or remedies to be 
afforded to such persons;
 And whereas, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to obtain information 
and to investigate, inquire into and  report on matters hereinafter referred to;
 And whereas, noting that the investigation and inquiry under this warrant is in addition to and without prejudice to 
any measures that have been taken or which may be taken in the future by the law enforcement authorities and/or any other 
stakeholders to hold the perpetrators accountable and/or to bring the said perpetrators to justice;
 Now therefore, I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great 
trust and conﬁ dence in your prudence, ability, and ﬁ delity do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the Commissions 
of Inquiry Act, No. 17 of 1948 as amended (Chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said;
1.  Hon. Justice Buwaneka Pandukabaya Aluwihare Esquire, PC
  Judge of the Supreme Court
2.   Senadipathi Mudiyanselage Wickramasinghe Esquire
       Former Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police
3.   Nanayakkara Aparekkage Sujeewa Wasantha Kumara Esquire
  Additional Chief Valuer
to be my Commissioners to obtain information, and to investigate, inquire into and report on the following matters, namely;
(a)  claims of individuals, institutions, organizations and associations whose properties and personal effects 
were lost or subjected to vandalism of all forms including arson, and looting and theft that took place 
during March 31
st 2022 and May 15th 2022 in several parts of the country;
(b) identify and categorize the victims and the types of properties, whether movable or immovable, which 
were subjected to vandalism of all forms including arson, and looting and theft during the said period;
(c) set out the guidelines and/or the criteria for  assessing the loss and damage suffered by the said victims, 
and quantiﬁ cation of the loss and damage suffered by the said victims whose properties and personal 
effects were subjected to any of the aforesaid acts;
(d) assess whether the said losses and /or damages are covered and compensated by other alternative schemes 
such as insurance policies, institutional funding etc., pursuant to executive or administrative decisions 
or in terms of written laws of the Republic;
(e) assess the compensability of such claims, ceiling of compensation, quantum of compensation to be offered 
to the victims in the event of successful establishment of the losses and/or damages and the process of 
payment of compensation to eligible victims.
 And, I do hereby appoint you, Hon. Justice Buwaneka Pandukabaya Aluwihare Esquire, PC to be the Chairman 
of the said Commission. 
 And, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to hold all such inquiries and make all other 
investigations, into the aforesaid matters as may appear necessary, and require you to transmit to me within three (03) months 
from the date of this warrant a report thereon under hand, setting out the ﬁ ndings of your inquiries and investigations, and 
your recommendations relating thereto.
 And, I do hereby direct such part of any inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters, as you may in your discretion 
determine, shall not be held in public;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'06'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  06.06.2022
3A
And, I do hereby require and direct all public ofﬁ cers, and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or 
information to render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may be properly rendered and furnished in that 
behalf;
 And, I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissioner of Inquiry Act shall apply 
to the Commission.
 
 Given at Colombo under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 31
stday of May, Two 
Thousand and Twenty Two.
     By  Order of His Excellency,
 GAMINI  SENARATH,  
  Secretary to the President.
EOG 06-0073
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.