

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවා Ǐ  ජනරජ ෙɏ  ගැසŸ  පƴ ය 
අƯ ɪෙශෂ   
අංක 2050/5 - 2017  ෙදසැȼබə මස 18 වැǧ සǿදා  - 2017. 12. 18 
 
No. 2050/5 –  MONDAY, DECEMBER,  2017 
EXTRAORDINARY 
 
North Western Provincial Council 
 
Livestock Statute No. 03 of  2017 of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province 
 
The above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 06th J une 2017 and 
assented by the Governor of North Western Province on 06th December 2017 is hereby published for the  information of 
the public. 
 
 R. M. R. M. RATNAYAKE, 
  Council Secretary, 
   Provincial Council, 
 North Western Province. 
 
Council Office, 
North Western Provincial Council, 
Kurunegala, 
13th December, 2017. 
 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART IV (A)  —  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL 
 
Provincial Council Notification 
IA -  PG 3824 – 12  ( 12/2017 ) 
Livestock Statute No. 03 of  2017 of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province 
 
A statute to Provide for the Implementation of Provincial Livestock Policies towards a  
Sustainable Development in the North Western Province; For the Realization of objectives ; To 
Provide for the Formulation, Implementation and Operation of Plans with Regard to the Preserva-
tion, Taking care and Development of Livestock and Prevention of animal Diseases and for  
Matters connected therewith and Incidental thereto and to provide for the repeal of North Western 
Provincial animal husbandry statute No. 04 of 1998. 
 
This Statute shall be inconsistent as applicable with the Animal Act, No. 29 of 1958 as amended 
by the Act, No. 10 of 1968, the Act, No. 46 of 1988 and the Act, No. 10 of 2009; the Animal Feed 
Act, No. 15 of 1986; the Butchers Ordinance No. 9 of 1893 as amended by the Butchers 
Long Title 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
(Amendment) Act, No.44 of 1947, the Butchers (Amendment) Act, No.02 of 1951, the Butchers 
(Amendment) Act, No.48 of 1953, the Butchers (Amendment) Act, No.31 of 1976 and the  
Butchers (Amendment) Act, No.60 of 1981; the Epidemic Act, No. 33 of 1952; and the Anti  
Rabies Act, No. 23 of 1956. 
 
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows : 
01. This Statute may be cited as the Livestock Statute, No.03 of 2017 of the Provincial Council of 
the North Western Province. 
02. This Statute shall come into operation on such date as may be appointed by the Governor of the 
North Western Province. 
  
03. Objectives of the Statute are as follows: 
  
 (1) To provide for the formulation, planning, implementation, operation and regulation of 
policies relating to livestock in compliance with the national policies and needs of the 
province; 
  
   (2) To provide legal provisions for the preservation, regulation, caring, improving of  
 livestock and production and use of animal feed and medicines and prevention of animal  
 diseases within the North Western Province; 
   
   (3)   To establish the North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health; 
   
   (4)   To establish the North Western Provincial Livestock Development Committee; 
   
   (5)  To empower farmers engaged in the livestock sector in the North Western Province; 
   
   (6) To establish Zonal and Regional Livestock Development Committees and Rural  
 Livestock Development Societies of those engaged in the livestock sector in the North  
 Western Province; 
   
   (7) To ensure the maintenance of environment friendly farms of prescribed standard and 
healthy and qualitative animal production in the province; 
   
   (8) To establish and manage the North Western Provincial Dairy Promotion Fund. 
  
 
Part I 
Policy Planning, Management and Regulation 
 
 
04. The Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject shall be vested with the policy planning on 
animal production, health and development in the North Western Province in compliance with 
the national policy and needs of the province. For the purpose, proposals from the rural,  
regional, zonal and provincial livestock development committees established within the  
province and those of the government, semi -government, co -operative, non -government,  
volunteer organizations and volunteers may be sought. 
  
05. The Provincial Director shall prepare a five year Provincial Livestock Development Plan  
giving due consideration to the proposals of the institutions, organizations or persons referred 
to at section 04 above and submit same for the approval of the Provincial Livestock  
Development Committee once in every 05 years. 
  
Short Title 
Date of  
Operation 
Objectives of the 
Statute 
Policy Planning on 
Animal produc-
tion, Health and 
Development 
Provincial  Live-
stock Develop-
ment Plan 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
06. The Provincial Ministry and the Department in charge of the subject shall  provide livestock 
and health, breeding, extension, training, marketing, promotion and provincial research  
services needed by those engaged in livestock sector within the province. 
  
07. The Animal Development Advisory Divisions and zones shall be determined on the basis of the 
National policy and extension of the population, extent of land, animal population, climatic 
conditions and administrative boundaries within the province and  Regional Veterinary Medical 
Officer’s Division shall be determined on the basis of  administrative boundaries. 
 
 
08. Provincial Research Institutions may be established and maintained for the needs of the live-
stock development field within the province. 
 
09. Human resources development Divisions or Units may be established for the purpose of em-
powering stakeholders with a view to promoting livestock development. 
 
 
Part II 
Establishment, composition, powers and functions of the Provincial Depart-
ment of Animal Production and Health 
 
  
10. There shall be established a Department which shall be called “North Western Provincial 
Department of Animal Production and Health” (herein after referred to as the “Department”) 
to implement the provisions and to achieve objectives of this Statute. 
  
11. The North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health shall, by the 
name assigned to it be a body corporate and shall have a perpetual succession and a common 
seal and may carry out all functions related to the livestock sector and sue and be sued in 
such name and may make submissions with regard to other legal affairs. 
  
12. The First Class Veterinary Medical officer who called as the Director of Animal Production 
and Health Service shall be appointed by the Governor of the North Western Province asking 
the Minister of the subject to implement the statutes wested by the Department according to 
the relevant Service Minute. 
  
13. For the purpose of execution of the duties and functions of the Department, there may be 
appointed Additional Provincial Directors, Subject Specialists, Deputy Directors, District 
Veterinary Medical officers, Veterinary Medical officers, Animal Husbandry Officers,  
Animal Development Instructors, and other ancillary staff. 
  
14. All officers and employees who are in service of the North Western Provincial Department 
of Animal Production and Health on the day of coming into operation of this Statute shall be 
deemed to have appointed under this Statute. 
  
15. (1)   Powers to execute the directions and orders made for the purpose of provisions of this 
Statue and matters incidental thereto shall be vested in the Director subject to the  
general administration of the Secretary. 
  
 (2)   The Director may exercise the powers vested in him by delegating such powers to 
 other  officers of the Department as the case may be. 
 
   (3)   The Director shall account to the Secretary for the management of all physical,  
   financial and human resources including moveable and immovable assets of the  
   Department. 
Provision of Services 
Demarcation  of  Animal 
Development  Advisory 
Divsions,  Regional 
Veternary  Medical 
Officer’s   Divisions 
and  Zones  
Research Institutions to 
 be established and 
  Maintained 
Human Resources        
 Development Units 
 to be Established 
Establishment of the 
 Department 
Department to be a 
 body corporate 
Appointment of the       
 Provincial Director 
Constitution of the             
 Department  
Appointment of the                                                                  
 Staff 
Powers and response-
 bilities of the  
     Provincial Director 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 16. (1)  The Provincial Director or any other officer duly authorized by the Provincial Director 
shall have the powers to enter and inspect any farm or manufacturing plant or sales outlet 
or cold storage at any time for the purpose of execution of provisions under this Statute. 
  
 (2) No person shall obstruct any authorized officer exercising his powers under this Statute 
or regulations made there under. 
  
 (3) The owner or the person in charge of or every person present at the site subjected to  
inspection shall be bound to provide the officer carrying out the inspection under  
subsection (1) of section 16  above with samples or other information as required by the 
officer in carrying out his duties. 
  
 (4) No person shall provide false or misleading samples or information to any officer  
engaged in obtaining samples or information in a formal manner. 
  
17. The Department shall execute following functions for the development, preservation,  
promotion, extension and regularization of livestock within the province: 
  
 (1)  to formulate and implement the annual plan in compliance with five year Plan; 
  
 (2) to ensure health care of animal by control, prevention of and treatment to animal  
diseases; 
 
 (3) to carry out breeding for the maintenance of an environmental friendly animal  
population of high genetic quality which suits the needs of the province; 
  
 (4)   to implement extension and training programmes; 
  
 (5)   to implement production and sales promotional programmes; 
  
 (6)   to conduct provincial researches and surveys and publicize their results; 
  
 (7)    to introduce new technology and farm mechanizations which suit the province; 
  
 (8)   to liaise with research institutes of national, provincial and regional level, universities 
and other institutes related to animal husbandry; 
  
 (9)  to introduce, distribute and sell high quality breeding and plant materials necessary for 
the development of animal farming; 
  
 (10) to register, issue licenses to, supervise and regulate all institutions, organizations and   
persons related to the field of livestock : 
 
     I.  rural societies and regional and zonal livestock development committees ; 
 
    II.  animal farms ; 
  
    III.  animal feed, animal breeding matters, livestock medicine, chemicals,  
   equipment  and manufacturing plants or manufacturers; 
 
   IV.  animal feed, animal breeding matters, livestock medicine, chemicals or  
   equipment distribution institutions or distributors or sales outlets ; 
  
    V.  all livestock product cold stores within the province; 
  
  VI.  institutions which purchase livestock manufactured within the province ; 
Power to inspect 
 farm or manu-
 facturing  Plants 
Duties  and respon-
 sibilities of the 
 Department 

<!-- page 5 -->

5A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
     VII. mobile sellers ; 
  
     VIII. animal caretakers, distributors and sellers ; 
  
     IX. all voluntary organizations and individuals involved in the livestock 
            sector. 
  
   (11) to maintain and update all data bases related to livestock sector; 
  
   (12) to ensure hygiene and quality of animal productions and standardization of farms; 
  
   (13) to maintain laboratories to commensurate with the needs of the province; 
  
   (14)  to prevent and control animal diseases in the province; 
  
   (15) to provide for and regulate the environmental friendly animal farms, manufacturing 
plants, cold storages, sales outlets, in accordance with accepted standards; 
  
   (16)  to control and prevent diseases transmitted from animals to humans; 
  
   (17)  to ensure animal welfare; 
  
   (18)  to grant certificates of identification, health and eligibility with regard to  
 transportation of animals; 
  
   (19)  to inspect accounts of rural societies, regional and zonal livestock development  
 comittees and give necessary advice; 
  
   (20)  to regulate manufacture, storage, sale, and use of animal feed, animal breeding  
 maters, veterinary medicines and chemicals ; 
  
   (21)   to implement veterinary public health services ; 
  
   (22)  to organize provincial exhibitions, functions and competitions in relation to the  
 livestock sector and appreciate those who are engaged in the sector; 
  
18.  (1)   The annual development plan for the coming up year on the development of livestock   
institutions and promotion of animal husbandry within the province, shall be prepared 
by the Director and be submitted for approval of the Secretary before 31 st date of  
October of the current year, based on the Provincial livestock development plan  
prepared in terms of the provisions of  section 05 of this statute. 
  
   (2)   The annual performance report relevant to each calender year shall be prepared by the 
 Director and be submitted to the Secretary prior to 15th date of March of next year. 
  
 
Part III 
Registration of Institutions and individuals 
  
 19. All organizations and persons below mentioned who are engaged in livestock sector in the 
North Western Province, shall obtain a Certificate of Registration issued by the Director 
and the same shall be renewed annually. 
  
   (1)   rural societies and regional and zonal livestock development     committee. 
  
  (2)    animal farms. 
Institutions and  
individuals to register 

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 (3) animal feed, animal breeding matters, veterinary medicines, chemicals, equipment,  
   manufacturing plants or manufacturers. 
  
 (4) animal feed, animal breeding matters, livestock medicine, chemicals  or equipment  
   distribution institutions or distributors, sales outlets or stores. 
  
 (5)  all livestock product cold stores within the province. 
  
 (6)  institutions which purchase livestock manufactured within the province. 
  
 (7)  mobile sellers. 
  
 (8)  animal caretakers, distributors and salesmen. 
  
 (9)  every voluntary organization or individual engaged in the field of livestock. 
  
20. For the purpose of registration under section 19 above, the applicant shall: 
  
 (1)  make the application on the specimen prescribed by the Provincial Director. 
 
 (2)  pay a registration fee as prescribed by the Minister. 
 
 (3) comply with the criteria and standards specified by regulations made under Section 84 (1) of 
   this Statute. 
 
 (4)  fulfill all other legal requirements as required by other institutions in addition to the  
   regulations of this Statute. 
  
21. No person shall transfer or alienate the certificate of registration or alter any information  
   contained therein without the approval of the Provincial Director. 
  
22. If any application for registration made under Section 19 shall not be entertained unless it  
   meets the requirements specified in Section 20, the same shall not be registered and be in  
   formed thereof to the applicant in writing. 
  
23. (1)  When the Director determines that any institution, individual or organization that has been 
     registered under Section 19 of this Statute, acts in contravention of the objectives of the  
     Statute or does not comply with the standards specified by regulations, the registration of 
     such institution, individual or organization may be temporarily suspended. 
  
   (2)  In the event of temporarily suspension of registration, the Director shall inform in writing 
     the reasons lead to such suspension to the holder of the certificate of registration. 
  
   (3)  When the registration is temporarily suspended, if the institution, individual or  
     organization whose registration is so suspended takes actions to make good the reasons  
     lead to such suspension and to meet the stipulated requirements within a reasonable time 
     as determined by the Director, the registration of such institution, individual or volunteer 
     organization shall be reinstated. 
  
24. If the requirements within the stipulated reasonable time as per section 23 (3) of this Statute  
   are failed to be met, the registration shall be cancelled and be informed thereof to the applicant 
   concerned. 
  
25. The party which is in receipt of a notice to the effect that the registration was rejected under  
   Section 22 of this Statute or that the registration was cancelled under Section 24,  may make 
Requirements for the 
registration 
Certificate of 
Registration not to 
Rejection of 
Registration. 
Temporary  
suspension of  
registration 
Cacellation of  
Registration 
Appeals from  
rejection or cancella-
tion of registration 

<!-- page 7 -->

7A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
an appeal there from to the Minister in charge of the subject within 45 days from the receipt of 
such notice. 
  
26. (1) When an appeal is received under Section 25 of this Statute, the Minister shall direct the  
  Secretary to conduct an inquiry and determine thereon. 
  
 (2)The Secretary after conducting an inquiry, shall make recommendations to the Minister to  
  confirm or revise or reject the determination of the Director. 
  
 (3) The Minister shall submit his decision within 45 days from the receipt of the appeal and  
  the decision of the Minister thereon shall be final and conclusive. 
  
27. (1) When a person who has been convicted by Court under section 92  of this Statute for the  
 offence of maintaining a farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet without a  
 license issued under section 19 of this Statute or regulations made thereunder, continues 
 to maintain the farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet, an order may be 
 issued on a request made in that regard from the Magistrate's Court by the Director or 
 any  other person authorized by him, directing such person to close down such farm,  
 cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet until such time the person concerned  
 ob tains a license again. 
  
 (2) In any proceeding under the above section, the certificate issued by the Director or any   
  other officer duly authorized by him shall be prima facie evidence of the content therein to 
  the effect that the person whose name appears on the certificate continues to maintain the   
  farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or the sales outlet without a license. 
   
 (3) Provided however that, in the event of submission of an appeal under Section 25 of this  
  Statute, the closure shall be deferred pending the determination of the appellate inquiry. 
   
 (4)  When the decision of the Director is confirmed under Section 23 (2) of this Statute and at 
   the appellate inquiry, action shall be taken to close down within 30 days from the date of  
   the appellate determination. 
  
28. When the Provincial Director identifies any premises as a threat to the maintenance of animal 
welfare of the province, he shall obtain a temporary closing order in that regard from a  
Magistrate court. 
  
29. (1)  When any person fails to comply with the closing order issued under Section 27(1) of  
 this Statute, the Magistrate shall issue an order requiring and authorizing the fiscal of the 
 court to close down the farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet mentioned 
 in the said order and the fiscal shall execute such order on a date prior to not later than 
 three full days or sooner than seven full days from the date of the order. 
  
 (2) The order shall be sufficient authority for the fiscal or any other police officer authorized  
  by him for the purpose to enter the farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet  
  together with the assistants deemed necessary for the purpose of closing down such farm,  
  cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet.   
 
Part IV 
 
Provincial Livestock Development Committee 
  
30. There shall be established a Provincial Livestock Development Committee to facilitate the 
implementation of the Livestock Statute of the Province. The Provincial Minister in charge of 
the subject of Livestock shall be the Chairman of the Committee and the Secretary to the  
Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of the Livestock shall be the Secretary to the  
Powers to determine 
appeals 
Order to close down on 
rejection or cancellation 
of  registration. 
Closing order under 
special  circumstances 
Closure 
Provincial Livestock 
Development  
Committee. 

<!-- page 8 -->

8 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
Committee. This Committee may function in collaboration with the Provincial Agriculture 
Committee and Provincial Irrigation Committee. 
  
31. (1)   The constitution of the Committee shall be as follows: 
  
 I.  five Council Members nominated by the Advisory Committee to the Provincial Minis-
try in  charge of the subject of Livestock to represent each Veterinary Medical Offi-
cer’s Division; 
 
 II.   District Secretaries of the districts of Kurunegala and Puttlam or their representatives; 
 
 III.  Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police of the North Western Province or his repre-
sentative; 
 
 IV.  North Western Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health; 
 
   V.  North Western Provincial Director of Agriculture; 
 
  VI.  North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation; 
 
 VII.  North Western Provincial Commissioner of Land; 
 
      VIII. North Western Provincial Director of Health Services; 
 
 IX.  North Western Provincial Commissioner of Co‑operative Development; 
 
    X.  Deputy and Assistant Commissioners of Agrarian Services of the districts of  
Kurunegala and Putlam; 
 
   XI.  Director of North western Provincial Environment Authority; 
 
 XII.  a representative nominated by the Director General of the Department of Animal  
Production and Health; 
 
    XIII. District Managers of the Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance  Board; 
 
 XIV. Deputy Directors in charge of zones of the Provincial Department of Animal  
Production; 
 
  XV.   Representatives of State banks; 
 
      XVI.  A provincial representative of the Livestock Development Board; 
 
      XVII.  Chairpersons of Zonal Livestock Development Committees; 
 
     XVIII. Three Heads of Institutes involved in livestock development; 
 
      XIX.  Three representatives of dairy purchasing institutions on order  of purchase. 
   
 (2) The Committee may co -opt the representatives or individuals of organizations and  
   institutions for the deliberations of the Committee as may be determined by the Minister. 
  
32. The members mentioned under I to XVII in subsection 31 (1) of this Statute shall be ex-officio 
members of the Committee and those other members mentioned under XVIII to XIX may be 
appointed by the Minister at his discretion. 
  
The Constitution of 
the Committee 
Appointment of 
members to the 
Provincial Livestock 
Development Com-
mittee 

<!-- page 9 -->

9A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
33. The term of office of the members appointed by the Minister shall be two years. 
  
34. Where a member appointed by the Minister vacates office by expiry of term of office,  
resignation, removal by the Minister at his discretion, absence from three consecutive  
meetings, death or insanity, the Minister shall fill the vacancy so created. 
  
35. The Provincial Committee shall meet at least once in every two months. The Secretary, if 
found necessary, may convene supplementary meetings of the Committee on the direction of 
the Chairman. 
  
36. (1)  The quorum of the Committee shall be ⅓ of the membership. 
  
 (2) The existence of vacancies in the Committee shall not hinder the conduct of meetings of  
   the Committee or the making of decisions at such meetings. 
  
37. The powers and functions of the Provincial Livestock Development Committee shall be :- 
 
  (1)  to submit recommendations and proposals for the formulation of policies pertaining to  
   matters stipulated in this Statute in compliance with the National Policy and needs of  
   the province; 
 
  (2)  to provide necessary advice for the operation and implementation of matters stipulated  
   in the Statute; 
 
  (3)  to approve the five year Livestock Development Plan and other long term and medium 
   term development plans forwarded to the Committee; 
 
  (4) to take follow up actions and to review the formulation and implementation of the  
   Provincial Livestock Development Policy while providing necessary resources,  
   guidance  and assistance for the same; 
 
  (5)  to grant prior approval for any programme or project for the extension and promotion  
   of  and education on livestock, provision of services and for researches on livestock to  
   be implemented within the province by any governmental or non -governmental   
   institution, organization, foundation, society, project, programme or similar institution,  
   individual or group of persons and to take appropriate action when relevant conditions  
   are violated. 
 
  (6) to resolve the issues submitted to the Provincial Livestock Committee. 
  
38. (1)   The Provincial Committee may make procedures for the conduct of business of the   
   meetings of the Committee. 
  
 (2) The members of the Committee participating in the meetings thereof may be  
   remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the Minister and be approved by  
   the Governor. 
 
 
Part V 
 
Rural Livestock Development Societies 
  
39. The farmers engaged in livestock activities in a Grama Niladhari division or any part thereof 
or several divisions may get together and set up Rural Livestock Development Societies for 
each field of animal husbandry or in amalgamation and every such society shall be registered 
with the Department. 
Term of Office of 
appointed members 
Vacation of  
membership and filling 
up of vacancies 
Meetings of the 
Committee 
Quorum of the  
Committee 
Powers and functions 
of the Committee 
Procedures and  
remuneration  for  
participation 
Setting up and  
registration of Rural 
Livestock Development 
Socieies. 

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 40. Rural Livestock Development Society shall, by the name assigned to it be a body corpo-
rate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may carry out all functions  
related to the livestock sector and may sue and be sued in such name. 
  
41. The object of setting up of these societies shall be to develop the livestock sector by  
mobilizing those who are engaged in the livestock sector at rural level and thereby empow-
ering them. 
 
42. Qualifications to be eligible for membership: 
 (1)    to be a citizen of Sri Lanka; 
 (2)    to be not less than 18 years of age; 
 (3)   the farm to be located within the area of authority of the Livestock Development  
   Society; 
 (4)  the farm to have registered with the Department of Animal Productions. 
  
43. Every Rural Livestock Development Society shall appoint an executive committee  
comprising of Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer, Vice -chairman, Co -Secretary and six  
members and the term of office of such office bearers shall be one year from the  
appointment. 
  
  
44.(1) The Director shall prepare the constitution for the Rural Livestock Development  
    Societies which shall be approved by the Minister. 
  
 (2) Every Rural Livestock Development Society shall comply with the constitution. 
  
45. The powers and functions of Rural Livestock Development Societies: 
 
 (1)   to formulate and implement livestock development plan for the area of authority of  
   the society, in compliance with the provincial plan and co -ordinate and regulate the  
     implementation of the said plan; 
 
 (2)   to facilitate and liaise with relevant institutions for the development of farms of  
   members; 
 
 (3)    to resolve issues relating to livestock sector arising within the area of authority of the 
    society; 
 
 (4)  to maintain an updated data base relevant to the sector and disseminate such data to  
    relevant parties when the need arises; 
 
 (5)   to implement loan schemes for members of the society; 
 
 (6)   to implement programmes to enhance the funds of the society; 
 
 (7)   to work for the welfare of members of the society; 
 
 (8) to nominate a member to represent the Regional Livestock development Committee; 
 
 (9)   to implement the insurance scheme; 
 
 (10) to organize programmes to create new farmers. 
  
46. (1)  Meetings of the Society shall be convened once in every month or two months and  
supplementary meetings of the Society may be convened at the request of the majority of 
members. 
  
Rural Livestock  
Development Society 
to be a body corporate 
The Object of Setting 
up of Societies 
Membership 
Constitution and term 
of Office 
Constitution and term 
of Societies 
Powers and functions 
Meeting of the  
Society and the quorm 
of such meeting 

<!-- page 11 -->

11A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 (2)   The quorum of the meetings shall be ⅓ of the membership. 
 47. (1) When a member vacates office by reason of : 
   I.     resignation; 
  II.    absence from three consecutive meetings; 
  III.   death or insanity; 
  IV.  removal at the will of the majority members on grounds of any breach of the  
      Constitution or distancing from the livestock  sector; 
    such member shall cease to be a member. 
  
 (2) When a member ceases to be a member or resigns or is removed at the will of the  
 majority members, the office of such member shall cease. 
  
48.  There shall be paid into the Rural Livestock Development Fund: 
  I.   the membership subscription; 
  II.   donations by the State, Provincial, Non-Governmental organizations; 
  III.  donations by individuals; 
  IV.  interest and dividends of the fund; 
   V.   All money received from other sources. 
  
49. The Accounts of the Fund : 
  
 (1)  The accounts of the Fund of the society shall be maintained in a State Bank and the  
   accounts of fund shall be maintained as provided by the Constitution of the society. 
  
 (2)   The Director or any other officer authorized by him shall examine the accounts of the  
  Fund annually or as appropriate. 
  
50. (1)  The supervision of the affairs of, examination of books of and providing guidance and  
  advice to Rural Livestock Development Societies established within his area of  
  authority shall be vested in the Animal Development Advisor. 
  
 (2)   Any officer duly authorized by the director for the purpose, may supervise and examine  
    the books of Rural Livestock Development Societies. 
  
51. (1)  The Director shall appoint a staff grade public officer as the liquidator to cancel the   
  registration and to liquidate any registered Rural Livestock Development Society on any 
  one or more of the following grounds: 
  
  (I)     the membership declines to less than eleven; 
  (II)    being defunct for a period exceeding one year; 
  (III)   has acted contrary to its objects; 
  (IV)  a number of members not less than two thirds ( ⅔) of the membership making a  
    re quest to the Director citing that the society has failed to act for the achievement  
    of  its objectives. 
 
 (2)     The liquidator appointed under Subsection 51(1) above shall have the following  
 powers, subject to the prior approval of the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in 
 charge of the subject: 
  
 (I)      to determine the priority among the creditors of the society; 
 (II)     to sell properties of the society; 
 (III)    to settle any claims by or against the society; 
 (IV)    to distribute assets of the society as required. 
  
 
Vacation of member-
ship or office 
The fund of the  
Society 
Supervision of  
Societies 
Accounts of the fund 
of the Society 
Cancellation of  
Registration and  
Liquidation. 

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
(3) The Liquidation Notice of the liquidator shall be published in newspapers published in all three 
languages viz Sinhala, Tamil and English. 
  
(4) When a society is liquidated, the fund of the society shall be used for the settlement of  
liquidation expenses in the first instance and thereafter for the settlement of its liabilities. The  
surplus of funds on liquidation shall be credited to the Dairy  Promotion Fund. 
 
 
Part VI 
 
Regional Livestock Development Committee 
  
52. There shall be established a Regional Livestock Development Committee for each Regional 
Veterinary Medical Officer’s Division and be registered with the Department. 
  
 
 
53. (1) The Director shall prepare the Constitution of the Regional Livestock Development  
Committees which shall be approved by the Minister. 
  
  (2)  Every Regional Livestock Development Committee shall act in compliance with the said 
Constitution.    
54. (1)  The Committee shall constitute of the following; 
  (I)       Veterinary Medical Officer; 
  (II)      Public Health Veterinary Medical Officer; 
  (III)     Animal Development Instructors; 
  (IV)    An Agriculture promotion officer nominated by the Secretary to the Provincial  
 Minis  try of Agriculture; 
  (V)      A Public Health Inspector nominated by the Regional Medical Officer of Health; 
  (VI)     An Agriculture advisor nominated by the Provincial Director of Agriculture; 
  (VII)  Agents nominated by the regional livestock development societies; 
  (VIII)  A Coconut Development officer nominated by the regional Manager of the Coconut 
 Development Board; 
    (IX)  An officer involved in the sector nominated by the Divisional Secretary; 
     (X)    An Environmental officer of the relevant Local Authority; 
    (XI)  Regional Agents of dairy purchasing companies within the North Western Province 
 appointed by the Deputy Director in charge of the zones. 
 
 (2) Where an appointed member vacates office, the Deputy Director in charge of the Zones shall, 
on the recommendation of the Veterinary medical Officer, nominate another member to  
represent the relevant field of the member who vacates office. 
  
55. The representatives of governmental, non -governmental and private organizations engaged in 
the livestock sector may obtain the associated membership of the Committee with the approval 
of the Committee and they shall not be entitled to vote at the meetings or to hold any office of 
the Committee. 
  
56. The Chairperson of the Committee shall be elected from among the members of Rural  
Livestock Development Societies and the Veterinary Medical Officer of the Division shall be 
the ex-officio Secretary to the Committee. 
  
57. The term of office of the non ex-officio members shall terminate, when they cease to be  
 members of the society they represent. 
 
58. Meetings of the Committee shall be convened once in every 03 months and the quorum of such 
meeting shall be ⅓ of the membership. 
Establishment and 
registration of  
Regional Livestock 
Development Committees 
Constitution of the 
Committees 
Associated  
Membership 
The Chairperson and 
the Secretary of the 
Committee 
The term of Office of 
Members 
Meetings and quorum 
of the Committee   
The constitution 
of  the 
Committee. 

<!-- page 13 -->

13A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 59. Functions of the Committee shall be as follows: 
  
 (1)    to formulate the Regional Livestock Development Plan based on the Provincial and Rural 
 Livestock Development Plans; 
  
 (2)   to formulate special project proposals in accordance with the regional potentialities and to 
 seek financial provisions for the same while coordinating among other relevant  
 institutions; 
  
 (3)   to provide necessary assistance and guidance to formulate the Rural Livestock  
  Development Plan; 
  
 (4)   to take action on matters referred to the Committee by the Rural Livestock Development 
 Societies; 
  
 (5)   to ensure the efficient and effective utilization of funds received to the Rural Livestock  
 Development Societies for the livestock sector from different financial resources; 
  
 (6) to liaise between Rural Livestock Development Societies and Zonal Livestock  
 Development Committees; 
  
 (7)   to allocate financial provisions received for the livestock sector within the area of  
 authority of the Regional Committee to the beneficiaries; 
  
 (8)  to take action to ensure that the beneficiaries have easy access to the inputs of the live
 stock sector. 
 
 
Part VII 
 
Zonal Livestock Development Committee 
  
60. There shall be established a Zonal Livestock Development Committee for each zone as de
 marcated under Section 7 of this Statute and shall be registered with the Department. 
 
 
  
61. The Director shall prepare the Constitution of the Zonal Livestock Development Committees 
which shall be approved by the Minister. Every Zonal Livestock Development Committee 
shall act in compliance with the said Constitution. 
  
62. The constitution of the Committee shall be as follows: 
 (1)   Deputy Director in charge of the Zone; 
 
 (2)   four Veterinary Medical officers appointed by the Provincial  Director; 
 
 (3)  a representative of the District Secretary; 
  
 (4) an Assistant director of Agriculture nominated by the Provincial Director of Agriculture; 
  
 (5)  District Health Services Director or his representative. 
  
 (6)  a representative of the Provincial Central Environment Authority; 
  
 (7)  four senior animal development advisors appointed by the Provincial Director; 
  
Functions of the  
Committee 
Establishment and 
registration of Zonal 
Live Stock  
Development  
Committees. 
The Constitution of 
Commitees 
The Constitution of the 
Committee 

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 (8)  Public Health Veterinary Medical officer appointed by the Provincial Director; 
  
 (9)   a Livestock Investigation Officer; 
  
 (10) a representative of the Agrarian Insurance Board ; 
  
  (11) representatives of the Livestock Development Board and dairy  purchasing companies 
appointed by the Provincial Director; 
  
 (12) Chairpersons of Regional Livestock Development Committees or their representatives; 
  
63. The representatives of governmental, non -governmental and private organizations engaged in 
the livestock sector may obtain the associated membership of the Committee with the approval 
of the Committee and they shall not be entitled to vote at the meetings or to hold any office of 
the Committee. 
  
64. The Chairperson of the Committee shall be elected from among the Chairpersons of Regional 
Livestock Development Committees and the Deputy Director in charge of the Zones shall be 
the ex-officio Secretary to the Committee. 
  
65. The term of office of a non ex-officio member shall terminate, when he ceases to be a member 
of the Regional Livestock Development Committee. 
  
66. Meetings of the Committee shall be convened once in every 04 months and the quorum of such 
meeting shall be ⅓ of the membership.  The Secretary may convene supplementary meetings of 
the Committee under special circumstances on notice thereof to the Chairperson. 
  
67. Functions of the Committee shall be as follows: 
  
 (1) to actively participate in the formulation and implementation of the Zonal Livestock  
 Development Plan; 
  
 (2)  to liaise with the Provincial Livestock Development Committee: 
  
 (3)  to take action on matters referred to the Committee by the Regional Livestock Development 
 Committees; 
 
 (4)  to submit proposals for the formulation of Provincial Livestock Development Plan; 
  
 (5)  to co-ordinate among Regional Livestock Development Committees; 
  
 (6) To nominate three representatives of the dairy sector to the Management Board of the Dairy 
Development fund. 
 
 
 
Part VIII 
 
Diary Development Fund 
  
68. There shall be established a Fund hereinafter referred to as the Dairy Development Fund. 
  
69. The Fund by the name assigned to it be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession 
and a common seal and may carry out all functions related to the livestock sector and may sue 
and be sued in such name. 
  
Associated Member-
ship 
The Chairperson and 
the Secretary of the 
Committee 
The Term of Office 
Meetings and  
quorum of the  
Committee 
Functions of the 
Committee. 
Dairy Development 
Fund 
Fund to be a body 
Corporate 

<!-- page 15 -->

15A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
70. The Director of the North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health 
shall be responsible for the administration of the Fund. 
  
71. There shall be appointed a Board of Management for the administration, management and 
control of the Dairy Development Fund. 
  
  
72. (1) The Board of Management of the Dairy  Development Fund hereinafter referred to as the 
“Board” shall constitute of the following: 
  
 (I)     Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject; 
  
 (II)    Deputy Chief Secretary nominated by the Chief Secretary of the North Western  
 Provincial Council; 
  
 (III)  the Regional manager of the MILCO Ltd. and two agents of two dairy purchasing  
 private companies; 
  
 (IV)  a specialist  in the field of dairy farming; 
  
  (V)  three representatives engaged in the dairy sector and nominated by the Zonal Livestock 
 Development Committees. 
  
 (2)  The members other than the Deputy Chief Secretary nominated by the Secretary to the 
Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject and Chief Secretary shall be appointed by the 
Minister. 
  
73. (1) The Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject shall be the ex-officio  
   Chairperson of the Board. 
  
  (2)   The Director of the Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health shall be the 
     ex-officio Secretary to the Board. 
   
74. (1) The term of office of a member appointed by the Minister shall be 3 years from the date 
of appointment and the office of such member shall terminate on the cessation of  
membership of the Rural or Zonal Livestock Development Committees. 
  
 (2) The Minister shall have the power to remove any member appointed by him, at any time 
when the Minister is satisfied that such member does not duly execute the duties and  
responsibilities of the office and his holding the office is harmful to the Board. 
  
 (3) The membership of an ex -officio member shall terminate, when he ceases to hold the  
office on which he was appointed to the Board. 
  
 (4)  Any member other than ex -officio members of the Board may resign from office by a 
written request addressed to the Minister. 
  
 (5) The membership of a member shall terminate by reason of his death or insanity. 
  
 (6) The term of office of any member appointed to fill a vacancy created by reason of  
resignation or removal of any member shall be limited to the remaining period of his 
predecessor. 
  
 (7) The Chief Secretary shall take legal action at any time expeditiously, against any financial 
fraud or misappropriation in respect of the fund 
  
Administration of the 
Fund 
Board of  Manage-
ment of the Fund 
Construction of the 
Board of Manage-
ment 
Chairperson and 
Secretary of the 
Board of Manage-
ment 
Appointment, term of 
Office and casseation 
of membership of 
members of the 
Board and Legal 
Action 

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
75. The members and the Secretary of the Board participating in the meetings of the Board may be 
remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the Minister with the approval of the  
Governor. 
  
76. The quorum of the meetings of the Board shall at least be 05 members including the  
Chairperson. 
  
77. (1) The Director of the Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health shall maintain 
a current account in a State bank in favor of the Fund. 
  
 (2)  All monies paid into the Fund shall be deposited to the credit of the account. 
  
 (3) Action shall be taken to deposit the excessive monies determined by the Board of  
Management in a fixed deposit in a State bank. 
  
 78. There shall be paid into Fund: 
  
 (1)   such sums of money out of the Provincial Council Fund as may be allocated in accordance 
with the Livestock Development Plan prepared annually for the purpose of livestock  
development; 
  
 (2)  all sums of money received from public institutions or Local Authorities; 
  
 (3)   the contributions received from companies engaged in purchasing of over 1000 liters of 
milk on a daily basis within the province at a rate of rupees one per every liter of milk so 
purchased; 
  
 (4)  all donations and gifts from local, foreign, non-government and private organizations which 
contribute for the animal development in the province; 
  
 (5)   the interest of the fixed deposit; 
  
 (6)   the insurance premium; 
  
 (7)  the surplus remaining after liquidation of Rural Livestock Development Societies; 
  
 (8) all monies collected as fines by the court on conviction of offences committed in  
contravention  of provisions of this Statute; 
  
 (9)   loan installments and interests; 
  
 (10)  such sums of money received as fees for registration of institutions and farms; 
  
 (11)  all monies received from other sources. 
    
79. The Director of the Department of Animal Production and Health may pay out of the Fund for 
the following purposes, subject to the approval of the Board of Management and in compliance 
with the North Western Provincial Financial Regulations and provisions: 
  
 (1)   for dairy promotional programmes: 
  
 (2)  for providing loans to beneficiaries; 
  
 (3)  for the payment of insurance claims: 
  
 (4)  for establishments and administration expenses. 
Remuneration for 
Participation 
The quorm of the 
Board 
Bank Account of the 
Fund 
Payments into the 
Fund 
Payment out of the 
Fund 

<!-- page 17 -->

17A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
80. The functions of the Fund shall be as follows: 
  
 (1)  to implement dairy promotional programmes; 
 (2)  to implement relief programmes; 
 (3)  to implement insurance programmes; 
 (4)  to implement farmer empowering programmes; 
 (5)  to carry out provincial research activities; 
 (6)  to develop human resource; 
 (7)  to carry out welfare activities of the families who have been registered as permanent 
   members in a dairy society in the North Western province. 
     
81. The accounts of the Fund shall be audited by the Auditor-General. 
 
82. The Minister may make regulations as may be required for the purpose of the discharging 
 the functions of the Fund. 
  
83. (1)  The functions of the Fund shall be attended to by the staffs of the Provincial Ministry 
    in-charge of the subject and the Department of Animal Production and Health,   
    subject to approval of the Board of Management. 
 
 (2)  Where the staff should be paid an additional remuneration, the staff may be  
 remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the Minister subject to approval of 
 the Governor. 
  
 
 
Part IX 
 
General 
  
84. (1)   The Minister shall issue necessary instructions, guidance and orders for the  
 implementation of provisions of the Statute. 
  
 (2)   The Minister shall demarcate the divisions referred to in Section 7 of this Statute and 
 such demarcations shall be published in the Gazette. 
  
 (3)   The Minister shall have the power to impose restrictions as appropriate in transporting 
 animals within and out of the province. 
  
 (4)   The Minister shall have the power to make regulations in respect of prevention and  
 control of animal diseases within the province. 
  
85. (1) Every regulation made by the Minister under this Statute shall be published in the Gazette 
and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such date as may be 
specified in such regulation. 
  
 (2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon as it is convenient after its  
publication in the Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for approval. Any 
regulation which is not so approved by the Provincial Council, shall be deemed to be  
rescinded as from the date of disapproval but without prejudices to anything previously 
made thereunder and a notification to the effect shall be published in the Gazette. 
  
86. (1)  Any person aggrieved by any provision of this Statute or any regulation made under this 
Statute or by any order or decision made by any officer, may prefer an appeal to the  
Minister. 
  
Function of the Fund 
The Staff of the fund 
and remuneration to the 
Staff 
Reglations 
Audit of Accounts of the 
Fund 
Powers of the Minister 
Regulations 
Appeals 

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
 (2)  The Minister may affirm, reject or amend the order or decision against which the appeal 
has been preferred on the recommendation made by an officer or a Board of Inquiry  
appointed by the Secretary by order of the Minister, after an inquiry into the matter. 
  
87. Every party registered under Section 19 of this Statute shall provide accurate information  
relating to the livestock sector on demand to the Director, at any time such information has 
been so requested. 
  
88. Every institute which is registered under Section 19 of this Statute and engaged in purchasing 
milk, meat and eggs produced in the province, shall submit to the Director a monthly report 
indicating the amounts it purchased during the month in the format as may be specified by the 
Provincial Director before the 15th day of the following month. 
  
89. Every institute which is registered under Section 19 of this Statute and purchases more than 
1000 liters of milk a day shall make a contribution of Rupees one for every litter of milk it  
purchases, to the Dairy Promotion Fund. 
  
90. Every government or non -government institution, organization, foundation, forum, project, 
programme or similar institution, person or group of persons shall obtain the approval of the 
Provincial Livestock Development Committee, prior to commencing any project or programme 
for the extension and promotion of livestock, provision of education, services and for the  
conduct of researches on livestock within the province. 
  
91. The Livestock Statute Ordinance, No. 04 of 1998 of the North Western Province is hereby  
repealed. 
  
Part X 
 
Offences and Penalties 
  
92. Every person, establishment or organization who contravenes any provisions of this Statute or 
any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute. 
  
93. Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this Statute, shall on 
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate be punishable with imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding 12 months or to a fine not exceeding rupees hundred thousand or to both such fine 
and imprisonment. 
  
94. (1) Where an offence under this Statute is committed, the Provincial Director or any other  
officer authorized by him shall have the power to institute action. 
  
 (2) The Provincial Director or the officer authorized by him shall take action to recover the 
fines charged by the Courts under Section 92 of this Statute, to the Dairy Promotion Fund. 
 
Part XI 
 
Interpretation 
  
95. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires:- 
  
 “ Province ” means the North Western Province; 
  
 “ Governor ” means the Governor of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province; 
  
 “ Minister ” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of Livestock of the Provincial Council 
of the North Western Province; 
Right to Information 
Monthly report 
Contribution 
Approval for projects 
and proghrmmes to 
be obtained 
Repeal of the Ordi-
nance 
Violation of Provi-
sions or Regulations 
Penalty for Contra-
vention of this Stat-
ute 
Power to Institute 
action and recover 
the fines to the Fund 
Interpretation 

<!-- page 19 -->

19A IV(අ) ෙකʣටස - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2017.12.18 
PART  IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC O F SRI LANKA – 18.12.2017 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
  “ Chief Secretary ” means the Chief Secretary of the Provincial Council of the North Western 
Province; 
  
 “ Provincial Ministry ” means the Ministry in -charge of the subject of Livestock of the  
Provincial Council of the North Western Province; 
  
 “ Secretary ” means the Secretary to the Ministry in-charge of the subject of Livestock of the 
Provincial Council of the North Western Province; 
  
 “ Department ” means the North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and 
Health; 
  
 “ Director ” means the Director of North Western Provincial Department of Animal  
Production and Health; 
  
 “ Provincial livestock research ”  means experiments carried out at the provincial level (other 
than those to form basic theories) to resolve technical and related issues that may arise in the 
process of livestock development at provincial level; to obtain recommendations on  
innovations; and to establish the relevance of recommendations made and technologies  
introduced; 
  
 “ Farm ” means the units where stock such as cattle, buffalos, goats, sheep, swine, hare,  
poultry, quills, ducks and turkey are raised and maintained; 
  
 “ Manufacturing plant ” means a place where food, materials, utensils, medicine related to the 
livestock sector and animal feed are manufactured or value added; 
  
 “ Livestock ” means the stock such as cattle, buffalos, goats, sheep, swine, hare, poultry, 
quills, ducks and turkey; 
  
 “ State bank ” means the Bank of Ceylon, People’s Bank, National Savings Bank and  
Regional Development Bank; 
  
 “ reasonable time” means a period of time, as may be determined as the case may be, by the 
Director in relation to any matter depending on its nature; 
  
 “ Certificate of eligibility ” means the qualifications of the vehicle to be used for the animal 
transportation; 
  
 “ Rural societies ” mean the rural livestock development societies; 
  
  “ Sales outlets” mean the places where food items, objects, tools, medicines, livestock  
products in the field of livestock are sold; 
  
 “ Cold store ” means the place where the livestock products are stored, until consumed. 
 
 
96. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 
 
01– 20 
  
 
  
Sinhala text to Prevail 
in case of inconsistency 