

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1449
1449
wxl 1"620 - 2009 iema;eïn¾ 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'09'18
No. 1,620 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 18, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1452
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1455
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th September, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th
September, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,619 of  11.09.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1450
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1451
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1452
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Posts of Translators (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English),
and (Sinhala/Tamil)
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankans who possess the
qualifications in terms of the advertisement for Post of Translators
(Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil) in the
Department of Official Languages.
02. Educational Qualifications/Alternative Qualifications –
For the Post of Translator (Sinhala/English) :
(a) (i) A degree from a recognized University with Sinhalese
as a subject ;
or
(ii) Should be an Attorney-at-Law ;
or
(iii) Tripitakavedi degree of the Buddha Sravaka
Dharmapeeta ;
or
(iv) Final Examination of the Society of Oriental Studies.
(b) (i) A credit pass for English Language or English
Literature at the G. C. E. (Ord. Level) Examination or
a "B" pass for English Language at the N. C. G. E.
Examination ;
or
(ii) At least an ordinary pass for English Language at the
G. C. E. (Adv. Level) Examination.
For the Post of Translator (Tamil/English) :
(a) (i) A degree from a recognized University with Tamil as
a subject ;
or
(ii) Should be an Attorney-at-Law ;
or
(iii) Should have passed the four year course of "Pulavar"
or "Vidwan" of the University of Madras.
(b) (i) A Credit pass for English Language or English
Literature at the G. C. E. (Ord. Level) Examination or
a "B" pass for English Language at the N. C. G. E.
Examination ;
or
(ii) At least an ordinary pass for English Language at the
G. C. E. (Adv. Level) Examination.
For the Post of Translator (Sinhala/Tamil) :
1. Educational Qualifications/Alternative Qualifications –
For candidates in Sinhala Medium :
(a) (i) A degree from a recognized University with Sinhalese
as a subject ;
or
(ii) Should be an Attorney-at-Law ;
or
(iii) Tripitakavedi degree of the Buddha Sravaka
Dharmapeeta ;
or
(iv) Final Examination of the Society of Oriental Studies.
(b) (i) A Credit pass for Tamil Language and Tamil Literature
at the G . C. E. (Ord. Level) Examination or a "B"
pass for Tamil Language at the N. C. G . E. Examination ;
or
(ii) At least an ordinary pass for Tamil Language at the
G. C. E. (Adv. Level) Examination.
For candidates in Tamil Medium
(a) (i) A degree from a recognized University with Tamil as
a subject ;
or
(ii) Should be an Attorney-at-Law ;
or
(iii) Should have passed the four year course of "Pulavar"
or "Vidwan" of the University of Madras.
(b) (i) A Credit pass for Sinhala Language or Sinhala
Literature at the G. C. E. (Ord. Level) Examination or
a "B" pass for Sinhala Language at the N. C. G. E.
Examination ;
or
(ii) At least an ordinary pass for Sinhala Language at the
G. C. E. (Adv. Level) Examination.
03. Age Limit.– Candidates should not be less than 25 years and
more than 45 years of age, on 31.10.2009. The upper age limit will
not apply to those who are already holding Posts in the Public
Service/Provincial Public Service.
04. Salary Scale.– MN/6-2006/A Rs. 17,680-10x320-11x365-
15x450-Rs. 30,685 per month.
05. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on the
results of a written test on the basis of merit in terms of the Public
Administration No. 15/90.
For Sinhala/English Candidates there will be two question papers
of 03 hours duration containing paragraphs for translation from
Sinhala into English and vice versa in relation to the fields of Science,
Literature, Law, Economics and Accounts.
For Tamil/English Candidates there will be two question papers
of 03 hours duration containing paragraphs for translation from
Tamil into English and vice versa in relation to the fields of Science,
Literature, Law, Economics and Accounts.
For Sinhala/Tamil Candidates there will be two question papers
of 03 hours duration containing paragraphs for translation from
Sinhala into Tamil and vice versa in relation to the fields of Science,
Literature, Law, Economics and Accounts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1453
This examination will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner
of Official Languages.
Candidates will be interviewed by a Panel of interviewers presided
by the Commissioner of Official Languages to peruse their
qualifications and certificates.
06. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This Post is Permanent and Pensionable. Appointees
should contribute to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans’
Pension Fund.
(ii) Appointees will be placed on three years’ Probation. If
they are already confirmed in the Public Sevice, they will
be subject to one years’ acting period.
(iii) Sinhala/English appointees should, before they are
confirmed in the Post, obtain a Credit Pass in Tamil
Language and Literature at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
examination.
(iv) Sinhala/Tamil appointees should, before they are confirmed
in the Post, obtain a Credit pass in English Language or
English Literature at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
examination.
(v) Tamil/English appointees should, before they are confimed
in the Post, obtain a Credit Pass in Sinhala Language and
Literature at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination.
(vi) All officers recruited in accordance with P. A. C. 07/2007
should acquire proficiently in other Official Language
within 5 years from the recruitment in addition to Official
Language they entered the Public Service.
07. Conditions of Service. - Section 10 to 12 of chapter II of the
Establishment Code will apply.
08. Perfected application forms prepared in conformity with
the Specimen given below should be sent on or before 31.10.2009
by registered post addressed to-
Commissioner of Official Languages,
"Bhasha Mandiraya",
Department of Official Languages,
341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
09. The words "Post of Translator-Sinhala/English or Tamil/
English or Sinhala/Tamil" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
10. To Application form should be completed in all respects.
Late applications will be rejected without notice and any complaints
to the effect that the applications or relevant papers being in post
will not be entertained.
11. Officers in the Public/Provincial Public Service should forward
their applications though their Heads of Departments/Institutions.
12. In the event of a false declaration made in the application of
a candidate being detected before he/she is selected, he/she will be
liable to be disqualified and if detected after selection, he/she will be
liable to dismissal.
By order of the secretary, Ministry of Constitutional Affairs
and National Integration.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
"Bhasha Mandiraya",
Department of Official Languages,
341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
D
EPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF TRANSLA TOR (SINHALA/ENGLISH), (TAMIL/
ENGLISH) AND (SINHALA/TAMIL)
No. :–––––––––.
(For office use only)
01. Name in Full : In Sinhala :–––––––––.
In English :–––––––––.
02. Name with Initials : In Sinhala :–––––––––.
In English :–––––––––.
03. Private Address : In Sinhala :–––––––––.
In English :–––––––––.
04. Official Address :–––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :–––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
08. Age as at 31.10.2009 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Whether Male or Female :–––––––––.
10. Citizenship :–––––––––.
11. Medium of Education :–––––––––.
12. The post applied-whether for :–––––––––.
Translator (Sinhala/English)
Translator (Tamil/English)
Translator (Sinhala/Tamil)
13. Educational Qualifications :
Highest exam passed
Institution Name of Subjects Year
examination

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1454
Institution Name of Subjects Year
examination
Degree
University Name of Degree Subjects Year
G. C. E. (A/L)
School Pass Year
G. C. E. (O/L)
School Pass Year
Professional Qualifications
Institution Nature of the Course From …… to
Other Supportive Educational Qualifications :
14. If your are an Attorney-at-Law period of practice Experience
:–––––––.
15. The languages in which the applicant whishes to sit the written
examination :
(i) Sinhala and English :–––––––.
(ii) T amil and English :–––––––.
(iii) Sinhala and Tamil :–––––––.
16. I hereby certify that particulars given in this application are
true and correct. I am aware that I am liable to be dismissed
from service without compensation if any false or inaccurate
information given above is detected after I am selected or to be
disqualified if it is detected prior to selection.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
If the applicant is a Government officer recommendation of the
Head of the Department.
PART ‘A’
Recommendation of Head of Institution in the Public/Provincial
Public Service
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………………
is employed as …………… in this Department/Ministry/Provincial
Council, the particulars given above are correct and his/her work,
attendance and conduct is satisfactory. In case he/she is selected to
this post he/she can be/cannot be released.
–––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/
Authorized Officer.
Name :–––––––.
Post :–––––––.
Address :–––––––.
Date :–––––––.
09-571
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF TECHNICIAN
GRADE III IN THE DISTRICT SECRETARIAT
KALUTARA
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Technician Grade III
at the District Secretariat Kalutara from the resident in the district
who possess the relevant qualifications. Applicants are advised to
prepare the application according to the specimen form of
application given and send them before the 30th of September,
2009. Those who are already employed in the Public Service should
submit their applications through Head of the Department.
1. Job Details.– Electrical and plumbing maintenance work in
the building of District Secretarial Kalutara.
2. Age limit.– Should be greater than 18 year and less than 45
years (This age limit is not applicable for those who are already in
the Public Service).
3. Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed the G . C. E.
O/L Examination in 06 subjects with 02 credits passes.
4. Professional Qualifications.– Should have followed a course
of not less than 3 months including electrical and plumbing
technology in a technical college or a institute recognized by the
government.
5. Salary Scale.– PL 3 Rs. 12,360 - 10 x 110 - 10 x 120 - 10 x 130
- 12 x 140 - Rs. 17,640 (6/2006iv).
6. Conditions of service. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. Selected candidates are bound to work in any area of
the country.
7. Method of recruitment. – A suitable candidate is selected by
structural interview.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1455
8. Method of forwarding applications.– Candidates are required
to prepare their application in accordance with the specimen form
and should forward to the address of District Secretary, District
Secretariat, Kalutara on or before the 30th of September, 2009, by
registered post the title "Technician Grade III" should be written
on the top left corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications delayed and not completed necessary qualifications
are rejected. The decision taken by the district secretary with regard
to the rejection of applications and other facts is final and receiving
or rejecting of application will not be informed.
S. H
APUARACHCHI,
District Secretary (Government Agent),
Kalutara,
Additional Secretary of
the Ministry of Home Affairs.
At District Secretary District Secretariat,
Kalutara.
Specimen Form of Application
POST OF TECHNICIAN – GRADE III
DISTRICT SECRETARIAT – KALUTARA
1. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
Name in full : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
2. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––.
3. Date of Birth :
(i) Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age as at .............. 2009 :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
4. If employed in the public service :
(i) Department/Provincial :––––––––––.
(ii) Post :––––––––––.
5. Residential District :––––––––––.
6. Address :
(i) Residential address :––––––––––.
(ii) Official address :––––––––––.
7. (i) Educational qualifications :––––––––––.
(ii) Professional qualifications :––––––––––.
8. Civil states :––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the information's furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I declare that I have never
been dismissed from the public service or retired on the
inefficiency as a compassion able alternation or treated as having
vacated the post.
––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
IF THE APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE CERTIFICATE OF THE
HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............... is an employee of this
department. In the event of his/her selection for appointment he/
she can/cannot be released from the service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
1. Name :––––––––––.
2. Designation :––––––––––.
3. Department :––––––––––.
4. Official Stamp :––––––––––.
5. Date :––––––––––.
09–722
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND   TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
TO all applicants,
I do hereby inform you that the following marking scheme will be implemented, in terms of the Gazette Notification dated on 10.07.2009,
in regard with the Class I Posts of the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service.
T
ILAK HAPANGAMA,
Secretary to the Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training.
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training,
No. 354/2, Nipunathapiyasa,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1456
THE MARKING SCHEME UTILIZED IN THE INTERVIEWS FOR THE CLASS I POSTS OF
THE SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE
maximum marks 40 merit (Maximum- (Maximum-
seniority (4th notice (maximum marks - 40) marks - 10) marks 10)
of Gazette dated - research texts and Interviews - 10 skill of
10.07.2009) by publication etc :– Language and
5 marks per year - New products language facts, merits,
to 01.01.2006 innovation Leadership and other
- Assignment,  merits Participation
- Patent and Presentation to the
- Admiration letters local and International
Training
Programmes
4.3(i) 4.3(ii) 4.3(iii) Professional qualifications 10 Administrative
(For obtained additional experience 30 Scheduled
qualifications) post of class I
post graduates 10 (appointed by the public
post graduate diploma 07 service commission)
Degrees 05 if service period is 2
certificates, participated to years more (maximum
training courses 05 marks can be given)
Scheduled post of class II
(03 per year)
Other academics
Post of Management and
administrative (HOD)
09–761
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
Recruitment for the Training of Ayurveda Pupil Nurses – 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from those who possess following qualifications for the training of Pupil Nurses under the Department of
Ayurveda.
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting in all four Science/Maths stream subjects under the old
syllabus or in all three Science/Maths subjects in one sitting if under the new syllabus ; and
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in not more than two sittings in 06 subjects with 04 credits, inclusive of
Sinhala/Tamil, Mathematics and Science. Certified Photostat copies of the certificate of above two examinations should be
attached to the application for the confirmation of educational qualifications.
02. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 01.01.2010 ;
(c) Should not be less than 04 feet and 10 inches in height ;
(d) Should be unmarried ;
(e) When applications are forwarded by the children of Traditional Ayurvedic Physicians a certificate from the Ayurvedic
Medical Council together with a certificate from the Grama Niladari should be submitted to establish the fact that the
applicants' Mother/Father is a Traditional Physician.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1457
03. Mode of application :
(a) Applications should be prepared in conformity with the specimen application form appended below, using both sides of
the 13" x 8" sized paper ;
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent under registered cover to the address of the Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda, Navinna, Maharagama on or before 15.10.2009 with the letters marked, “Recruitment for the
Training of Ayurvedic Pupil Nurses” on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the applications. Belated
applications will be rejected and the Department of Ayurveda will not take responsibility for the loss or delays of
applications in post.
Applicants’ signature should be certified by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/Government
Accountants’ Service/Principal of a Government School/ a Justice of Peace/an Attorney-at-Law or by a Government Officer
drawing not less than an initial salary of Rs. 240,360 per year, or a retired person who held above mentioned positions.
04. Mode of Selection and Training Procedure :
(a) The Department of Ayurveda will hold an open written competitive examination to select the eligible from among the
applicants and those who score the highest marks will be called for the interview. For the competitive examination, all the
applicants are required to answer the following one hour question paper which will be prepared according to the syllabus
stated below :
Syllabus : Intelligence Test ;
General Knowledge ;
Subject-related knowledge.
(b) Marks will be given at the interview for those who are called for the interview and selections will be made according to the
marks scored at the competitive examination and the interview. The interview Board will give marks on the following
criteria :–
1. Professional knowledge and experience ;
2. Maximum 30 marks for the children of Traditional Physicians ;
3. Personality.
Selected applicants as Ayurvedic Pupil Nurses will be directed to the Department of Ayurveda to follow a three year
training course in Sinhala medium.
(c) At the time of enrolment for the training, the trainees will be supplied with a set of rules and regulations in the Department
of Ayurveda. They will be subject to these rules as well as other rules which may be imposed from time to time.
(d) Trainees who fail in the prescribed examinations or whose work and conduct are unsatisfactory or those who fail to comply
with the conditions of examinations or leave will be at risk to have terminated their training at any time without compensation.
Trainees will not be entitled to any type of leave during the training and in the event of their absence a proportionate amount
of money will be deducted from their allowance, depending on the number of days absent. However, it is compulsory to
maintain an attendance of 80% in each year to sit for the examination.
(e) Allowances will be paid for trainees as follows, during their training at the Department of Ayruveda :–
1st year monthly Rs. 12,920
2nd year monthly Rs. 13,040
3rd year monthly Rs. 13,160
(f) If any trainee removed himself from the training or left it during the period of training he or she should refund to the
Department the allowances paid to him/her together with the other expenses incurred by the State on the training. For this
purpose the applicant should sign an agreement with two sureties who receive a confirmable income of Rs. 300,000 or over
per annum.
05. Conditions and Agreements on Non-marriage :
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time they make their applications and they should compulsorily remain as
bachelors/spinsters during their three year training period. To prove that they are unmarried, they should attach to the
application a certificate from the Grama Niladari, certified by the Divisional Secretary.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1458
(b) Pupil Nurses are required to sign an Agreement with the Commissioner of Ayurveda at the time of their admission to the
school of nursing, the Department of Ayurveda, to the effect that they will successfully complete the training and serve in
the Department of Ayurveda after the training, till they retire from service. The Commissioner of Ayurveda will determine
the period of this training from time to time.
06. Terms of engagement :
(a) On the results of the final examination which will be conducted after the above training, the Commissioner of Ayurveda will
give appointments on the salary scale relevant to the Post of Nurse Grade III, when the vacancies occur in the posts.
(b) This appointment will be subject to a period of probation for three years and it will be pensionable.
07. Conditions of service and salary scale :
(a) Appointments will be given to existing vacancies in the posts of Nursing Officers Grade III on the salary scale of
Rs. 15,080- 5 x 150 - 9 x 240 - 7 x 240 - 20 x 320 - Rs. 26,420 as mentioned in MT 7-2006 of P . A. Circular 06/2006.
(b) All officers in the Nursing Service are subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, Conditions of the minutes of Ayurvedic Nurses, Transfers as per the policies of the Department of
Ayurveda, Financial and other Regulations and Rules and Orders imposed by the Government from time to time.
R. P. W. G
UNAW ARDANA,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
(SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM)
RECRUITMENT FOR THE TRAINING OF PUPIL NURSES
01. ( a) Last name with initials (In capital letters) :–––––––––.
(b) Full name (In Sinhala) :–––––––––.
02. Postal address (In English) :–––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent address (In Sinhala) :–––––––––.
(ii) District (In English) :–––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
05. (i) Sex : (ii) Civil Status :
Male Married
Female Unmarried
Put (3) in the appropriate cage
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :
Yes
No
Put (3) in the appropriate cage
07. National Identity Card No. :
08. Height :.................. ft.................inches
09. ( a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination (Science/Maths Subjects stream) (Attach copies of marks)
Year :–––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subj ect Grade For office use
1. 3.
2. 4.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1459
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination :
First Sitting
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
1. 7.
2. 8.
39 .
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
Second Sitting
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
1. 7.
2. 8.
39 .
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law ?
Yes
No
If yes give details
12. Certificate of the applicant :
(a) I respectfully state that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge .
(b) I am aware that if this statement made by me is found to be incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismiss
from service if the detection was made after the appointment.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. Attestation of the applicants' Signature :
I do hereby certify that .......................... who forward this application is known to me personally and that he/she place his/her signature
before me on .......................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
With Official Seal.
Date :–––––––––.
Details of Attester :
Full name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
09–679

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1460
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL
PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH  SERVICE  –  2008(2009)
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in Peradeniya on January,
2010. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at 15th October, 2009.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
3. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations 1 and 2 are stated in the service minute.
Accordingly Syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is given in Appendix "A"
and syllabus for the 2nd efficiency Bar Examinations is given in appendix “B”. Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt  or several
attempts.
4. The prescribed subjects for the efficiency bar examinations are given below :–
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar 2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subjects Duration
No. hours No. hours
01 Funding sources 3 01 Part I 3
02 Administration 3 02 Part II 3
03 Dept. Regulations 2 03 Part 03 - Paper I 3
04 Paper I 3 04 Part 03 - Paper II 3
Dept. Regulations 05 Part 03 - Paper III 3
05 Paper II 3 06 Part 03 - Paper IV 3
Special paper* 07 Part 03 - Paper V 3
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 3
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 3
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 3
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 3
12 Part 03 - Paper X 3
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 3
*Only for the Veterinary Research Officers.
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should select either Part 01 or 02 and two question papers from
the above XI Papers in Part 03. Candidate should obtain at least 40 marks for each paper. (Candidate should obtain 40
marks or more for each paper in order to pass Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II.
5. The attention of the Candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“The medium for departmental examinations (including Prmotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the Language in
which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. But the officers who entered the
service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or
the Official Language.
6. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following
papers in Sinhala, Tamil and English. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied by the candidate later :–
1. Funding Sources ;
2. Administration ;
3. Departmental Regulation Paper I ;
4. Departmental Regulation Paper II.
7. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will b e
cancelled.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1461
8. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size paper
using both sides of it. If the candidate wishes to sit for Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II the applications should be submitted separately
for each of them. It should be noted that the cages 01 to 08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the other side of the paper.
The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the specimen form and the inc omplete
application forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep a Photostat copy of the application for
his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared in the notice. The
name of the examination should be written in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala and Tamil Medium.
9. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any of the
rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the Director General,
Department of Animal Product and Health, Peradeniya on or before 19.10.2009. The applications received after the closing date w ill be
rejected.
11. The candidate who have not received the admission card should contact the Department of Animal Production and Health with
the photostat copy of the application and those who reside outside Colombo should contact giving the Fax No. with the request.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above paragraph 11 will
not be considered.
13. The attention of all the candidates is invited to Circular No. 274 dated 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of identity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity at the Examination Hall. Only
the National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted for the examinations
conducted by the Department of Examinations in order to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall.
14. The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant value and cancel them by placing their signature.
(a) No. fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this examination for the first time.
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 100 0
Single subject Rs. 50 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above.
S
UNIMAL SENARATHNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development.
Ministry of Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
24th August, 2009.
Specimen Application Form
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE – 2008
The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Two applications should be sent for Efficiency
Bar Examinations I and II if the candidate wishes to sit for them at the same time.
Language medium of examination Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Give the relevant number in the box)
Examination applied by the candidate
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2 (Give the relevant number in the box)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1462
01. ( a) Last name with initials :––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
02. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation :––––––––––.
Name of Department :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) :––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph 04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
I Subject No. Subject ..................................
II Subject No. Subject ..................................
III Subject No. Subject ..................................
IV Subject No. Subject ..................................
V Subject No. Subject ..................................
07. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination previously :––––––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :––––––––––.
08. NIC No. :––––––––––.
09. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination previously :––––––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated in the
paragraph 08.
I also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before the cancellation by me.
10. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Cage for stamps :
–––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General Department of Animal Production and Health
Forwarded :
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in paragraph 08.
I also certify that the stamps have been duly affixed and cancelled by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted fee not be pay)
Annexure "A"
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the
following subjects :
1. Financial Regulations,
2. Administration,
3. Departmental Regulations - I,
4. Departmental Regulations - II

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1463
1. Financial Regulations :
The Examination in Financial Regulations will be based on the following :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X) ;
(b) Estimates of the current year. e. g.– preparations of them funding scores Appropriation Act ;
(c) Kacheries Accounts.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
2. Administration :
The Examination in administration will be based on the following :
(a) Office and Field Organizational methods ;
(b) The Establishment Code (Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII)
Note.– A candidate of should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
3. Departmental Regulations - I :
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on the followings :
A two hours paper on the following subjects ;
The ordinance for contagious Animal Diseases, Animal Act, Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon's Services.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
4. Departmental Regulations – II :
A Three hours paper on the following subjects :
1. Dissemination of specimens, Laboratory identification including post - mortem examination. Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for
contagious and infectious disease, sera logical test.
2. Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of
chicks by incubation, animal nutrition food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock
Management.
3. Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, separation of cream and processing of
butter, ghee and curd.
4. Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the marks for a pass.
Annexure "B"
(a) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the
following subjects :
Part I - Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 The syllabus can be obta ined
from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all the Provincial
Directors' offices of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part II - Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 The
syllabus can be obtained from the Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors'
offices of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part III - Paper I - Epidemiology
Paper II - Livestock Economics
Paper III - Veterinary Public Health
Paper IV - Agriculture Extension
Paper V - Genetics and Breeding
Paper VI - Animal Physiology and Reproduction
Paper VII - Housing for Animals and Management
Paper VIII - Animal Nutrition
Paper IX - Pasture and Fodder
Paper X - Applied Vet. Microbiology and Immunology
Paper XI - Applied Medicine, Pathology and Parasitology.
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and
all Provincial Directors' offices of Department of Animal Production and Health.
09–472

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1464
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN CLASS  I  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT
TRANSLATORS'  SERVICE  –  2009
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Translators' Service, as provided for in paragraph 08 of the Translators' Service
Minute published in the Government Gazette Extraordinary No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in the month of December, 2009. Candidates may appear for the examination either in Sinhala, Tamil or English
mediums. The language medium of examination applied initially will not be allowed to change.
02. The specimen form of application for this examination is published at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared correctly and legibly and the officers should send their applications through the respective Heads of Departments by r egistered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, Organizations and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 19th October, 2009. The name of the examination should be indicated on the top left-hand
corner of the envelope in which the application is sent to the Commissioner General of Examinations. Applications received after the closing
date will be rejected.
03. (i) The application should be prepared on a paper 8"x12" size, using both sides of the paper in such a manner that items
No. 1.0 to 2.10 appear on the first page and the remaining numbers in the second page. Although application form could
be typewritten, it should be filled by the candidate's own handwriting. Applications that are not complete in every
aspect and that do not comply with the specimen will be rejected without any notice. It would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form at the candidate's possession.
(ii) For the purposes of Official Languages Policy, all the officers should prepare and fill their application forms in the
official language. The name of the examination appearing in the heading of the application form should be indicated in
English as well in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala medium applications and Tamil in Tamil medium applications.
04. Syllabuses and Scheme of Examination.
1st Subject - Paper 01
Translation of –
(i) A passage of general interest ; and
(ii) Extracts from –
(a) an official document or report ; and
(b) a newspaper article or report in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate's
medium of translation.
(i) From Sinhala into Tamil
(ii) From Sinhala into English
(iii) From Tamil into English
Duration - 03 Hours
Marks - 100
2nd Subject - Paper 02
Translation of –
(i) A passage of general interest ; and
(ii) Extracts from –
(a) an official document or report ; and
(b) a newspaper article or report in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate's
medium of translation.
(i) From Tamil into Sinhala
(ii) From English into Sinhala
(iii) From English into Tamil
Duration - 03 Hours
Marks - 100
Candidates should obtain 40% or above of the total marks for each paper to pass the examination.
05. Candidate's handwritting will be taken into consideration.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1465
06. Examination Fees.– Examination fees will be levied in respect of candidates for this examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied in respect of candidates appearing for the first time.
(b) Fees for appearing on a subsequent occasion will be Rs. 175 for the full examination and Rs. 90 for a single subject.
(c) The examination fee could be paid at any post office in the Island to be credited to the revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13
of the Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the relevant cage of the
application form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidate.
(d) The examination fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination under any circumstances.
07. Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all applicants whose applications have been
received. Candidates must get their signatures in the admission cards attested in advance and produce the admission cards
to the supervisor of the examination center, when presenting themselves for the examination. Candidates without such
admission cards will not be permitted either to enter the examination hall or sit the examination. A notification will be
published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates.
If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following
in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and the
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration by Head of Department and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission cards should be sent.
(ii) Each candidate will be issued a timetable along with the admission card.
(iii) Candidates are bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
conduct of the Examination. They will be liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the breach of these rules.
(iv) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the beginning of this Gazette.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination should not be considered as an acceptance of requisite
qualifications of a candidate to complete at the examination.
08. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, to present themselves at the examination. Travelling expenses are not payable.
09. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registrations of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any one of the above mentioned documents in addition to his admission
card is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter, which has not been provided
for in this notification.
B. P. P . S. A
BEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
01st September, 2009.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1466
(For office use only)
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF THE GOVERNMENT
TRANSLATORS' SERVICE – 2009
(N. B.– This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the candidates own handwriting.)
1.0 Medium of Translations of candidate as per Para 04 of the Gazette Notification :
Paper 01 : From Sinhala into Tamil - 1
From Sinhala into English - 2
From Tamil into English - 3 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Paper 02 : From Tamil into Sinhala - 4
From English into SInhala - 5
From English into Tamil - 6 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
* Candidates may appear for either paper 01, paper 02 or both the papers.
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block capitals :–––––––––.
Eg:- SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Names denoted by initials in English block capitals :–––––––––.
2.3 Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.4 Name of Ministry/Department/Office :–––––––––.
2.5 Office Address (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(The admission card will be sent to this address)
2.6 Sex : (Female - 1, Male - 0) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Date of Birth :
Day Month Y ear
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Present Post :–––––––––.
2.10 Number of the letter of Appointment :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you appearing for this examination for the first time ? :–––––––––.
3.2 If not, number of the affixed cash receipt received by paying the examination fee :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
Issued Post Office :–––––––––.
The cash receipt, for payment of Rs. 90 for one subject and Rs. 175
for whole examination, should be affixed here (Please keep a photocopy of the cash receipt)
4.0 Certificate of Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium stated above and
that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'09'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.09.2009
1467
5.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that,
(i) This candidate is employed in this department as a Translator in Class I of the Translators' Service ;
(ii) The particulars furnished above are correct ;
(iii) His/her work and co nduct have been satisfactory throughout and he/she has not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning) during the 5 years preceding ; and
(iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination ;
(v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed (delete if inapplicable).
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
09–719
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.