

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
471
471
wxl 1"750 - 2012 ud¾;= 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'03'16
No. 1,750 – FRIDAY , MARCH 16, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 473
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 23rd March, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
March, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,749 of 09.03.2012 was not published.
N.B.— (i) Pandu Bandaranaike Hela Jana Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 20th January, 2012.
(ii) Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana Padanama (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 17th February, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
472
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
473
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  – UNIVERSITY  OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2012/2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to a new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I)  :
(i) Marine Engineering Technology
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology
(b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology
(iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Technology
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology
(vi) Polymer Technology
(vii) T extile and Clothing Technology.
Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2011.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2011 will
be given preference for admission to the Marine
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and
Technology Courses. A special medical test and
interview would also be conducted for selection of
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies
Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open
University of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute
under the Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible
to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the
following subjects :
(i) Physics
(ii) Chemistry
(iii) Combined Mathematics
(iv) Advanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G . C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2009
or 2010 or 2011.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G .C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in the
order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 60%
district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the
field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application Form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked "NDT Admission
2012/2013"  on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the "Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa."
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) A 
self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should be
sent along with the application form. However,
the content of the application has to be certified as

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
474
indicated. (See cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The preference must be indicated if candidate
applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This should
be completed only by the candidates who are
applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on "7" for the least preferred.
(v) Applicants are advised to take extreme care in
indicating their order of preference for Fields as
the selection for different fields is done strictly
according to the preferences they have indicated in
the application.
5. (i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2
is Rs. 300 and SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of
payment in favour of "Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon,
Katubedda Branch" to the value of Rs. 300 (Rupees
Three Hundred) for one set of fields of study (Rs. 500 if
applying for both sets of fields), obtained only from any
branch of the Bank of Ceylon should accompany each
application. This application fee is non-refundable.
(ii) Closing Date.–  The closing date of applications is
10.04.2012.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G. C. E. (A.L) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of the
course.
(ii) A student who has already registered in this university or
any other university in Sri Lanka (except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
is not be eligible for applying.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
28th February, 2012.
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO THE NATIONAL
DIPLOMA IN TECHNOLOGY COURSE
I
NSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF MORATUWA  – ACADEMIC
YEAR 2012/2013
For office use only
Application No.
District
Application for (Please   9  )
(i) Maritime Fields - SET 1
(ii) Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or
both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
01. Personal Details : (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr./Ms. S e x Male/Female
Age (Years)       (Months) Date of Birth
As at 31st Date Month Year
Dec. 2011
National ID
Number

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
475
02. Contact Details :
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
03. Results of G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score . .               .
Medium Sinhala/Tamil/English
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2009 or 2010 or 2011)
04. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13
Y ear Name & District Period of
Address of Attendance
 School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
05.Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the Results under No. 03 and
Details under No. 04 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice
of Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage No.3 and cage No. 4 are true and accurate according
to the Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
 Official Seal
....................... .....................
Signature Date
06. Field Preference :
Set 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
Set 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for
the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’ for
the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Electronic and Telecomm-
both sets – 9 unication Engineering
Technology
SET 1 Mech anical Engineering
Technology
SET 2 Polymer Technology
Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
APPLICANT'S  DECLARATION :
(1) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Education.
Yes N o

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
476
The syllabus and other provisions contained in that Gazette are
set out below for the convenience of the applicant. (As the
provisions of Section D of paragraph 27 of the constitute of the Sri
Lanka Principals Service, according to which officers over the age
of 45 years can be exempted from Efficiency Bar Examination -
have been abolished by Public Administration Circular No.
20/2001 of 12.09.2001 all officers of the Principals Service should
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations.)
(a) Scheme of the Examination : Subjects of the Efficiency Bar
Examination are given below :
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the Establishment Code :
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions –
time 01 hour, 50 marks.
Part 2 : Structured question paper –
time 01 hour, 50 marks.
Subject No. 02 : Financial management in Schools.
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions -
time 01 hour, 50 marks.
Part 2 : Structured question paper –
time 01 hour, 50 marks.
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration and
Supervision.
Part 1 : 50 multiple choice questions -
time 01 hour, 50 marks.
Part 2 : Structured question paper –
time 01 hour, 50 marks.
Policies of the Ministry of Education .– The Organization and
functions of Departments and institutions of the Ministry of
Education including Provincial Departments of Education. School
Administration, relationship between the School and Society, School
Supervision and the evaluation of the performance of teachers,
Education planning at National, Regional and School level.
03. A minimum of 40% of the marks or more should be scored in
each of the subject offered by a candidate to pass the examination.
04. Language medium for the examination Sinhala/Tamil/English
(No change will be permitted from the language applied).
05. If it is revealed that a candidate is sitting the examination in
a language for which he is not entitled his candidature can be declared
invalid.
06. The application should be prepared according to the format
given below, with Sections 1-6 appearing in the first page and the
balance in the next page. The relevant particulars should be entered
clearly in the candidates own handwriting please note that
applications which do not conform to the model format given and
which are incomplete will be rejected without notice. It would be
helpful to retain a photocopy of the application. Further, the
candidate should insure that the application submitted conforms to
the model format provided in the Examination Notice. Please note
that if it does not conform, it will be rejected.
(2) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
(3) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
(4) I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda,
Branch”.
(5) I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
(6) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
03-616
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in class 1, 2-I, 2-II
and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals Service - 2012
IT is hereby informed that the Efficiency Bar Examination for
Officers in Class 1, 2-I, 2-II and 3 in the Sri Lanka Principals
Service will be held in June, 2012 in Colombo.
02. The syllabus and other provisions related to this examination
were published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,086/26 of 02.07.1999.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
477
It is also informed that when preparing the application in Sinhala,
the title of the examination should be given in English in addition to
the title in Sinhala. In application made in Tamil, in addition to the
title in Tamil the title should also be given in English.
07. While the Examination will be conducted by the
commissioner general of Examinations, candidates are bound to
adhere to the rules and regulations he has formulated to conduct the
examination. The relevant rules and regulations are given at the end
of this notice.
08. Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before the 16th April,
2012 through the Principal/ Divisional Director of Education/Zonal
Director of Education or the Additional Provincial Director of
Education/Provincial Director of Education or the Head of your
service. Applications received after this date will be rejected.
09. Immediately after Admission Cards are issued to candidates
a press notice to this effect will be published by the Department of
Examinations. If Admission Cards are not received 2 or 3 days after
the notice is published , this should be brought to the notice of the
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations in the manner set out in the
notice. When informing the Department, it would be helpful to
forward certified copies of the application and the receipt for the
payment and the receipt for Registration of the Application letter
and if residing in an area beyond Colombo, a fax number for the
Admission card to be sent. The issue of an Admission card to a
candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance that qualifications
to tkae up the Examination have been satisfied :
(i) Name of the Examination :
(ii) Full name of the candidate :
(iii) Address of the candidate :
(iv) The date the application was posted, registration number
and the post office :
(v) Those residing close by are advised to inform the
Commissioner General of Examination through a
messenger :
10. Complaints (subsequently forwarded) by candidates who
do not satisfy the requirements set out in 08 above, will not be
considered.
11. It is the responsibility of candidates to establish their
identify. The following only will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) National Identify card issued by the Department for
the Registration of persons.
(ii) Valid passport.
12. Examination fees :
(a) Fees charged for this Examination will for - no reason
whatever be refunded nor will it be permitted to be
transferred for another Examination.
(b) No fee will be charged for the first attempt either for
the whole examination or for a part thereof.
(c) charged levied thereafter for each attempt are given
below :
For the full examination Rs. 400
For one subject Rs. 200
The full fee of Rs. 400 or the subject fee of Rs. 200 can be paid
at any District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat in the Island to
the credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations and the receipt should be firmly affixed at the
proper place in the Application. It would be helpful to retain a
photocopy of the receipt.
13. The candidates are subject to the rules and regulations enacted
by the Commissioner General of Examination for the conducting of
the Examination. It is notified that in case these rules and regulations
are violated, the candidate will have to bear any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations :
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Pelawatte,
16th March, 2012.
APPLICATION FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF EXAMINATION, SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 1, 2-I, 2-II AND 3
OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE – 2012
(Please forward by Registered Post to the Commissioner General
of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla through the Principal/Divisional/Zonal Director of
Education/Additional Provincial Director of Education/Provincial
Director of Education).
Language Medium for the Examination
(Enter the relevant Number in the Cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. ( a) Name with initials with initials at the end. (With initials in
English capital letters) (Eg. : SILV A, H. A.) :–––––––––.
(b) Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'03'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2012
478
03. (i) Class/Grade in the Principals Service :–––––––––.
(ii) School/Office :–––––––––.
(iii)Provincial Department of Examinations/Zonal Education
Office :–––––––––.
04. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––.
(iii) Address to which the admission Card should be sent
:–––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
05. National Identity Card Number :
06. Subject applied for, with the subject Number given in paragraph
02(a) of the Gazette Notice :
Subject No. 01 : Provision of the Enter the
Establishment Code subject in
Subject No. 02 : Financial Management number/
Schools numbers
Subject No. 03 : Education Administration in the
and Supervision cage/cages
07. State whether you have appeared for this Examination
previously, either in full or in parts. If so state the Subject -
Subject Number, Year and the medium :
Subject Subject No. Y ear Medium
08. Particulars of the Receipt obtained for Examination Fees :
Receipt No. :–––––––––.
Divisional/District office :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
Affix Receipt here
I hereby declare the particulars provided above are correct.
Further, I agree to comply with the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the
conduct of the Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination
I certify that the candidate whose particulars are given above is
an officer in my School/office. I also certify that he has affixed the
receipt for Examination Fee.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Principal/Divisional or Zonal
Director of Education/Additional
Director of Education/Provincial
Director of Education.
(If a Principal, please give name of the school).
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(Delete inapplicable words.)
03–571
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.