

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2394$67 - 2024 cQ,s ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'07'26
No. 2394/67 -  friday,   July  26,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6793- 364 (07/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.-B. 3/2021(III)
ThE COLOmBO  PORT  CITY  ECONOmIC  COmmISSION  ACT, No. 11 Of 2021
rEGulaTiONS made by the Minister of investment Promotion, in consultation with the Colombo Port City Economic 
Commission and with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Sri lanka, under section 71 of the Colombo Port City Economic 
Commission act, No. 11 of 2021, read with section 45 of the aforesaid act.
 Ranil Wickremesinghe,
 Minister of investment Promotion.
Colombo,
26th of July, 2024.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Colombo Port City (Offshore Banking- Preliminary) Regulations, 
No. 04 of  2024.
2. These regulations shall apply in relation to offshore banking business of an authorised person carried out 
in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City under the act.
3. (1) Any company specified in sub-regulation (2) may make an application to the Commission for a licence to engage 
in offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City in such form and manner as is 
specified in the Regulations for registration, licensing, authorisation and other approvals of authorised Persons No. 01 of 
2022 and the Colombo Port City (Registration of Offshore Companies) Regulations No. 1 of 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2024
2a
(2)  a company referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows: -
(a) a company incorporated in Sri lanka and licensed under the Banking act as a licensed commercial bank 
and willing to engage in offshore banking business through Colombo Port City Branch in and from the 
area of authority of the Colombo Port City;
(b) a company incorporated outside Sri Lanka and registered in Sri Lanka as an offshore company under the 
provisions of Companies act, No. 07 of 2007 and, licensed under the Banking act as a licensed commercial 
bank and willing to engage in offshore banking business through Colombo Port City Branch in and from 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City; or
(c) a company incorporated outside Sri Lanka and registered in Sri Lanka as an offshore company under the 
provisions of Companies act, No. 07 of 2007 and, licensed to engage in banking business under any law, 
charter, statute, article, of association or other instrument constituting or defining such constitution in 
another country but not licensed under the Banking Act, and willing to engage in offshore banking business 
through Colombo Port City Branch in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City.
4. a company referred to in regulation 3 shall satisfy the following requirements in order to obtain a licence to engage 
in offshore banking business through Colombo Port City Branch in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City: -
(a) in the case of a company referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, such company shall provide an assigned 
capital of uSd 15 million or its equivalent amount in any designated foreign currency, to its Colombo Port City 
Branch to be established within the area of authority of Colombo Port City;
 
 and
(b) in the case of a company referred to in paragraph (b) or (c) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, such company 
shall submit to the Commission-
(i) a certificate from the Regulatory Authority of the country in which the company is incorporated, confirming 
that it has granted permission to such company to establish a Colombo Port City Branch within the area 
of authority of the Colombo Port City; and
(ii) a written undertaking approved by its board of directors to the effect that it will provide the funds as may 
be required to settle all obligations and liabilities incurred by the Colombo Port City Branch in carrying 
out offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City.
5. after considering an application received under regulation 3, the Commission shall, subject to the provisions of 
section 42 of the act, recommend to the Minister assigned the subject of finance, to proceed to issue a licence for such 
applicant to engage in offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City, and the Minister 
assigned the subject of finance may, with the concurrence of the Central Bank of Sri lanka, issue a licence to such applicant 
to engage in offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City, subject to such terms 
and conditions as may be specified therein.
6. (1) upon the issue of a licence as set out in regulation 5 –
(a) where such applicant is a company referred to in paragraph (a) of sub- regulation (2) of regulation 
3, such company may engage in offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the 
Colombo Port City through a Colombo Port City Branch;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2024
3a
(b) where such applicant is a company referred to in paragraph (b) of sub- regulation (2) of regulation 
3, such company may engage in offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the 
Colombo Port City through a Colombo Port City Branch of the Head Office of such licensed commercial 
bank; and
(c) where such applicant is a company referred to in sub-regulation (2)(c) of regulation 3, such company 
may engage in offshore banking business in and from the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City 
through a Colombo Port City Branch as mandated by regulatory authority of the country in which 
such company has been incorporated,
subject to the terms and conditions as may be specified in such licence, and subject to the provisions of these regulations.
(2) The Colombo Port City Branch in respect of which a licence to engage in offshore banking business in and from 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City is issued as referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be known as the “Colombo 
Port City Branch” of the respective bank.
7. A company referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 shall maintain the assigned capital specified in regulation 
4(a) at all times on an unimpaired basis.
8. The assets, liabilities and transactions of the Colombo Port City Branch shall be ringfenced and, conducted on an 
arm’s length basis vis a vis the operations of any licensed commercial bank in Sri lanka outside the area of authority of 
the Colombo Port City, and the conversion of an account holder’s funds into Sri lanka rupees is limited to the voluntary 
action by such account holder and the conversion of Sri lanka rupee into designated foreign currency by a Colombo Port 
City Branch on behalf of an account holder shall not be permitted.
9. Where an account holder of the Colombo Port City Branch-
(a) is engaged in the business of export of goods sourced from Sri Lanka and files the customs declaration 
to that effect in accordance with the provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) in respect of 
the goods so to be exported; and
(b) is a local supplier within the meaning of the repatriation of Export Proceeds into Sri lanka rules who 
is eligible to receive payments in foreign currency under such rules,
such account holder shall be subject to the conversion requirements of the said repatriation of Export Proceeds into 
Sri lanka rules.
10. (1) The Colombo Port City Branch may engage in following banking business, subject to compliance with such 
terms and conditions or guidelines, as may be specified from time to time by the Commission, and by the Central Bank of 
Sri lanka under the Banking act from time to time: -
(a) accept savings, time and demand deposits from any authorised person or a non-resident in any 
designated foreign currency;
(b) borrow any sum in a designated foreign currency from any non-resident;
(c) extend accommodation to any non-resident in any designated foreign currency;
(d) engage in any transaction in any designated foreign currency with any other offshore unit;
(e) engage in any other transaction in a designated foreign currency with a non- resident;
(f) engage in any other transaction as may be envisaged under the act; or

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2024
4a
(g) engage in any other transaction in any designated foreign currency, authorised by the Commission with 
the concurrence of the Central Bank of Sri lanka.
(2) The Colombo Port City Branch shall not engage in any of the banking business specified in sub-regulation (1) 
as retail transactions.
(3) for the purpose of this sub-regulation, “retail transactions” shall be transactions of any authorised person 
or non-resident with the Colombo Port City Branch, having an aggregate deposit balance, or loans and 
advances, as the case may be, not exceeding five hundred thousand United States Dollars or its equivalent 
in any designated foreign currency.
11. The Colombo Port City Branch shall, at all times-
(a) maintain an assigned capital of uSd 15 million or its equivalent in any designated foreign currency;
(b) adhere to capital adequacy requirements as set out under the regulatory requirements issued by the 
Home Country regulatory authority applicable to its Parent Entity relating to Colombo Port City 
Branch, subject to meeting the minimum capital set out under these regulations, unless the Commission 
requires otherwise; and
(c) ensure that at all times funds shall be raised for its operations from Non- Residents as defined in the 
act.
12. The Colombo Port City Branch shall maintain liquidity Coverage ratio (lCr) and Net Stable funding ratio 
(NSfr) on a ring-fenced basis as per the overall regulatory requirements applicable to the Parent Entity relating to Colombo 
Port City Branch.
13. A minimum leverage ratio as defined under the Basel Framework shall be maintained by the Parent Entity for the 
Colombo Port City Branch subject to the regulatory requirements applicable to its Parent Entity issued by the Home Country 
regulatory authority, unless the Commission requires otherwise.
14. (1) a prior written approval of the director of Bank Supervision shall be obtained for every appointment to the 
office of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Risk Officer or any other Officer performing senior management functions 
of the Colombo Port City Branch, and the director of Bank Supervision shall grant such approval in consultation with the 
Commission.
 
(2) in granting approval for such appointments, the director of Bank Supervision shall determine whether such 
persons are fit and proper to hold such respective offices.
(3) In determining the fitness and propriety of persons specified in sub-regulation (2), the criteria specified in subsection 
(2) of section 42 of the Banking act shall, mutatis mutandis apply for such appointments, as if such criteria are applicable 
for the appointments of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer or any other Officer performing senior management 
functions of licensed banks in Sri lanka, operating outside the area of authority of the Colombo Port City.
15. The deposits of the Colombo Port City Branch shall not be covered under the Sri lanka deposit insurance Scheme.
16. (1)  The director of Bank Supervision may, with notice to the Commission, require the Colombo Port City Branch 
to furnish such information as are related to its operations within the Colombo Port City in such manner and form, as may 
be specified by the Director of Bank Supervision.
(2) The Colombo Port City Branch shall maintain its books of accounts, records and documents in a designated 
foreign currency, as may be declared at the time of making an application for a licence to engage in offshore banking 
business under regulation 3 or as may be subsequently approved by the Central Bank of Sri lanka.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2024
5a
PriNTEd a T THE dEP ar TMENT Of GOVErNMENT PriNTiNG,  Sri laNKa.
17. in these regulations-
“act” means the Colombo Port City Economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021;
“assigned capital” means the amount of capital in united States dollars or in equivalent designated foreign 
currency assigned to the Colombo Port City Branch by the head office of any company referred to in sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 3;
“Banking act” means the Banking act, No. 30 of 1988;
“branch” means a location other than the main office or Head Office of a company where a business is conducted;
“Central Bank of Sri lanka” means the Central Bank of Sri lanka established under the Central Bank of Sri 
lanka act, No. 16 of 2023;
“Colombo Port City (Registration of Offshore Companies) Regulations No. 1 of 2022” means the Colombo Port 
City (Registration of Offshore Companies) Regulations No. 1 of 2022 published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No. 2306/54 of November 17, 2022;
“Colombo Port City Branch” means a branch of a company licensed to engaged in offshore banking business in 
or from the area of authority of the Colombo Poty City in terms of section 42 of the act;
“Commission” means the Colombo Port City Economic Commission established under the act;
“designated foreign currency” means a foreign currency determined as “designated foreign currency” by the 
Central Bank, under the Banking act, No. 30 of 1988;
“director of Bank Supervision” shall have the same meaning assigned to such term under the Bankingact, No. 
30 of 1988 (as amended);
“financial institutions” shall have the same meaning as set out in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023;
“financial intelligence unit of Sri lanka” shall have the same meaning as set out in the financial Transactions 
reporting act, No. 6 of 2006;
“Home Country regulatory authority” means the Banking Sector regulatory authority of the country in which 
the Parent Entity of the Colombo Port City Branch of the respective bank has been established;
“offshore banking business” shall have the same meaning as in the Act;
“Parent Entity” means the entity which holds the banking licence that makes it eligible for the Colombo Port City 
Branch to be issued a licence to engage in offshore banking business under the Act;
“regulations for registration, licensing, authorisation and other approvals of authorised Persons No. 01 of 
2022” means regulations for registration, licensing, authorisation and other approvals of authorised 
Persons No.01 of 2022 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2299/46 of September 28, 2022;
“repatriation of export proceeds into Sri lanka rules” means the repatriation of Export Proceeds into Sri lanka 
rules No. 1 of 2022 issued by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri lanka and published in the 
Gazette (Extraordinary) No. 2270/66 of March 11, 2022, (as amended);
“resident” and “non-resident” shall have the same meanings as in the act; and
“Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance Scheme” means the Sri Lanka Deposit Insurance Scheme established under 
section 39 of the Banking (Special Provisions) act, No. 17 of 2023.
EOG 07 - 0271 