

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
727
727
wxl 1"662 - 2010 cQ,s ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'07'09
No. 1,662 – FRIDAY , JULY 09, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th July, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd July,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 728
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... 736
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,661 of 02.07.2010 was not published.
Tamil version of this Gazette is separately printed.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
728
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
Animal Production and Health Enactment 2010 bearing No. .................. of Uva Provincial Council
THIS enactment shall be presented to the Uva Provincial Council after 10 days of publishing in the gazette. Any matter regarding the
Enactment must be forwarded to me within 10 days after this gazette notification.
ANURA RA VINDRA WIDANAGAMAGE,
Uva Provncial Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian
Development, Animal Production, Inland Fisheries,
Enviroment and Tourism.
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH STATUTE BEARING No. ............... OF 2010 OF UV A PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
A Statute to provide regulation to establish an Animal Production and Health Department for the maintenance of Animal
Production and Health Service in the Uva Province successfully and efficiently and to matters consequent to it under the authorities vested
under No. 20 of list 1 of Sub Schedule 9 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enacts as follows :
1. This statute is designated as the Animal Production and Health Statute bearing No. ........... of 2009 of Uva
Provincial and will be implemented on the date approval is received from the Uva Provincial Governor or on a later date
ordered.
2.1 An Animal Production and Health Department should be established to fulfil the purposes of this Statute
and the Uva Provincial Governor should appoint an officer in class I of the Animal Production and Health
Service as the Head of the Department. The relevant organization structure is shown in Sub-schedule
No. 1.
2.2 Additional Director, deputy directors and other officers should be appointed to perform the workload of
this Department, Regulations in Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 are relevant to the appointment
of staff, transfers and control of their discipline and other consequent matters.
2.3 Institutes required to perform the workload of the Department can be established at district, divisional
and rural levels.
2.4 Officers and Minor Staff appointed to perform the duties of this Statute should be considered as servants
of the Provincial Government Service (after the approval of the Governor of the Uva Province) as meant
in the Establishments Code.
2.5 Officers and Minor Staff who were working in the Animal Production and Health Department that
existed prior to the implementation of the Statute should be considered as appointed under this Statute
after declaring their willingness.
3. Subjected to the general and special directives of the Minister of the Uva Provincial Council in charge of the
Animal Production and Health subject the Secretary of that Ministry should be in charge of the administration of this
Statute.
4. The authorities vested with the Provincial Director under this Statute can be vested with the Deputy
Directors appointed under the regulations in the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
5.1 Planning, implementation, review and appraisal of Veterinary Resources Development Projects and
Programmes at Provincial level.
5.2 Maintenance of Project Services for the provision of modern technological knowledge to the people
regarding Animal Husbandry.
Abbreviated
Designation and
date of
implementation.
Establishment of a
Department and the
structure.
Provincial Councils Notifications
Vesting of
authorities.
Workload of the
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
729
5.3 Maintenance of Animal Health Services for animal disease diagnosis, treatment of sick animals prevention
of diseases (pet animals should also be included).
5.4 Encouragement of people in animal production affairs by holding demonstrations regarding animal
husbandry.
5.5 Maintenance of breeding services including artificial insemination to raise the lineage of animal in farms.
5.6 Provision of animals including oxen, goats, pigs and fowls of high lineage to farmers.
5.7 Implementation of Animal Nutrition Development and Veterinary Food Production Programmes including
improved grass varieties planting materials necessary to cultivate legume varieties.
5.8 Taking action to provide technological and consultancy services in Veterinary Resources Development
Affairs performed by other institutes and organizations in the Province.
5.9 Taking responsibility to implement ordinances and regulations regarding Animal Husbandry in the Province.
5.10 Setting up of Producers' Organizations for the development animal products marketing affairs supply of
other necessary services and popularization of the use of fresh milk.
5.11 Holding of Provincial Competitions to appraise the farmers involved in animal production field and
officers encouraging them and organization of award presenting ceremonies.
6. The Provincial Director possesses all the powers required to fulfil the purposes and the workload under
this Statute subjected to the limits in the written law. Relevant to the fulfilling of duties entrusted to him the Provincial
Director can request a certain information from different institutes of the Provincial Council, Local Government
Institutes, Public Organizations or individuals and the said institutes or persons are bound to supply those information.
7. A Provincial Advisory Board should be established to give advises to the Minister in charge of Animal
Production and Health subject to fulfil the purposes of this Statute. The said Advisory Board should be appointed by
the Minister in charge of the subject and its composition should be as follows :
(i) The Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject,
(ii) Provincial Director,
(iii) Additional Director of Animal Production and Health,
(iv) Two Deputy Directors of Animal Production and Health,
(v) Uva Provincial Agricultural Director,
(vi) Two representatives of the Veterinary Resources Manufacturers' Societies,
(vii) Two representatives of the relevant field named by the Minister in charge of the subject (for the two
Districts),
(viii) A representative of the Agriculture Insurance Board,
(ix) A representative named by the National Veterinary Resources Board,
(x) A representative named by the "Milco" Institute,
Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject should be the Chairman of the Advisory Board and
the Provincial Director should hold the Secretary post.
8.1 To give advices, proposals and guidance to the Minister in charge of the subject in implementing the
regulations mentioned as that should be supplied by this Statute.
8.2 To submit advises and proposals necessary to solve various problems arising from time to time in the
Veterinary Resources and Animal Health field.
8.3 It is the duty of that Board to give advises to the Minister regarding a matter or matters referred to their
attention by either the Minister in charge of the subject or the Secretary in relevance to the Veterinary
Resources and Animal Health field and also to give advises to the Minister regarding other matters
thought to be advised by the Board.
Responsibility of the
Advisory Board and
the workload.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
730
8.4 It is the responsibility of the Secretary of the Ministry to make arrangements for the duty procedure of
the Advisory Board and to convene and meetings.
9.1 A member of the Advisory Board named by the Minister in charge of the subject can be dismissed any
time from the membership of the Board and a Board member can resign from the membership by handing
over his resignation in writing to the Minister.
9.2 The Minister can appoint another person opportunely to cover the duties of the post in an instance
where the duties of that post can not be performed due to the Chairman's or any other Board member's
bad health condition or going abroad or some other reason.
9.3 A member of the Board should hold the post for a period of three years from the date of appointment
unless that member has resigned from his post or dismissed from the post by the Minister. The new
person appointed in place of a person losing his membership for whatever the reason should hold the
membership only for the balance period of three years of the member so leaving.
10. The Minister in charge of the subject will appoint Divisional Advisory Committees consisting of the
following members at Divisional Secretary Division levels to give advises to the Provincial Director regarding Animal
Production and Health Affairs and relevant necessary matters in the Uva Province :
(i) The Divisional Secretary of the relevant Divisional Secretary Division should be the Chairman of the
Committee and the V eterinary Medical Officer of the Division should be the Secretary of the said
committee ;
As the other members of the committee ;
(ii) Assistant Director of Agriculture of the relevant territory ;
(iii) Animal Development Instructors of the relevant territory ;
(iv) Two representatives of the Organizations involved in V eterinary Resources Manufactory ;
(v) Divisional Agrarian Services Officers of the relevant territory ;
(vi) Agriculture Insurance Officers of the relevant territory ;
(vii) A representative named by the Min ister in charge of the subject should be appointed.
11. Dairy farm organizations, self-managed milk producing societies, dairy farmer and other Animal Husbandry
Groups should obtain the registration by the Divisional Veterinary Officers on the guidance of the Provincial Director.
Registers of such registered Farmer Organizations should be maintained up to date by the Provincial Director.
12. ( a) Financial allocations required for the management and maintenance of institutes established under
this Statute and to implement the proposals of the Development Plan prepared annually should be
obtained from the Annual Budget of the Provincial Council.
(b) Other financial allocations received from local and foreign sources can also be made available for the
affairs of the Department subjected to the regulations in the written law.
(c) Auditing affairs should be performed subjected to the regulations relevant in Section 23 of Provincial
Council Act, No. 42 of 1987. Internal auditing affairs should also be performed by a Provincial
Director of auditing.
13.1 An Annual Management Report including the manner in which the Animal Production and Health
Services in the Uva Province were maintained during a year, problems cropped up the steps taken to
solve them and tendencies regarding Animal Health should be forwarded to the Minister in charge of the
subject by the Provincial Director before a lapse of three months from the end of that said year.
13.2 That report should be forwarded to the Provincial Council expeditiously by the Minister.
14.1 The Minister can enact regulations regarding either a certain matter ordered or authorized to enact orders
by this statute and also regarding the following matters :–
(i) Preparation of the poilcy regarding Animal Husbandry ;
(ii) Obtaining aids from local and foreign sources ;
Abolition of
membership of the
Advisory Board.
Divisional
Advisory
Committees.
Registration of
Farmer
Organizations.
Financial
Allocations.
Auditing Affairs.
Annual Management
Report.
Orders can be enacted.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
731
(iii) Provision of facilities to people involved in Animal Husbandry ;
(iv) Performing urgent investigation affairs ;
(v) Payment of remunerations and allowances ;
(vi) Appraisal of task implementation in institutes and services ;
(vii) Provision of regulations to investigate Departmental affairs ;
(viii) Enacting orders relevant to animal protection affairs in the Province.
14.2 Every regulation made under Sub section 14.1 should be published in the Gazette and should be implemented
on the date of such publication or on a later date ordered.
14.3 After the publication of every regulation made under Sub section 14.1 in the gazette it should be submitted
as early as possible to the Uva Province Provincial Council for approval and if there is any regulation not
approved it should be considered as cancelled from the date not approved but, any action taken under that
regulation should not be affected by that cancellation.
14.4 Date of such cancellation of a particular regulation should be published in the Gazette.
15. If on the day prior to the implementation of this statute a certain asset/property or authority or man
power has been used or a specimen, a notice a permit, a document or such a writing have been ordered to use all such
things should be considered under this statute as assets and properties vested with this Department either by the
Government or by some other method.
16.1 Violating orders or regulations in this statute or formulated under that or neglecting to function according
to those regulations or obstructing a person willfully to perform the duty entrusted to him under the
regulations in this statute or formulated under that will be an offence under this Statute subjected to the
regulations in the written law.
16.2 Every person doing an offence under this Statute when convicted by a brief legal inquiry before a
Magistrate should be subjected to a fine not exceeding Rupees Two Thousand or an imprisonment of two
years or both the fine and the imprisonment.
17.1 By “The Governor”, The Governor of Uva Province is meant.
17.2 By “The Minister”, The Minister in Charge of Uva Provincial Animal Production and Health subject is
meant.
17.3 By “The Province”, the Uva Provincial territory shown in the 13th Amendment of the Constitution of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is meant.
17.4 By "The Provincial Council”, the Uva Province Provincial Council is meant.
17.5 By “The Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health”, the officer appointed under Section 2.1
of this statute is meant.
17.6 Under the situation of dissolution of provincial, the Governor of Uva Province is substituted for Subject
Minister in all cases mentioned in the Statute, until a new Provincial Council is established.
17.7 By “The Animal Protection Affairs”, prevention of illegal transport and killing of animal not suitable for
killing is meant.
17.8 By “Pet Animals”, Dogs, Cats, Birds and other pet animals kept at homes are meant.
18. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions in this Statute, the Sinhala version
will be in force.
Assets and
properties
Ordering penalties
for neglecting
regulations of the
statute
Interpretation
Interpretation

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
732
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF PROVINCIAL ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH MINISTRY
Provincial Minister
In Charge of the subject
Secretary of the Provincial Ministry (S. L. A. S. I)
Provincial Director
Animal Production and Health (A. P . & H. D. I)
Additional Provincial Director Additional Provincial Director
(Development and Administration) (Subject Study Specialist)
(A. P. & H. D. I) (A. P. & H. D. I)
Deputy Director (Badulla) Deputy Director (Moneragala)
(A. P . & H. D. II/I) (A. P . & H. D. II/I)
Veterinary Medical Officer Veterinary Medical Officer
Animal Administrative Officer (Badulla) Animal Administrative Officer (Moneragala)
(A. P . & H. D. II/I) (A. P . & H. D. II/I)
Animal Development Instructors (Badulla) Animal Development Instructors (Moneragala)
(S. L. T. S. II/I) (S. L. T. S. II/I)
07–205/1
––––––––––––––
UV A  PROVINCE PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
Agriculture Development Enactment 2010 bearing No. ................. of Uva Province Provincial Council
THIS Enactment shall be presented to the Uva Province Provincial Council after 10 days of publishing in the Gazette. Any matter regarding
the Enactment must be forwarded to me within 10 days after this Gazette notification.
ANURA RA VINDRA WIDANAGAMAGE,
Uva Provncial Minister of Agriculture,  Agrarian
Development,  Animal Production, Inland Fisheries,
Enviroment and Tourism.
UV A PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
DRAFT STATUTE OF UVA PROVINCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
UV A PROVINCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT STATUTE BEARING No. ............. OF 2010
A Statute to provide regulation to establish an Agricultural Department in the Uva Province to implement the authorities vested
by No. 09 of List 1 of Sub-schedule 9 of the 13th Amendment of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and for
connected consequent matters.
The Uva Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enacts as follows :–
–––––> –––> –––>
––>
––>
––>
––>
–––> –––>
–––> –––>

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
733
1. This statute is designated as the Uva Provincial Agricultural Development  Statute bearing No. ........... of
be year 2009 and will be implemented from the date approval of Uva Provincial Governor is received or from a latter
date ordered.
2. The purpose of this statute is to provide allocations required to organize and maintain a wide programme
to bring the Agricultural Development in the Province to a higher level by utilizing modern agricultural techniques and
through advertising methods and also to uplift the living condition of the farmer families.
3. To fulfill the purposes of this statute and also to implement them, a Provincial Agricultural Department and
a system of District Offices, Regional Offices and Divisional Offices will be established.
4. To maintain agricultural extension, development and agricultural services at a commendable level the staff
in all the services in the Agricultural Department involved in the service in the Province so far, should be identified,
subjected to their willingness, as member of the Provincial Government Service.
5. Human Resources required to the office system organized according to Section 3 above should be provided
from the officers mentioned in Section 4. Such Officers will be appointed to respective posts by the Uva Provincial
Governor or relevant authorities.
6.1 (a) Organize and implement field extension affairs targeting the identification of ideal regions for
traditional indigenous crops as well as newly introduced crops and popularization of crop cultivation
accordingly.
(b) Maintaining model cultivations in the Province using strategies of increasing the productivity of
new economical crops and influencing the farming people to embrace those strategies and thereby
raising the income of the family units to a higher level.
(c) Educating the farmer of the importance of the necessity to increase the income more by making use
of the area available and the economical gains earned thereby than expanding the cultivating field.
(d) Identifying clearly the Uva quota in the National Agricultural Production implement an extension
programme on a long term basis in a definite manner targeting that production capacity.
(e) Establishment of a Computer Data System including the details regarding area, crops production
according to annual and seasonal cultivations, expectations, targets relevant to agriculture and
maintain it up to date.
(f) Regularisation of agricultural extension affairs by way of organizing small farmer groups.
6.2 (a) Allowing to bring expeditiously the modern techniques and methodologies introduced frequently
for the improvement of the agricultural field and by providing opportunities to the farming people
to absorb those methodologies properly, to provide chances to understand the benefits that can be
obtained from them.
(b) To give prominency to wide programmes introducing new crop varieties having a high demand and
a better economical gain in Departmental programmes.
(c) To control the use of chemical manure and insecticides and to popularise the use of carbonic manure
and indigenous insect control methods and by increasing a number of tract demonstrations to take
steps to widen the demand for those fields.
(d) Production, distribution after importing of quality seeds and planting materials of new kinds and
varieties and increase of service facilities.
(e) Establishment of cultivating fields as crop blocks.
(f) Provision of opportunities to obtain systems improved by modern technological methods such as
tissue planting in plenty and easily.
(g) Introduction of agro based industries and forwarding those products to the market.
Abbreviated
Designation and
Date of
implementation
Purpose
Establishment of an
Office System
Staff
Agricultural
Extension
Agricultural

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
734
(h) Contribution to popularise be keeping and floral cultivation relevant to garden cultivation
development.
6.3 (a) Organization of workshops regarding planned land utilization and scientific water management.
(b) Organization of demonstrations and workshops properly in respect of modern technology and
methodologies developing frequently to reach officers and farming people and to ascertain the
active participation of the farming people in them.
(c) Floating research affairs based on Divisional weather patterns, pesticides, soil patterns and cultivating
methodology and providing the recommendations given on those results to relevant parties.
(e) Providing a wide knowledge to post harvest technology and to various profiles of prerequisite
production, educating regarding maximum gain receiving strategies and making the necessary inputs
abundant to the producers.
(f) Conservation of natural resources in the Province and introducing relevant satisfactory management
methods.
7.1 Provincial Agricultural Secretary who is a compulsory member of the monthly District Agricultural
Committee should hold the Co-chairmanship of that committee together with the District Secretary
who is holding the chairmanship of that committee at present. Deputy Director of Agriculture will hold
the Secretary Post.
7.2 To the Divisional Agricultural Committee held presided by the Divisional Secretary compulsory
participation of all the officers in the agricultural field serving in that Division should be given.
8. An Advisory committee comprising of not less than 19 members for the province should be established
with the agreement of the Minister of Provincial Agriculture –
1. The Secretary of Agriculture should function as the Chairman of that committee,
2. The Provincial Director of Agriculture should be the Secretary of that Committee,
3. The two Government Agents of Badulla and Moneragala Districts,
4. The two Deputy Directors of Agriculture of Badulla and Moneragala Districts,
5. The two Assistant Commissioners of Agrarian Services,
6. Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health,
7. The two Land Utilization Planning Officers of Badulla and Moneragala Districts,
8. Four Agrarian Committee representatives and six other representatives having a sound knowledge
regarding agriculture named by the Minister,
9. Two District Officers of the Statistics Department.
9.1 To give advises, proposals and guidance to the Minister-in-Charge of the subject in implementing the
regulations mentioned as that should be provided by this statute.
9.2 To give advises to the Minister-in-Charge of the subject in solving various problems arising from time
to time in the agriculture field.
9.3 It is the responsibility of the Advisory Committee to give advises to the Minister regarding a matter or
matters referred to the attention by the Minister or by the Secretary and regarding other matters though
to be advised by the Committee relevant to the agriculture field.
9.4 It is the responsibility of the Secretary of the Ministry of set regulations for the duty procedure of the
Advisory Committee and convening and holding meetings.
10.1 Any member named by the Minister as a member of the Committee can be dismissed from that post
and a particular member can resign from the post by handing over his resignation in writing to the
Minister.
Agricultural
Education and
Research.
District Agricltural
Committee
Divisional
Agricultural
Committee
District Agricultural
Advisory Committee
Responsibility and
workload of the
Advisory Committee
Abolition of the
Committee
Membership.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
735
10.2 The Minister can appoint another person opportunely to cover the duties of the post in an instance
where the duties of that post can not be performed due to the Chairman’s or any other Committee
member’s bad health condition or going abroad or some other reason.
10.3 A member of the Committee should hold the post for a period of three years from the date of
appointment unless that member has resigned from his post or vacated his post or dismissed from that
post by the Minister.
11.1 The Minister can appoint Advisory Committees consisting of the following persons at Divisional
Secretary Division levels to give advises to the Provincial Director regarding agricultural affairs in a
particular section of the province and other relevant matters necessary.
11.2 ( a) Divisional Secretary,
(b) Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(c) All the Agrarian Services Committee Chairmen in the Division,
(d) All the Divisional Agrarian Services Officers in the Division,
(e) All the Agricultural Instructors in the Division,
(f) A Grama Seva Niladhari each from the Agrarian Services Committee territory in the Division.
11.3 Divisional Secretary of that Division should be the Chairman of the Divisional Advisory Committee.
An Agricltural Instructor should be the Secretary of that Committee.
11.4 To the post of Secretary of the Divisional Advisory Committee a person from the said members, an
officer in a Government Department or an Authority should be selected at the first meeting session of
the Committee.
11.5 Regarding all the matters referred to the attention of Divisional Advisory Committee by the attention
of Divisional Advisory Committee by the Agricultural Director or the Assistant Director action should
be taken by that Advisory Committee and finalise in a definite manner in a definite time.
12. ( a) Implement the Pesticide Act.
(b) Implement the Manure Act and the Soil Conservation Act.
(c) Implement the Seed Act.
(d) Other Ordinances relevant to agriculture.
13.1 The Minister should perform the enacting of regulations to implement the sections and orders in this
statute with the approval of the Provincial Cabinet.
13.2 In addition to the regulations enacted in this statute or under this statute the Minister has the authority
to annul the orders and decisions given by the Secretary of the Provincial Agricultural Ministry or
Provincial Agricultural Director or his officers acording to their discretion. As such the decision of the
Minister is the final decision and under the supervision of the Secretary of the Ministry, the Provincial
Director and Officers under them and all the persons involved in that decision are bound to implement
that decision.
14. Unless another meaning is required regarding the terms in this statute –
By the “Provincial Council” the Uva Province Provincial Council is meant ;
By “The Governor” the Governor of Uva Province is meant ;
By “The Minister” The Minister-in-Charge of the Agricultural Ministry subject is meant ;
By “The Secretary” The Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry is meant ;
By “The Divisional Secretaries” The Administrative Officers of different Divisional Secretary Divisions
are meant ;
By “The Department” The Provincial Agriculture Department is meant ;
Divisional Advisory
Committee
General Matters
Minister's Authority
to enact regulations
Authorities of the
Minister
Interpretation

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
736
By “The Provincial Director” The Provincial Agricultural Director or some other officer authorized by
the Director to perform the authorities and duties of the Director under this statute is meant ;
By “Deputy Agricultural Director” Provincial Deputy Director of Agriculture is meant ;
By “The Provincial Agricultural Advisory Committee” the Provincial Advisory Committee established
under Section is meant ;
By “The Divisional Agricultural Advisory Committee” the Divisional Advisory Committee established
under Section 11 is meant.
15. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhala, Tamil or English versions of this statute the Sinhala version
should be in force.
07–205/2
Discrepancies
Posts - Vacant
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  DIRECTOR  (INTERNAL  AUDIT)  OF  THE  INTERNAL  AUDIT
SECTION  OF  THE  CHIEF  SECRETARY'S  OFFICE  OF  THE  WESTERN  PROVINCE
APPLICATIONS are called in from persons permanently residing within the Western Province/Officers of the Provincial Public Service who
have accomplished the qualifications mentioned in Paragraph 03 of this announcement for the recruitment of the Post of Director (Internal
Audit) in the Internal Audit Section of Chief Secretary's Office of the Western Province.
02. Number of vacancies existing is 01.
Note.– The final decision in relation to these recruitments lies with the Hon. Governor of the Western Province. An officer
appointed to the Internal Audit Section of the Chief Secretary's Office of the Western Province shall not belong to any other
service from the day of his/her appointment.
2.1 According to the Public Administration Circular 06/2006, monthly remuneration relevant to this post is Rs. 22,935 -
10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL-1-2006, Step 22).
2.2 Age Limit.– is not relevant since this applies for the applicants of Public/Provincial Public Service.
2.3 Service Conditions.– Service conditions depend on the approved service minute. This is a permanent position with
eligibility for a pension.
03. Qualifications :
(a) Applicants should be permanent residents of the Western Province ; and
(b) A Class II Officer of the Internal Audit Section of the Chief Secretary's Office of the Western Province with 03 years of
service ; or
(c) A Class I Officer of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service ; or
(d) A Class I, Grade II Officer of the Sri Lanka Audit Service.
04. Procedure of Recruitment.– Applicants, who have accomplished the qualifications stated in Paragraph 03 above, will be
subjected to an interview held by a proper interview board, subsequent to which the recruitment will take place.
05. Procedure for Application :
5.1 Applications prepared in A4 size papers according to the specimen application contained in this announcement and
duly completed, should be sent to the address : Secretary, Provincial Public Service Commission (W. P .), Independence
Square, Colombo 07, by registered post on or before 31.07.2010. On the top left corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed, "Recruitment for the Post of Director (Internal Audit)" should be stated. Applicants who fail to
do so will be considered as non-eligible. Whether application is received or not, will not be informed. (Officers who are
already in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service shall forward their applications through the Secretary of the
Ministry/Head of the Department). Applications received late will be rejected without any prior notice.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
737
06. Other Conditions.– You will be subjected to all the conditions mentioned in the recruitment procedure approved by Hon.
Governor for the Audit Service of the Western Province.
07. On the pre-conception of those who are eligible as per the announcement had been applied, on 31.07.2010 or a date prior to
that, all the applicants will be called in for the interview. Calling in for the interview is not a valid reason to believe that the applicant has
accomplished all the qualifications to be eligible for this post. If at any instance it is revealed that the applicant does not  possess
qualifications as mentioned in the announcement, his/her right to obtain the appointment will be annulled. It is compulsory tha t every
applicant complete all the qualifications relevant to this post by 31.07.2010 or prior to that date.
08. The decision of the Provincial Public Service Commission of the Western Province will be the final decision in relation to the
facts related to the announcement for the calling up of applications, or regarding other facts not revealed by that announcement.
V.  RAJAPAKSHA,
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission.
Western Province,
June, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF DIRECTOR (INTERNAL AUDIT) OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SECTION OF
THE CHIEF SECRETARY'S OFFICE OF THE WESTERN PROVINCE
01. ( a) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(b) Full Name :–––––––––––.
02. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. : -  Official :–––––––––––. Residence :–––––––––––.
05. Place and address of current employment :–––––––––––.
06. Ministry/Department under the purview of which the current place of employment operates :–––––––––––.
07. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
08. Period of residence within the Western Province as at 31.07.2010 :
Years :–––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
09. As per paragraph 03 of the announcement for calling up of applications :
(i) Current position :–––––––––––.
(Mention the service/class)
(ii) Date of appointment for the above post :–––––––––––.
Period of service at the above post, as at 31.07.2010 :–––––––––––.
10. (i) Whether you are an officer of the public/provincial public service :–––––––––––.
(ii) If you have been absorbed to the Provincial Public Service, state that fact and the date of absorption :–––––––––––.
11. Have you earned all the salary increments during the past five years prior to the date 31.07.2010 :–––––––––––.
If not, write details :–––––––––––.
12. During your service, at any point, have you ever had a disciplinary action (except advice) taken against you ? :–––––––––––.
If so, write details :–––––––––––.
13. Have you taken no-pay leave during the past five years prior to the date 31.07.2010 :–––––––––––.
If so, write details :–––––––––––.
14. I, ............................ hereby state that the information contained herein are true and correct according to the best of my knowledge and
belief. As per the conditions of recruitment mentioned herein, if I happened to be found of providing false information, I inform that I
am well aware that my eligibility for the Post of Director (Intrnal Audit) of the Western Province will be rejected and disciplinary action
can be taken against me.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
738
CERTIFICATION OF THE HEAD OF THE ESTABLISHMENT
I certify that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. is currently employed as a ............................... in this office and
she/he has placed his/her signature on ............................. before me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Establishment.
(Place official stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
CERTIFICATION OF THE SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY/HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I recommend that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ is currently employed as a .................... ............ in this
 Ministry/Department, the details contained in the application are correct according to the personal file, her/his service is satisfactory and
if she/he is selected for this post that she/he can be/cannot be released from the current position that she/he bears.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and the Official Stamp of the
Head of the Ministry/Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–308
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(Position and Grade)
(Position and Grade)