

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'12'02
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 02.12.2024
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2413$12 – 2024 foieïn¾ ui 02 jeks i÷od – 2024'12'02
No. 2413/12 – MONDAY, DECEMBER  02, 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 043158 – 06 (12/2024)
Rules 
Rules made by Heart to Heart Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as the body corporate) under Section 7 of the Heart 
to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 10 of 2024 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment).
 1. Name
  The name of the body corporate shall be Heart to Heart Trust Fund.
 2. Address
  The oﬃ   cial address of the body corporate shall be Sri Jayawardenapura General Hospital, Thalapathpitiya, Nugegoda, 
Sri Lanka.
 3. General Objects
  The general objects of the body corporate shall be -
 (1) to promote the awareness of the general public on all matt ers pertaining to heart diseases including the cause 
and prevention of such diseases by organizing lectures, seminars, and other pertinent programmes; and
 (2) to provide ﬁ  nancial assistance to heart patients in need of funds who seek  treatments, particularly at any 
hospital in Sri Lanka.    


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'12'02
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 02.12.2024
 2A
 4. Powers of the body corporate
  The powers of the body corporate shall be -
 (a) to purchase, rent, construct, renovate, and otherwise obta in lands or buildings which may be required for the 
purpose of the body corporate and to deal with or dispose of the same as determined by the Board of Trustees 
with a view to promoting the objects of the body corporate;
 (b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly o r through any oﬃ  cer or agent authorized on that 
behalf by the body corporate, all such contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the attainment of the 
objects or the exercise of the powers of the body corporate;
 (c) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities and to  receive grants, gifts, or donations in cash or kind 
for the attainment of the objects of the body corporate;
  Provided that, the Board of Trustees shall obtain the prior w ritten approval of the Department of External 
Resources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts, or donations made to the body corporate.
 (d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissory 
notes and other negotiable instruments and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts in any bank; 
 (e) to invest any funds that are not immediately required for the purposes of the body corporate, in such manner 
as the Board of Trustees determine;
 (f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform, and administer any  lawful trust having objects similar to the body 
corporate or any real or personal property with a view to promoting the objects of the body corporate; 
 (g) to appoint, employ, dismiss, or terminate the services of oﬃ  cers and servants of the body corporate and exercise 
disciplinary control over them and to pay them such salaries, allowances, and gratuities, as may be determined 
by the body corporate in terms of rules made under section 7 of the Act;
 (h) to organize lectures, seminars, and conferences with a vie w to promoting the objects of the body corporate;
 (1) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign ins titutions having similar objects to that of the 
body corporate;
 (2) to train oﬃ   cers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroad for the purposes of the body corporate;
 (i) generally to do all such acts and things authorized by thi s Act for the achievement of the objects of the body 
corporate.
 5. Management of the aﬀ  airs of the body corporate
 (1) Management of the aﬀ  airs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Trustees consisting of the 
following  oﬃ  ce bearers –
 (a) Two Co-Chairpersons;
 (b) Trustee in charge of the administrative and secretarial aﬀ  airs;
 (c) Trustee in charge of the ﬁ  nancial aﬀ airs;
 (d) Trustee in charge of the national and international aﬀ  airs;
 (e) Trustee in charge of the legal aﬀ  airs; and
 (f) A committee consisting of twenty Trustees.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'12'02
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 02.12.2024
 3A
 (2) The Board of Trustees may meet as often as necessary. Howe ver, the Board of Trustees shall meet at least 
once in every two months.
 (3) The quorum for any meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be seven.
 6. Appointment of Trustees
 (1) An incumbent Trustee may nominate any person of eminence a nd integrity who has distinguished himself in 
public or professional life to be appointed as a Trustee.
 (2) The nomination referred to in subsection (1) shall be made  at a meeting of the Board of Trustees, in writing, 
and along with the Curriculum Vite of the nominee.
 (3) Where the Board of Trustees unanimously approves the nomin ation, the nominee shall be appointed as a 
Trustee of the body corporate.
 7. Appointment of Volunteer Members
 (1) The Board of Trustees may appoint such number of V olunteer  Members in order to get the assistance and 
expertise of such V olunteer Members for various projects undertaken by the body corporate.
 (2) Appointment and regulation of the aﬀ  airs pertaining to V olunteer Members shall be speciﬁ ed by sub-rules.
 8. Appointment of sub-committees
 (1) The Board of Trustees may appoint such number of sub commi ttees consisting of Trustees and V olunteer 
Members, for the purposes of the body corporate.
 (2) The chairperson of a sub-committee appointed under paragra ph (1) shall be a Trustee.
 9. Fund of the body corporate
 (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
 (2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, sub scription, contribution, fees or grant for and on 
account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banks approved by the Board of Trustees to 
the credit of the body corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c) of the principal enactment. 
 (3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money as are required to defray and expenditure incurred by 
the body corporate in the exercise, performance, and discharge of its powers, duties, and functions under the 
principal enactment and the rules made thereunder. 
 (4) (1) All cheques to be issued by the body corporate shall b e signed by one of the Co-chairpersons and the 
Trustee in charge of the ﬁ nancial aﬀ airs.
 (3) Where the Trustee in charge of the Financial Aﬀ  airs is not available, the two Co-chairpersons may sign the 
cheques.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'12'02
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 02.12.2024
 4A
 (5) For the purposes of this rule bank means a bank licensed u nder the provisions of the Banking Act, No.30 of 
1988.
 10. Accounts and Auditing
 (1) The ﬁ  nancial year of the body corporate shall be the calendar year. 
 (2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities 
and all other transactions of the body corporate.
 (3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited annual ly by the Auditor-General or a qualiﬁ ed auditor 
appointed by the Auditor-General in terms of provisions of Article 154 of Constitution and be certiﬁ ed by the 
Auditor-General or such qualiﬁ ed auditor.
 (4) For the purposes of this section ä qualiﬁ  ed auditor” means-
 (a) An individual who, being a member of the Institute of Char tered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any 
other Institute established by law, possesses a certiﬁ  cate to practice as an Accountant, issued by the 
Council of such Institute; or
 (b) A ﬁ  rm Accountants, each of the resident partners of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute established by law, possesses a certiﬁ cate to practice 
as an Accountant, issued by the Council of such Institute.
 11. Annual General Meeting
 (1) The Annual General Meeting of the body corporate shall be held on or before 31st day of July of each year.
 (2) The notice of the Annual General Meeting shall be given to  the members in writing by at least 14 days prior 
to the date appointed for the meeting.
 (3) Any resolution to be moved at the Annual General meeting s hall be given to the Trustee in charge of 
Administrative and Secretarial Aﬀ airs in writing at least (07) days prior to the date appointed for such meeting. 
 12. Special General Meeting
 (1) The Board of Trustees may on its own motion or at a writte n request of any ﬁ ve (05) Trustees stating business 
to be transacted, convene a Special General Meeting of the body corporate.
 (2) The Board of Trustees shall within two weeks of receiving the written request referred to in paragraph (1) 
convene the meeting.
 (3) No other business other than the business for which the me eting is convened shall be discussed at a Special 
General Meeting.
 (4) The volunteer members may be invited for the Annual Genera l Meeting or a Special General Meeting and 
they may express their views at the meeting but they shall have no voting rights. 
 13. Quorum
  Quorum for the Annual General Meeting and for a Special Gener al Meeting shall be Seven Trustees.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'12'02
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 02.12.2024
 5A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
 14. Procedure at the meetings of the body corporate
 (1) Any one of the Chairpersons shall preside all meetings of the body corporate. In the absence of both the 
chairpersons from any meeting, a member elected by the Trustees present shall preside at such meeting.
 (2) All questions for decisions at any meeting of the body cor porate shall be decided by the vote of majority of the 
Trustees present. In the case of an equality of votes, the chairperson or the Trustee presiding at such meeting 
shall, in addition to his own vote, has a casting vote.
 (3) Subject to the provisions of rule 14(i) and 14(ii), the bo dy corporate may regulate the procedure in regard to 
the meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.
 (4) For the Purposes of this rule a meeting of the body corpor ate includes a meeting of the Board of Trustees, the 
Annual General Meeting or a Special General Meeting of the body corporate. 
 15. Remote Participation
 (1) A Trustee may participate in a meeting by means of an elec tronic device.
 (2) Participation in a meeting via an electronic device shall be construed as participation in persons at the meeting.
 16. Amendment of the Rules
 (1) Any Rule hereof may be amended only at a duly convened Ann ual General Meeting or a Special General 
Meeting and approving such amendment by not less than Two Third (2/3) of the Trustees present and entitled 
to vote.
 (2) A Trustee proposing amendments to the Rules shall give at least Seven days notice in writing to the Trustee 
in charge of the Administrative and secretarial aﬀ airs.
 17. Appointment of Auditor
  Subject to the provisions of Rule 10, an Auditor shall be app ointed by the Trustees at the Annual General Meeting.
 18. Interpretation
 (1) The Board of Trustees shall have the power and authority t o interpret any term or provision of these Rules.
 (2) Any interpretation given by the Board of Trustees shall be  ﬁ nal and conclusive and be bound by the general 
membership.
 Dr. Rajitha Y de Silva,
 Co. Founder
 Dr. Ruvan Ekanayaka,
 Co. Founder
Sri Jayawardenapura Hospital,
Talapathpitiya.
05th December, 2024.
EOG 12 - 0011