

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"115 – 2019 ud¾;= ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'03'15
No. 2,115 –  FRIDAY ,  MARCH 15, 2019
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 806
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … …  800
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th April, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd March, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
797-B 81504- 5,403 (03/2019) 
Note.–  (i) Coconut Development (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 15, 2019.
 (ii) Judicature (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of February 15, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
798
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
799
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
800
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
 Recruitment of Graduates in Education to Class 2 Grade II of Sri Lanka Teachers' Service  for the 
Task of School Student Counselling in the Sinhala Medium and Tamil  Medium of the  National and 
Provincial Schools in the Island - 2019
APPLICATIONS are invited to recruit Graduates in Education to Class 2 Grade II of Sri Lanka Teachers' Service for the 
Task of School Student Counselling in the Sinhala Medium and Tamil Medium of the National and Provincial Schools 
in the Island - 2019. Applications prepared in compliance with the specimen application given at the end of this Gazette 
notiﬁ cation should be sent by registered post on or before 12.04.2019 to reach "Assistant Secretary, Teacher Establishment 
Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla".The term, "Recruitment of Graduates in Education to Class 2 
Grade II of Sri Lanka Teachers' Service for the Task of School Student Counselling in the Sinhala Medium and Tamil 
Medium of the National and Provincial Schools in the Island - 2019" should be compulsorily mentioned on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the applications.
Note 1 : The complaints in relation to application or a letter connected to the application which are lost or delayed in 
the Post are not entertained. The Candidates themselves should bear the consequences caused due to delaying 
the applications until the closing date of applications. Further, the title of the Application in the Sinhala 
application should be mentioned in English, In addition to Sinhala language and in Tamil applications in 
English In addition to the Tamil Language.
02. Method of Recruitment to Service :
 2.1 Applicants should appear for a general interview to check whether they have ful ﬁ lled the quali ﬁ cations 
indicated in 5.2 along with the qualiﬁ cations indicated in 5.1 of this notiﬁ cation. Applicants who have not 
fulﬁ lled the qualiﬁ cations mentioned in this notiﬁ cation will be rejected in the interview.
 2.2 The applicants quali ﬁ ed from the general interview will be subject to a practical test as per section 9.2 of 
this Gazette notiﬁ cation in order to measure the learning and teaching process that will be important in the 
profession. Recruitments will be made as per the number of existing vacancies on the school based system 
subject to giving prominence to the total marks obtained at the practical test by the applicant.
 2.3 The list of vacancies related to the applicants will be displayed at the time of conducting the interview. 
Accordingly, the applicants should indicate their order of preference at the same instance in order to obtain 
the appointments to the schools where vacancies exist.
Note 2  : When there are several applicants who have requested the same school, the quali ﬁ ed applicants will be 
selected in compliance with a scheme of providing speciﬁ c marks that is approved by the Secretary of the 
Ministry of Education subsequent to calling the qualiﬁ ed applicants for a practical test.
 2.4 Since applicants will be recruited for these vacancies on school based system, transfers will not be provided 
under any circumstances until 5 years is completed.
 2.5 Existing Vacancies :
Province National Schools Provincial Schools
Sinhala medium Tamil medium Sinhala medium Tamil medium
Western  ––
Central 
Southern  ––
Northern  ––
Eastern  ––
North Western 
North Central  –––
Sabaragamuwa  – 
Uva  ––

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
801
Note 3 : - Those who apply for the Provincial Council School should be permanent residents of the particular 
province.
03. Conditions for Employing in the Service:
 I. This post is permanent. The of ﬁ cer should be subjected to a decision taken by the government in the future 
pertaining to the pension scheme entitled to the post.
 II. Of ﬁ cers recruited to the post will be subjected to a probationary period of three years and the ﬁ rst Efﬁ ciency 
Bar Examination should be passed within the three years.
 III. Of ﬁ cial Language Competency should be obtained as per the Public Administrative Circular No. 01/2014 
and the circulars incidental there to.
 IV . The Procedural Laws of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the government and other Departmental orders are 
applicable to this post.
 V . This Post is subjected to the Provisions stipulated in the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service Minute published on 
23.10.2014 in the Gazette Extraordinary bearing No. 1885/38 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and the revisions made to the Service Minute hereinafter and the general conditions applicable to 
the appointments made in the Public Service.
04. Salary Scale.– Salary scale of Rs. 33,300-495x5-680x5-825x7- 1,335x20-Rs. 71,650 (Monthly) of G-E-02 
-2016 as per the salary Circular bearing No. 03/2016 of the Public Administration Circular is entitled to the post. They 
will be placed on a salary of Rs.34, 290/- which is the third step of the salary scale. Payments of salaries will be made 
in compliance with the Provisions stipulated in the Schedule II of the Circular. In addition, you are entitled to the other 
allowances paid time to time to the Public servants by the government.
05. Education Qualiﬁ cations :
 5.1 The following quali ﬁ cations should be ful ﬁ lled as at 12.04.2019 in terms of the Sri Lanka Teachers' 
Service Minute and in accordance with the Cabinet Decision No. CP/17/0653/742/009 dated 23.05.2017.
 5.2 The Candidates should have obtained a Degree in Education with Counselling/Sociology as a main subject 
from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission as a degree conferring institution.
  and
 5.3 Should have passed Sinhala or Tamil Language as a subject at the G.C.E (Ordinary Level) Examination 
as per the Provisions stipulated in Sri Lanka Teachers' Service Minute.
Note 4: Persons who have passed the examinations recognized as equal to the local G.C.E (Ordinary Level) 
Examination by the Commissioner General of Examinations can apply for this post.
06. Age Limit :
 Age as at 12.04.2019  : Minimum limit : 18 years   Maximum limit : 35 years
Accordingly, only the applicants whose birthday falls on or before 12.04.2001 and on or after 12.04.1984 can apply 
for this post.
07. Other Qualiﬁ cations:
 I. Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
 II. Should possess a good moral character,
 III. All the quali ﬁ cations required for the recruitment to the post should have been ful ﬁ lled by the closing date 
of calling applications,
 IV . Every candidate should be physically and mentally ﬁ t enough to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to 
perform duties of the Post.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
802
08. Method of Application :
 8.1 Application should be in compliance with the specimen application attached to this noti ﬁ cation and it 
should be prepared using both sides of an A4 sized paper and ﬁ lled by the applicant himself/herself. It 
should be specially considered that the heads from 1.0 to 5.5 should appear on the ﬁ rst page and heads 
from 6.0 onwards should appear in the rest of the pages. Applications that are not in conformity with the 
specimen application and incomplete applications are rejected without notice. (It may be bene ﬁ cial to 
retain a photocopy of the application.) The applicant may ensure whether the completed application is 
consistent with the specimen application attached to the noti ﬁ cation. If they are not in conformity with 
each other, such applications will be rejected.
 8.2 One applicant is allowed to forward only one application.
 8.3 The signature of the applicant should be attested in the application. A candidate applying through an 
institution should make his signature attested by the Head of the institution or an ofﬁ cer authorized by him 
and an applicant who does not belong to that category should make his/her signature attested by a Head 
of a Government School, Grama Niladhari of the Division, a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, 
a Lawyer, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Ofﬁ cer in the three Forces, a permanent Staff Grade Of ﬁ cer 
serving in the Public Service or in a Local Government Service drawing an annual consolidated salary 
of Rs.240,360 or a higher salary, a Chief Incumbent or Nayaka Thero of a Buddhist temple or a clergy in 
charge of another religious place holding a considerable position.
 8.4 The medium of Language applying for the vacancy is not changed under any circumstances and the 
appeals submitted in this regard are not considered.
 8.5 The applications that are not in conformity with the Specimen application and the uncompleted application 
will be rejected. The complaints in relation to an application which in lost or delayed in the post are not 
entertained, Likewise, it will not be notiﬁ ed to you that the application is received.
09. Interview :
 9.1  General Interview-
  Marks will not be offered for the general interview.
Note 5 : Objects expected to be accomplished
  To examine whether the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the Service Minute and in the noti ﬁ cation or the 
newspaper advertisement published in compliance with the Service Minute have been fulﬁ lled and to test 
physical qualiﬁ cations.
 9.2 Practical Test :
  A presentation should be carried out on a topic identi ﬁ ed by the applicant as the practical test. Not less 
than 5 minutes will be allocated for the purpose. Marks as mentioned below will be offered.
Serial
No.
Criteria for awarding marks at the 
practical test
Maximum
marks
Minimum marks required to get 
through the practical test
01 Objective and approach 05 02
02 Personality and voice control 05 02
03 Clarity in communication 05 02
04 Time Management 05 02
05 Use of techniques in presentation 05 02
Total marks 25 10
Note 6 : Objects to be accomplished -

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
803
Measuring the competency of the applicant in the process of learning and teaching which is an important aspect in 
the profession of teaching.
10.  Instructions for ﬁ lling the application.– Use only Schedule 01, 02 and 03 in ﬁ lling the application.
 SCHEDULE 01
Medium of Language Code Number
Sinhala medium 2
Tamil medium 3
 SCHEDULE 02
Type of School Code Number
National Schools 1
Provincial Schools 2
 SCHEDULE 03
Province Code Number
Central Province 2
North Western Province 6
Sabaragamuwa Province 9
11. It is compulsory for the Ofﬁ cers who are currently serving in the Public Service to submit their applications that 
are attested by the respective Head of their Department under the Head No. 9.0 of the Application.
12. Candidates who will not be participated in the Interviews on the prescribed date will not be reconsidered under 
any circumstances.
13. Likely, all the certiﬁ cates should be forwarded on the date of the interview and any certi ﬁ cate submitted later 
will not be entertained.
14. The Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves the right of taking a decision on a matter which is not 
covered through this noti ﬁ cation and the right of taking a decision on ﬁ lling or not ﬁ lling a portion of any vacancies or 
completely ﬁ lling or not ﬁ lling the vacancies.
15. In case of any inconsistency prevails in the texts of this Gazette notiﬁ cation published in the Sinhala, Tamil and 
English Languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 PADMASIRI JAYAMANNA,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
Isurupaya, 
Pelawatte, 
Battaramulla.
On 18th day of February, 2019.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
804
SPECIMEN APPLICATION 
For Ofﬁ ce use only
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
RECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES IN EDUCATION TO CLASS 2 GRADE II OF SRI LANKA TEACHERS' SERVICE 
FOR THE TASK OF SCHOOL STUDENT COUNSELLING IN THE SINHALA MEDIUM AND TAMIL MEDIUM OF THE 
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL SCHOOLS IN THE ISLAND - 2019
1.0  Indicate the code number using Schedule 01 for the medium of language applying for vacancies 
 Medium of Language : 
 (Write the number in the relevant code)
2.0 Applying for vacancies :
   2.1 Type of school
    (Write the relevant code number in the cage using Schedule 02 that indicates type of school)
   2.2 Code number of the Province, if it is a Provincial School
    (Write the code number of the Province as per Schedule 03)
03.   3.1 Name in full (In English Block Capitals)  :–––––––––––––.
    (Ex. : AMARAKOON MUDIYANSELAGE NAMAL HERATH)
   3.2 Name mentioning the last name ﬁ rst and the initials at the end (Ex. : HERATH A. M. N.) :–––––––––––––.
   3.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil)  :–––––––––––––.
4.0 Present Address (In English Block Capitals)  :–––––––––––––.
5.0   5.1 National Identity Card Number : 
   5.2 Marital Status :  Unmarried - 1  Married - 2  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
   5.3 Date of Birth :  Year : Month : Date :
   5.4 Age as at 12.04.2019 :  Years :   Months :       Days :
   5.5 Sex : (Female - 1   Male  - 0) (Write the relevant number in the cage)
6.0 Information on Education Quali ﬁ cations :
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination : G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination
Year :.......................          Index Number :...............................
Subject                            Grade              Subject                   Grade
Year :.............      Index Number :..............
Subject                                               Grade
16 1
27 2
38 3
49 4
51 0

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
805
7.0 Information on Higher Educational Quali ﬁ cations : 
   7.1 Degree Followed :–––––––––––––. 
   7.2 University that issued the Degree :–––––––––––––.
   7.3 Effective Date of the Degree :–––––––––––––.
   7.4 Main subject/subjects followed for the Degree :–––––––––––––.
   7.5 Medium of the Degree :–––––––––––––.
I do hereby declare that the information furnished here is true according to my knowledge and belief. I am aware 
that I will be dismissed from the service if it is revealed that I am not eligible to be appointed to this post after being selected 
to the post. Any information mentioned herein will not be altered later. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
8.0 Attestation of Signature of the Applicant : 
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms. .............................................. submitting this application is personally known to me and 
he/she placed his/her signature before me
on ....................................................... 
  –––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the of ﬁ cer attesting the signature. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attestor :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Ofﬁ cial Frank)
9.0 Certiﬁ cate of the Head of the Department in case the applicant is a public servant :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Ms. .................................................. is submitted. It is notiﬁ ed that Mr./Mrs./Ms. .......
....................................... is serving in this Ministry/Department as a permanent/temporary/casual employee and that he/she 
can be/cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected for this post. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the Department or 
  the Of ﬁ cer Authorized. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Ofﬁ cial Frank)
03–704

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
806
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY OF LAND AND PARLIAMENTARY REFORMS 
 Survey Department
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment for the Post of Litho
Technological Ofﬁ cer (Training grade) of Sri Lanka Technological Service -  2019
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from qualiﬁ ed citizen of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination held for recruitment 
to the post of Litho Technological Of ﬁ cer (Training Grade) in Sri Lanka Technological Service which remains vacant in 
Survey Department.
1.1 Designation - Litho Technological Ofﬁ cer (Training Grade)
1.2 Nature of Duties of the post - Printing of maps and other printing works in the department.
2.0 The number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. The 
appointing authority has power to keep all or some of the vacancies without ﬁ lling.
3.0 Salary: Table No. 01
Grade Salary Scale Initial Monthly salary
Training Grade No Year 1 monthly Rs.21,532- Year 2 monthly 
Rs.21,770/- (In terms of provision of schedule V 
in P.A.C. 03/2016)
Grade III Monthly Rs. 31,040-10 x 445-11 x 660- 10 x 730-
10x 750- Rs. 57,550 (MN3-2016)
Rs.24,626/-
(In terms of provision of schedule II in P.A.C. 
03/2016)
Grade II Monthly Rs.31,040-10 x 445-11 x 660-10 x 730-
10x 750- Rs. 57,550 (Will be started from the 12
th 
salary step) (MN3-2016)
Rs.28,684/-
(In terms of provision of schedule II in P.A.C. 
03/2016)
Grade I Monthly Rs. 31,040-10 x 445-11 x 660-
10 x 730-10 x 750- Rs. 57,550 (Will be started 
from the 23
rd salary step) (MN3 - 2016)
Rs.34,506/-
(In terms of provision of schedule II in P.A.C. 
03/2016)
Special Grade Monthly Rs.41,580-11 x 755-18 x 1,030-
Rs. 68,425
(MN 7-2016)
Rs.32,960/-
(In terms of the provision of schedule II in P.A.C. 
03/2016)
4.0 Service Conditions of the post :
 4.1 When the candidates recruited to the training grade, pass the eligibility test conducted by the Institute of 
Surveying and Mapping, Diyathalawa at the end of two year training, recruitment to the post of Litho 
Technological Ofﬁ cer of grade III in Sri Lanka Technological Service will be made.
 4.2 The post of Litho Technological Of ﬁ cer of grade III in Sri Lanka Technological Service is permanent 
and pensionable and this post is subjected to three (03) year probation period. You are subject to a 
decision taken by the government in future regarding of the pension scheme entitle to you. Further, 
you should make contribution to the widow/widower and orphan’s pension scheme. You should make 
contribution for that as ordered by the government from time to time.
 4.3 Selected candidates should ready to serve only in the head of ﬁ ce of survey department. Selected 
candidate is subject to general conditions applicable to appointment to the public service speci ﬁ ed at 
the beginning of this Gazette noti ﬁ cation, to the service minute of Sri Lanka Technological service 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
807
and the amendments made thereto from time to time, procedural rules of Public Service Commission, 
Establishment Code, Financial Regulation and other orders and regulations that has been issued and will 
be issued by the government regarding of the Public Service.
 4.4 The Of ﬁ cers who join the service in a language other than of ﬁ cial language should obtain prescribed 
ofﬁ cial language proﬁ ciency within the probationary period.
 4.5 Second language pro ﬁ ciency applicable to his/her post should be obtained within ﬁ ve (05) years from 
the date of permanent appointment in terms of the Public Administration Circulars No. 01/2014 and the 
circulars incidental to it. If it is failed to obtain the said pro ﬁ ciency within the relevant period, salary 
increments will be suspended until the proﬁ ciency is obtained.
 4.6 Credit level pro ﬁ ciency in G.C.E.(O/L) English language should be obtained before the expiration of 5 
years in grade III.
 4.7 They should enter into an agreement with the department to fully complete the two years training, to 
serve in the department for six (06) years after two year training and if he/she leaves the training after 
the commencement date of training or if he/she fails to serve the contractual period in the department, 
a bond with ensuring of two guarantors recognized by the department should be signed before the 
commencement of the training, to pay the amount of money, Rs. 1,50,000.00, the money spent by the 
government is paid to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
5.0 Qualiﬁ cations :
 5.1  ( a)  Educational Qualiﬁ cations.– Should have passed the G.C.E.(A/L) examination in three subjects in 
science/ mathematics/ technology subject stream in one sitting with two subjects of Combined Maths 
and Physics,
  And
  Should have passed the G.C.E.(O/L) examination in six (06) subjects in one sitting with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another one subject.
 5.2 Physical Fitness.– All candidates should have physically and mentally ﬁ t adequate to carry out duties of 
their post.
 5.3 Other :
 (I) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (II) Should be of good character.
 (III) Any person ordained in any religious denomination, will not be eligible to sit for the examination.
 (IV) Only if the applicant has completed all the quali ﬁ cations and prescribed age limit in all respects as 
at the date mentioned in the notice calling for applications, it is accepted that all the quali ﬁ cations 
required to sit for the competitive examination for recruitment to the service have been fulﬁ lled.
6.0 Age :
 6.1 Minimum limit - Not less than 18 years
 6.2 Maximum limit - Not More than 30 years
7.0 Method of recruitment to the training grade. – Recruitments will be made on the results of a written test and 
general interview conducted by the Surveyor General. In order of merit of the total marks of the applicant who passed the 
written test, an equivalent number of candidates to the number to which to wish to recruit will be called for the interview 
and qualiﬁ ers will be selected.
7.1 Written Examination.– The examination is a written test consisted of two subjects. This examination will 
be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums and the medium applied for will not be allowed to change 
subsequently.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
808
Subject Total marks which 
can be obtained
Minimum percentage which 
should be obtained for pass
Time
Inteligence Test 100 40% 01 hour
Subject related technological paper 100 40% 02 hours
Syllabus :
 1) Intelligence test
  Consisted of questions to judge the rationality of thinking, analytical ability of thinking and 
ability for making decision of the candidate.
 2) Technological Paper
  Mathematics
  Trigonometry (equations, Solving of triangles)
  Statistics (Mean, Mode, Standard Deviation, Probability)
  Probability
 3) Physics
  Light and optics (Re ﬂ ection and Refraction, Mirrors, Curved Surfaces, Prisms and Formulas of 
Lense optics
 4) Miscellaneous Topics
  Introduction to geography (shape of the earth, topography etc...)
  The angle view of solid substances and derivation of projections
7.2 General Interview.– An interview will be held only to ascertain the quali ﬁ cations and no marks
will be given to the interview.
8.0 Recruitment to the grade III at the end of the training period :
 (1) The candidates those who are enrolled to the training grade will be recruited to the grade III, after 
submitting of the certi ﬁ cate issued to certify pass, after successfully completion of two year diploma 
course of technician, conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyathalawa.
 (2) If there are apprentices who fail to pass the examination held at the end of the training, there is an 
opportunity to them to get it extended their training period for a period not exceeding six (06) months. 
The post of the apprentices, who fail the repeat exam which is held at the end of the period so extended, 
will be terminated.
9.0 P reparation and completion of Application :
 9.1 The application should be prepared by the applicant himself using both sides of paper size 21x29 (A4) as 
per the specimen application appearing at the end of this notice. The application should be prepared so as 
to include No. 01 - 02 on page 01, No. 03 - 09 on page 02, No. 10 - 12 on page 03.
 9.2 Applications should be in the language in which the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination and 
since the medium applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently, they should be completed cor-
rectly.
 9.3 In the applications submitted in Sinhala and Tamil languages, the name mentioned in the topic should be 
also in English language.
 9.4 Signature of the applicant should have been attested in the application. An applicant applying thought 
an institution should get his signature attested by the head of the institution or any of ﬁ cer authorized 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
809
by him. The other applicants should get their signature attested by a Principal of a Government School, 
Justice of peace, sworn commissioner, Public NotaryAuthority, Commissioned ofﬁ cer in the Army, Navy, 
Air Force an ofﬁ cer holding Gazette post in the police service, or an of ﬁ cer holding a permanent post in 
public service in tertiary or senior level as per the grading of Public Admnistration Circular No. 06/2006.
10.0  Submission of applications and Issuance of admissions :
 10.1 All the applications which are not complying with the specimen application, examination fees have not 
been paid before due date and incomplete and of improper ﬁ lling will be rejected without any notiﬁ cation. 
Candidates should bear consequences of improper ﬁ lling of application. It would be useful to retain a 
photocopy of the application. Applicant should check out whether the completed application is conformity 
with the specimen application mentioned in the notice. If not, the application can be rejected.
 10.2 Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged. No complaints regarding lost of applications in the 
post will be considered.
 10.3 On the presumption that only the candidates who have quali ﬁ cations speci ﬁ ed in Gazette notiﬁ cation, 
have applied, Surveyor General will allow all candidates who have paid speci ﬁ ed examination fees and 
submitted application on or before due date, to sit for the examination. The issue of an admission card 
to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite quali ﬁ cations to sit for the 
examination. If it is found at the time of interview that the applicant does not possess the requirement for 
this post, candidature for examination of them will be cancelled.
 
11.0 Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. This fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor 
General ofﬁ ce at No. 150, Kirula road, Colombo 05 or at any of district survey of ﬁ ce or at Institute of Surveying and 
Mapping - Diyathalawa. The receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage in the application form. (It is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with applicant). The fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and cheques will 
not be accepted. Applications without receipts will be rejected.
 12.0 Submission of application :
 12.1 Completed application should be sent by registered post to reach to the following address on or before 
10.04.2019. 
  Surveyor General,
  Examination Branch,
  Survey Department,
  No. 150,
  Narahenpita,
  Colombo 05.
 12.2 The applicants who are already in the public service or provincial public service should submit their 
applications through their heads of the departments and the applicants who are in state corporations, local 
government institutions should submit their applications through their heads of the institution on or before due
date.
 12.3 “Recruitment to the training grade of the post of Litho Technological Ofﬁ cer Open basis” should be clearly 
indicated on the top left hand corner of the  envelope.
, N.B.- The applications receive to the Survey Department after 10.04.2019 will not be accepted in any circumstances.
 13. Furnishing false information.- If it is found that a candidate has no qualiﬁ cations to sit for the examination, his 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate h as 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
810
purposely furnished false information or willfully suppressed any material fact, after the recruitment he or she will be liable
for dismissal from the public service.
14.0 Appearing  for the examination.– Every  candidate  must get his/her signature attested in the admission card 
before the examination.  Attested admission card should be submitted to the supervisor in the examination hall. Otherwise you will 
not be allowed to sit for the examination. Further, a candidate must sit for the examination only at the examination hall assigned
to him.
 15. Identity of a Candidate.– The candidate should prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on
each subject he/she sits for. The following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 I. The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of persons.
 II. Valid passport.
16.0 Decisions will be taken by the Surveyor General regarding any matter not mentioned in this notice. All 
candidates are bound to take action in terms of the rules and regulations prescribed in this Gazette notiﬁ cation.
 P. M. P. U
DAYAKANTHA,
 Surveyor General,
 Surveyor Department.
Survey Department,
Colombo,
On the date of 06th March, 2019.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM 
M
INISTRY OF LAND AND PARLIAMENTARY REFORMS 
SURVEY DEPARTMENT 
Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the post of Litho Technological Of ﬁ cer (Training Grade) of                
Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2019.
The name of the examination mentioned in the topic of the specimen application should be entered in "English" in 
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
For Ofﬁ ce use 
Medium of Examination :
 Sinhala - 1
 Tamil - 2
 English  - 3
 (Write the relevant number in the given cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials using initials at the end :––––––––––––––.
  (In English capital letter) Eg. : PERERA  A. B. C. 
 1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––––.  (In English Block letters)
 1.3 Full Name (In Sinhala/in Tamil)
 1.4 National Identity Card No. : 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
811
 1.5 Date of Birth :  Date : Month : Year :
 1.6 Age as at 10.04.2019 :  Years : Months :  Days :
 1.7 Gender : Female 1
     Male 2
     (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 1.8 Civil Status : Married  Unmarried  
  (Put a tick (
) in the relevant box)
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––––.
  (In English Block Letters)
 2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.3 The Address which admission card should be sent :––––––––––––––.
  (In English Block letters)
 2.4 Telephone Number (If any) :––––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 permanent resident district :––––––––––––––.
 3.2 Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––––.
 3.3 Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––––––––.
4.0 Educational Qualiﬁ cations :––––––––––––––.
  (Certi ﬁ ed copies of relevant certiﬁ cates should be attached) 
 4.1 Details of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
  (i)  Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––––––.
  (ii) Index Number :––––––––––––––.
  (iii) Result :––––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10
 4.2 Details of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination : 
  (i)  Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––––––.
  (ii) Index Number :––––––––––––––.
  (iii) Result :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.0 V ocational/Technical Qualiﬁ cations (Certiﬁ ed copies of relevant certiﬁ cates should be attached) :
  05.1 Degree/Course obtained :––––––––––––––.
  05.2 The name of the institution of which the degree/course obtained :––––––––––––––.
  05.3 Duration of the degree/course :––––––––––––––.
06. Other Quali ﬁ cations :––––––––––––––.
7.0 Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence (Indicate the mark “
” In the relevant cage) :
   Yes   No

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
812
  7.1 If “yes” give details :––––––––––––––.
8.0 If the applicant had previously served in Public/Provincial Public Service and then resigned the reason for such 
resignation  :––––––––––––––.
9.0 Details of payment of examination fees :
 (i) Of ﬁ ce at which the payment made  :––––––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt No. and date  :––––––––––––––.
 iii) Amount paid :Rs . :––––––––––––––.
10.0  Certiﬁ cation of the candidate :
 ( a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I 
agree to bear the loss which can be resulted by incompletion of application and or incorrect ﬁ lling of application. 
Further, I declare that all the sections of this, regard have been completed correctly.
 ( b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to be wrong, I would be considered unﬁ t for the appointment 
and if it is found after the appointment, I would be liable to dismissal from the service.
 ( c) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in 
respect of the examination.
 ( d) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars mentioned here.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .....................................................................................................who is submitting the 
application is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Attestor.
Date  :––––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attestor  :––––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
(By afﬁ xing the ofﬁ cial seal)
12.0 Applicable only for the ofﬁ cers who are already in the Government or semi government institutions :
Attestation of the head of the department/institution
Mr./Mrs./Miss ..........................................................Who submitted this application is serving in this depar tment/
institution from  .................................to ................................... it has not been reported unﬁ nished disciplinary charges against 
him/her. His/Her work, behavior and attendance is satisfactory/unsatisfactory. It is informed that prescribed examination 
fees have been paid and the receipt has been pasted, if he/she selected to the post of ........................................ ... it can be/
cannot be released from the department/institution.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Branch.
Date  :––––––––––––––.
03–977

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
813
DEPARTMENT OF CENSUS AND STATISTICS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of Statistical Ofﬁ cer Grade II of the Department of 
Census and Statistics- 2018 (2019)
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Open Competitive 
Examination conducted by Commissioner General of 
Examinations for recruitment of suitable candidates for 
the post of Statistical of ﬁ cer (Grade II) available in the 
Department of Census and Statistics. This examination 
will be held only in Colombo in June 2019. Applications 
prepared according to the specimen form mentioned 
below should be sent through registered post to reach the 
“Commissioner General of Examinations”, Organization 
and Overseas examination branch, Department of 
Examinations in Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or 
before the date indicated below. Applications received after 
the closing date will be rejected. Name of the examination 
should be mentioned as “Open competitive examination for 
recruitment of ofﬁ cers to Grade II of the post of Statistical 
ofﬁ cer” on top left corner of the cover bearing applications. 
And in Sinhala/Tamil medium applications, the Name of the 
examination should also be indicated in English medium.
Closing date of calling Application is 12.04.2019
Note: Any complaint regarding any delay or loss of 
Application or related letter will not be accepted. 
Damages that may occur due to late applications 
shall be borne by the applicant him/herself.
02. Conditions of the Employment :
 (i) The candidates who are selected will be 
appointed to Grade II, in accordance with general 
conditions of the public service, provisions of the 
Recruitment procedure for Statistical of ﬁ cers, 
Segment 2 - ﬁ eld/ofﬁ ce based ofﬁ cer category of 
the Department of Census and Statistics approved 
by the Public Service Commission, according 
to revisions made or will be made hereafter for 
the above Recruitment procedure, according to 
the provisions of the Establishment Code and 
Financial Regulations and the procedural rules 
of the Public Service Commission published 
in the Extraordinary Gazette  noti ﬁ cation No. 
1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 (ii) Salary Scale : This position is entitled to the 
Salary Scale according to the Schedule 1 of 
Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 
dated 25.02.2016 .MN- 5-2016, Rs. 34,605 
- 10x660- 11x755 - 15x 930 - Rs. 63,460 
(Monthly). Salary shall be paid as per Schedule 
II of the aforesaid circular till 01.01.2020.
 (iii) This appointment is permanent and pensionable. 
You are subjected to any policy formulated by 
the Government in future regarding the pension 
scheme you are entitled to. Further, you should 
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension 
Scheme and you may make your contributions 
as stipulated by the Government in different 
occasions.
 (iv) Of ﬁ cers appointed for this post will be subject 
to a probation period of 3 years.
 (v) First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination should be 
passed within three (3) years of the appointment 
to the post of Executive Grade II.
 (vi) Of ﬁ cers who were appointed to the service in 
languages other than of ﬁ cial languages should 
obtain pro ﬁ ciency in the of ﬁ cial language 
within the probation period. The other language 
proﬁ ciency should be obtained in terms of 
Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and 
its’ related circulars.
 (vii) Attention of the candidates are drawn to general 
conditions related to appointments made 
for public service positions published at the 
beginning of the paragraph (iiw) section 1 of this 
Gazette notiﬁ cation.
03. Eligibility :
 I. Applicant should be a Sri Lankan citizen
 II. Applicant should possess an excellent character 
and as per paragraph V of Public Service 
Commission procedural rules published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary of Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009 ,should not be a disqualiﬁ ed person.
 1. Age limit.- Between 21 and 35 years of age 
as at application closing date. (Accordingly, 
only applicants who are born on or before 
12.04.1998 and on or after 12.04.1984 are 
eligible to apply for this examination”)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
814
 III. Physical qualiﬁ cation :
 (i) All the candidates should be willing to work 
in any part of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should possess physical and mental ﬁ tness 
to discharge his/her ofﬁ cial duties.
 IV . Educational Quali ﬁ cations: A Degree from a 
University recognized by University Grants 
Commission including at least one of the following 
subjects: Statistics, Mathematics, Economics, 
Computer Science, Information Technology, 
Demography, Geography or Sociology.
Note.– All required quali ﬁ cations for the post 
must be completed before the closing date of 
applications as mentioned in the notiﬁ cation.
04. Selection method.–  Applicants will be called for a 
general interview according to the order of marks obtained 
starting from the highest marks and based on number of 
vacancies the Director General of Department of Census and 
Statistics wish to ﬁ ll in. Applicants who are called for the 
interview will be veriﬁ ed for their qualiﬁ cations mentioned 
in this noti ﬁ cation however won’t be offered any marks 
during the interview. After veri ﬁ cation of quali ﬁ cations at 
the interview, applicants those who are selected only based 
on skills order of marks obtained in the written test will 
be appointed for the (Syllabus of the Open Competitive 
Examination for Recruitment of Statistical ofﬁ cer- Grade II 
is indicated under No. 05-II)
05. Examination procedure :
 I. Subjects, medium and pass marks of the 
examination: Recruitment examination is a 
written test consisting of 2 question papers with 
following subjects. To qualify from the written 
test, one should obtain at least 40% marks for 
each subject. The examination will be held in 
Sinhala, Tamil, and English language. Answers 
for both question papers should be given in one 
language.
  ( a) Aptitude test
  ( b) General knowledge
 II. Syllabus :
  Aptitude: Time duration 1 hour .Total marks 
100. In this paper the applicant is tested 
for his/her logical thinking ability. This 
paper consists of multiple choice and short 
answered questions. Answers should be 
provided to all questions.
  General knowledge : Time duration 1 hour.
Total marks 100. This paper aims to assess 
the knowledge of the applicants on nationally 
and internationally signiﬁ cant current events 
and new scientiﬁ c and technological ﬁ ndings. 
This paper consists of multiple choice and 
short answered questions. Answers should 
be provided to all questions.
 III. Candidates will not be allowed to change the 
language medium indicated in the application 
subsequently.
 IV . Commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to all the applicants who 
have applied for the examination. However, 
Issuing of admission card should not be regarded 
as acceptance of the candidate as having 
fulﬁ lled all required quali ﬁ cations to sit for 
the examination or to appoint for the post. All 
candidates are bound to comply with the rules 
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examination with regard to the 
conducting of this examination .Candidates will 
be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
 V . Head of Department is authorized to postpone or 
cancel the examination.
06. Application method :
 I.  Application form should be prepared using A4 
size paper of 22x29cm including 01 to 06 heads 
in the ﬁ rst page, 07 to 13 heads in the second page 
and rest in the 3 rd /4lh page. The applicant should 
ﬁ ll the application form in his/her own clear hand 
writing. Incomplete and applications that are not 
perfected according to the specimen form will be 
rejected without notice. It will be useful to keep a 
photocopy of the application with the applicant. 
Applicants should make sure that the completed 
application is in accordance with the specimen 
form mentioned in the noti ﬁ cation else your 
application will be rejected.
 II. Examination fee is Rs. 1,200.00. The examination 
fee could be paid at any Post of ﬁ ce or Sub post 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
815
ofﬁ ce, District Secretariat of ﬁ ce or Divisional 
Secretariat Ofﬁ ce located in any part of the country 
to be credited to the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 
of Commissioner General of Examinations and 
the receipt obtained by the name of the applicant 
should be properly af ﬁ xed on the speci ﬁ ed 
space in the application. It is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant.
 III. Money orders or stamps are not accepted as 
examination fees and under any circumstances 
this fee will not be refunded or transferred to any 
other examination.
 IV . For of ﬁ cers serving in Public Service, Provincial 
Public Service or Government Corporations 
it is compulsory to forward their applications 
through head of the Department/Institution. 
Despite of producing applications through Head 
of the Department/Institution, if received after the 
closing date will be rejected.
 V.  Attestation of the signature of the applicants : It 
is compulsory for every applicant to attest their 
signature in the application form. Ofﬁ cers serving 
in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service/ 
Government Corporations should con ﬁ rm their 
signature through head of the Department/
Institution. Applications without the signature 
and of ﬁ cial stamp will be rejected. Of ﬁ cers 
other than above should con ﬁ rm their signature 
through a principal from public school, Justice of 
Peace, Commissioner for oaths, Notary at Public, 
Attorney-at-Law, Authorized Of ﬁ cers of Forces 
or a Permanent Staff Grade of ﬁ cer employed in 
the Government, Provincial Public service or a 
Chief Incumbent of Viharaya or a Priest of other 
religions.
07. Admission Card :
 (i) Commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to applicants who have 
sent duly completed application forms with 
examination fee receipt af ﬁ xed on or before the 
closing date on the presumption that applicants 
possess all the requirements speci ﬁ ed in the 
Gazette noti ﬁ cation. A paper notice will be 
published by the Department of Examination 
immediately after issuing admission cards. If not 
received the admission card within two or three 
days after the paper notice, it should be inquired 
by the Organization and Foreign Examination 
Branch of Department of Examination of Sri 
Lanka as mentioned in the noti ﬁ cation with 
information such as name, address, National 
Identity Card number of the applicant and name 
of the examination applied. If the applicant 
is residing out of Colombo, it will be more 
appropriate to send the above details with 
a request letter through the fax number as 
mentioned in the noti ﬁ cation, slating your fax 
number in the request letter to receive a copy of 
the admission card through fax expeditiously. 
In such instances, it would be advisable to keep 
ready the copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt of Examination fees paid and the receipt 
of the application posted through register cover 
to conﬁ rm some information that may require by 
the Examination Department.
 (ii) Every applicant should attest their signature 
in the application and Admission card and the 
certiﬁ ed admission card should be produced to 
the Supervisor of the Examination hall on the 
ﬁ rst day of the Examination.
 (iii) Applicant won’t be informed when applications 
are received.
08. Identity of the Applicant.– All candidates should prove 
their identity as to satisfy the supervisor in charge of the 
examination centre. Only one of the following documents 
will be accepted:-
• National Identity Card.
• Valid Passport.
• Valid driving license.
09. Applicants who are selected from the written 
examination should produce the following documents at the 
interview:-
• Birth Certi ﬁ cate;
• Degree Certi ﬁ cate and other Educational 
Certiﬁ cates ;
• School leaving certi ﬁ cate (or Character certiﬁ cate 
obtained from an accountable person) and a 
character certi ﬁ cate obtained from a lecturer 
or an of ﬁ cer ranked above holding permanent 
post in University academic staff.(Applicants 
holding permanent positions in the public service 
at the moment, may not need to produce these 
certiﬁ cates).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
816
• Certi ﬁ cates of the Professional Quali ﬁ cations (if 
any);
• Certi ﬁ cate of the most advanced examination having 
passed Sinhalese/Tamil English Languages.
N.B. :
(a) Should not enclose any document to the application 
form other than paying receipt.
(b) Applications of the applicants who fail to produce 
the documents when requested will be disregarded.
10. False information.–  If the applicant is proved of 
not having proper quali ﬁ cations, the candidature of the 
applicant can be cancelled before the examination or during 
the examination or after examination or any other occasion. 
After the recruitment, if any given information is proved false 
or if a signiﬁ cant matter is purposefully hidden and if proved 
his/her ineligibility at the time of examination, the applicant 
may be dismissed from his/her service immediately. Further, 
if the applicant does not satisfy all the above requirements, 
candidature of the applicant will be cancelled.
11. Decisions related to this recruitment and matters 
other than above will be taken by the Director General of 
Department of Census and Statistics.
12. In case of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil 
and English texts of this noti ﬁ cation, Sinhala texts shall 
prevail.
 I. R. B
ANDARA,
 Director General,
 Department of Census and Statistics.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF 
STATISTICAL OFFICER GRADE II OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CENSUS 
AND STATISTICS - 2018(2019)
 Index No. : 
 (For of ﬁ ce use only)
The medium expected to appear for the examination : 
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil  - 3/English - 4)
(Write the relevant number in the box)
01.  1.1 Full Name :–––––––––––––.
   (In English Block Letters)
  1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––––.
   (In Snhala/Tamil)
02.  2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
   (In English Block Letters)
  2.2 Address to which the admssion should be sent       
   :–––––––––––––.
   (In English Block Letters)
03.  3.1 Sex : 
   Female - 1
   Male - 0 
   (Write down the relevant number in the box)
  3.2 Date of Birth : 
    Year Month Date
04. National Identity Card No. : 
05. Mobile :
 Fixed :
06.  Nationality (Put a tick (
) in the relevant box) :
Sinhala Indian Tamil
Sri Lankan Tamil Malay
Muslim Other
07. Residential District :–––––––––––––.
 Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––––.
08. Fees paid (It is advisable to keep a copy of the receipt) :
 Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
 Amount :–––––––––––––.
 Post of ﬁ ce/Sub post ofﬁ ce, District/Divisional 
   Secretariat Of ﬁ ce :–––––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––––.
Afﬁ x the receipt here
09. The highest pass obtained for each language : (Please mention 
the name of the examination) :
 Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
 Tamil :–––––––––––––.
 English :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.03.2019
817
10. Educational Quali ﬁ cations :
 Details of the degree :–––––––––––––.
Degree Institute Pass Subjects Valid 
Date
 Other Educational Quali ﬁ cations :
Course Institute Subject details
11. Other Quali ﬁ cations :–––––––––––––.
12. Details of the cur rent employment and previous employments :
Institution Designation From To Salary 
(Monthly)
13. Have you been accused of any criminal offence ? If so please 
indicate the details :–––––––––––––.
1 do hereby certify that the information furnished by me 
in this application is true and correct. 1 am aware that if any 
of these particulars have been found false or incorrect prior 
to the selection, lenders me as disqualiﬁ ed and that if found 
subsequently to the appointment I will be dismissed without 
any compensation. Also, I declare hereby that I agree to 
be bound by the lules and regulations of the Examination 
and the decisions taken by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations regarding the conduct of the examination.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the Applicant’s Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................
who is forwarding this application is personally known 
to me and that the receipt for the payment made has been 
pasted and put his/her signature before me.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attesting Of ﬁ cer and 
 the of ﬁ cial stamp.
Name 
 :–––––––––––––.
Designation  :–––––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––––.
Date  :–––––––––––––.
• Attestation of the applicant’s signature should be done 
in accordance with paragraph 06 (V) of the application 
calling notiﬁ cation.
• When the applicant is employed in a government 
Department/ Institution, the application shall be 
forwarded through the Head of the Department or the 
institution along with the certiﬁ cate below.
15. The Certiﬁ cate of the Head of Department :
Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................................................................
is currently working in our department as a permanent/
temporary/casual employee. I hereby certify that he/she has 
not been subject to any disciplinary punishment (except for 
a warning) and the information furnished in this application 
is accurate. Also I certify that his/her work and behaviour 
are satisfactory and possess the quali ﬁ cations as per the 
Gazette notiﬁ cation to sit for this examination and has paid 
the relevant examination fee and has attached the receipt. If 
selected he/she can be/can't be released from the service.
 –––––––––––––––,
 The signature of the Head of Department/ 
 Institution.
Name 
 :–––––––––––––.
Designation  :–––––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––––.
Date  :–––––––––––––.
03–1039
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.