

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1875$39 - 2014 wf.daia;= ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'08'15
No. 1875/39  -  FRIDAY,  AUGUST   15,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
MINUTE OF  THE  COMBINED  DRIVERS’  SERVICE  FOR  MOTOR  VEHICLE  DRIVERS
IN  THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE
THE  Minute on the Combined Drivers’ Service in respect of Motor V ehicle Drivers in Public Service mentioned below is
hereby published in substitution for the service minute without prejudice to any action which has been taken or purported
to be taken under the Minute of the Combined Driver’s Service for Motor Vehicle Drivers which was effective from 01st of
October 1999 and published in the Gazette Extraordinary of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 1101/9 dated
13th October 1999 or revisions made to the Minute from time to time.
On the order of Public Service Commission.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Colombo,
15th August 2014.
1. Effective Date : This service minute shall come into force with effect from 01.07.2013.
2. Appointing Authority : Director General of Combined Services Formal letters of appointment shall be issued
by the Director General of Combined Services.
3. Service Category : Primary - skilled
4. Duties assigned : A service category consists of holders of a valid driving license issued by the
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic for the performance of transport activities
which are essential to perform and maintain the tasks entrusted to an institution.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
4.1 Assignment of duties : Assignment of duties shall not be made on grade basis and the Head of the Department
shall assign any duty from among the duties assigned to this service category, to an
officer in any grade on the service requirement and on the basis of seniority and
skills.
5. Salaries : 5.1 Salary code number (PL 3 - 2006 A)
5.2 Salary scale : (Rs. 12,470 - 10 x 130 - 10 x 145 - 10 x 160 - 12 x 170 - 18,860/-)
5.3 Initial salary step relevant to Grading system
Grade Initial Salary Step Initial Salary Scale
III Step 01 Rs. 12,470/-
II Step 12 Rs. 13,915/-
I Step 22 Rs. 15,380/-
Special Grade Step 32 Rs. 16,990/-
6. Posts belonging to the service :
6.1 Approved designations, Grades to which posts are approved : Driver III, II, I and Special.
6.2 Combined Cadre : 5831
For the purpose of grading promotions, Grade III, II, I and Special Grades shall be treated as belonging
to combined cadre.
6.3 Nature of the post/posts : Permanent and pensionable.
7. Method of recruitment :
7.1 Ratios applicable for recruitment :
Stream Percentage
Open 100%
Limited -
Merit -
7.2 Recruitment under open stream :
7.2.1. Recruitment Grade : Grade III
7.2.2. Qualifications :
7.2.2.1. Educational Qualifications :
Shall have passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six subjects at least with two credit
passes including Sinhala/Tamil language at not more than two sittings.
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications :
(1) Shall have possessed a valid driving license issued by the Commissioner-
General of Motor Traffic with regard to driving of private/hiring cars and station
wagons tare of which less than 24 CWT. (A driving license in vehicle Class C and
C1 or a driving license in Class B under new procedure shall have been obtained
at least before three (03) years from the date of recruitment)
(2) Shall have a fair knowledge on the Highway Code.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
7.2.2.3 Experience :
Shall possess 3 years experience as a driver of Motor vehicles. (The experience
shall be Proved by certificates).
7.2.2.4 Physical Fitness :
Shall be the minimum height of 5 ft
Shall be of sound physical health and good eye sight so as to perform duties
during day and night. This should be proved by a proper certificate issued by a
government medical officer.
7.2.2.5 Other qualifications :
1) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
2) Applicant shall bear an excellent moral character.
3) Shall have completed all qualifications in such manner which are required for
the recruitment to the post, mentioned in 7.2.2 and 7.2.3 on the prescribed date as
per the notification/Gazette.
7.2.3. Age :
7.2.3.1 Minimum age limit : shall be not less than 18 years of age.
7.2.3.2 Maximum age limit : Shall  be not more than 45 years of age.
Note : Maximum age limit shall not be applicable for those who already hold permanent
and pensionable posts in Public Service.
7.2.4. Method of recruitment :
Recruitment shall be made through a Trade test and general interview.
7.2.4.1 Written examination : Not applicable
7.2.4.2 Trade test :
Subjects Maximum marks Pass marks
(i) Competence in driving 40 20
(ii) Practical knowledge of highway rules 40 20
(iii) Basic knowledge on motor mechanism 20 10
7.2.4.2.1 Authority conducting the Trade Test :
A Board of Examiners approved by the Director General of Combined
Services on the recommendation of the Secretary to the relevant Ministry.
The examination for the recruitment shall be conducted by an interview
board consisting of not less than three officers mentioned below :
(i) An Executive Officer of the relevant Department as a representative.
(ii) An Examiner of Motor Vehicles from the Department of Motor Traffic.
(iii) An officer from Police Traffic Division.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
7.2.4.3 General interview :
Objectives which are expected to be achieved :
Verification of basic qualifications required for recruitment. No marks shall be
allocated.
7.2.4.3.1 Appointing authority of the general interview board : Director General of
Combined Services on the recommendation of the Secretary to the relevant
Ministry.
7.2.4.4 Structured interview : Not applicable
7.2.5. Method for calling applications :
Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the government Gazette or publishing
public notices or in the web site.
7.3 Recruitment under limited stream : Not applicable
7.4 Recruitment on merit : Not applicable
8. Efficiency Bar Examination :
8.1
Efficiency Bar Examination At what point the officer is Nature of Efficiency Bar
required to pass the Examination Written test/
Efficiency Bar Trade test/Certification
course/Others
First Efficiency Bar Before the lapse of three Practical test on skills and
Examination (03) years from the date of oral test (Appendix 01)
recruitment to Grade III
Second Efficiency Bar Before the lapse of three Practical test on skills.
Examination (03) years from the date of (Appendix 02)
promotion to Grade II
Third Efficiency Bar Before the lapse of five Practical test on skills.
Examination (05) years from the date of (Appendix 03)
promotion to Grade I
8.2 How often will Efficiency Bar examination be held : Twice a year
8.3 Authorities conducting the tests relevant to Efficiency Bar : A board of examiners appointed by the
Director General of Combined Services.
9. Language Proficiency :
Language Proficiency to be a cquired
Official Language Officers who have joined the service in a language other than an
official language shall acquire proficiency in one of the official
languages during the period of probation.
Other Official Language Shall acquire the proficiency at the relevant level as per Public
Administration Circular 07/2007 and subsequent circulars.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
10. Grade Promotions : Following method of promotion which is based on performance shall be implemented.
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1. Promotion on average performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be completed
(i) Shall have been confirmed in the post.
(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten
(10) years in Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.
(iii) Shall have shown a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of
ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure.
(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period during the five (05) years
immediately prior to the date of promotion.
(v) Shall have obtained the proficiency in other official language in relevant level.
(vi) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on prescribed date.
(vii) Shall have possessed a licence for driving light Lorries which are up to 34cwt of
tare weight and buses which has the capacity to carry not more than 32 passengers
in each. (Shall have possessed a licence in categories A1 and C1 or categories B
and D1 under new driving licence)
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
When an officer who has completed the required qualifications made a request for promotion
to the Director General of Combined Services by using the prescribed specimen form along
with the recommendation of the Head of Department and Secretary to the Ministry, the promotion
to Grade II will be made with effect from the date on which the officer had completed
qualifications after these qualifications are examined by the Director General of Combined
Services.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1. Promotion on average performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be completed
(i) Shall have completed a minimum of nine years an active and satisfactory period of
service in Grade II of the service category and earned nine (09) salary increments.
(ii) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion.
(iii) Shall have shown a satisfactory or higher performance during the period of nine
(09) years immediately prior to the date of promotion as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure.
4 – PG  2143

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
(iv) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on prescribed date.
(v) Shall possess a certificate of competence issued by the commissioner of Motor
Traffic for driving heavy motor vehicles, heavy trailers and omnibuses licensed for
transporting more than 32 passengers and tare of which are more than 34cwt.
(Shall have a license in category A or in category D under the new driving license.)
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion
When an officer who has completed the required qualifications makes a request for promotion
to the Director General of Combined Services by using the prescribed specimen form of
application along with the recommendation to the Head of Department and Secretary to the
Ministry, the promotion to Grade I shall be made effective with effect from the date on which
the officer satisfied qualifications after verifying these qualifications by the Director General of
Combined Services.
10.3 Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade
10.3.1 Promotion on average performance
10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be completed
(i) Shall have completed a minimum of nine years an active and satisfactory period of
service in Grade I of the service category and earned nine (09) salary increments.
(ii) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period during the five (05) years
immediately prior to the date of promotion.
(iii) Shall have shown displayed satisfactory or higher performance of nine (09)
years immediately prior to the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure.
(iv) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on prescribed date.
10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion
When an officer who has completed the required qualifications made a request for promotion
to the Director General of Combined Services by using the prescribed specimen form of
application along with the recommendation of the Head of Department and Secretary of the
Ministry, the promotion to Special Grade shall be made effective with effect from the date on
which the officer satisfied qualifications after verifying these qualifications by the Director
General of Combined Services.
Note :
The date of promotion of officers who are unable to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination as
at the prescribed date as per the average performance shall be delayed equivalent to the
delayment passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
11. Conditions applicable to service : An officer appointed to Grade III of the service shall be subjected to a probation
period of three (03) years, and at the end of such period he shall be confirmed
in the service, if his works, conduct and attendance are satisfactory and he
has passed First Efficiency Bar Examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
12. Definitions :
12.1 The term of “Service Minute” means the Minute of the Combined Drivers’ Service in public service.
12.2 The term of “Service” means the service of motor vehicle drivers in Public Service.
12.3 “Period of Satisfactory Service” defines as per the Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission.
12.4 The terms of “Period of Active Service” means the actual period served by the officer engaged in
duties assigned to him and drawing salary relevant to the post. The all periods on no - pay leave,
except for maternity leave approved by the government shall not be calculated for the period of active
service.
13. Absorption as per the Grading system : This shall be applicable only for the officers who are in service as at the
effective date of this Service Minute. All officers to whom salaries are drawn under salary
scale PL - 03 - 2006 - A - determined by Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 and the
subsequent circulars shall be absorbed subject to the provisions in Section 4, Chapter VII of
the Establishments Code as follows.
Period of service shall be calculated considering the date of appointment to the each posts.
However, no change shall occur to the date of salary increment of the person concerned due
to the absorption and the date shall remain as the date of salary increment held before the
absorption. Furthermore, the relevant person shall not be placed on the next salary step in
terms of section 4.4 Chapter VII of Establishment Code, on becoming equivalent to the last
drawn salary step at the salary conversion.
As at the effective date of the new service minute,
(i) Officers in Class II “B” of Combined Drivers’ Service shall be absorbed into
Grade III.
(ii) Officers Class II “A” of Combined Drivers’ Service shall be absorbed into
Grade II.
(iii) Officers Class I of Combined Drivers’ Service shall be absorbed into Grade I.
(iv) Officers who have completed a satisfactory service period of nine (09) years in
Class I of Combined Drivers’ Service and have earned nine (09) salary increments
and have fulfilled the other service requirements shall be absorbed into Special
Grade.
14. Interim Provisions :
14.1 The officers who have been  appointed to Class I under the old Service Minute as at the effective date
of the Service Minute shall be exempted from the requirement of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
14.2 As far as officers who are already in service are concerned, a concessionary period of three (03) years
shall be granted from the effective date of this Service Minute to comply with the provisions of this
Service Minute. However, they are required to possess the qualification prescribed in new Combined
Drivers’ Service Minute within the above period. For this purpose, qualifications shall mean the
passing of Efficiency Bar Examinations.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
15. Other matters :
15.1 Conditions stipulated in the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission publilshed in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and provisions of Establishments Code shall be
applicable for each appointment.
15.2 Public Service Commission shall determine any matter not provided for in this Minute.
15.3 For the purpose of recruitment, employment in service, disciplinary and other establishment matters,
the provisions of Establishments Code/provisions made by Public Service Commission shall be
applicable.
15.4 All officers are subjected to transfers. They shall be bound to serve in any part of the Island.
15.5 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Service Minute,the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Appendix 01
01. Name of the Examination : First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Combined Drivers’ Service.
02. Particulars of the Examination : A practical and oral test on competency
Subject Field Total Marks Pass Marks
Practical Test on competency 50 20
Oral Test 50 20
Total 100 40%
03. Authority for conducting the examination :
Practical Test on competency :
By an interview board consisted of the following officers, who are appointed by the Director General of Combined
Services :
(i) An executive officer of the relevant Department as the Chairman.
(ii) An Examiner of Motor Vehicles of the Department of Motor Traffic.
(iii) An officer of Traffic Police Division
Oral test :
By an interview board consisted of the following officers, who are appointed by the Director General of Combined
Services :
(i) An executive officer of the relevant Department as the Chairman.
(ii) An ex ecutive officer from a Department outside the relevant Department.
04. How often will Efficiency Bar Examination be held : Twice a year

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Subject Field Syllabus
Practical Test on Competency 1. Practical knowledge on traffic rules
2. Basic knowledge on motor mechanism
Oral Test
1. Knowledge on provisions in Probation period, Efficiency Bar Examinations,
Establishments Code and over time allowances, leave, railway warrants, channels
Procedural Rules of correspondence, general conduct and discipline
2. Knowledge on using and * Duties and responsibilities of motor vehicle drivers
maintaining public vehicles * Responsibilities of a driver in respect of maintenance
and protection of public vehicles
* Daily running charts
* Maintenance of vehicle inventory
* Vehicle repairing and servicing
* Accidents to public vehicles and action that should be
taken in respect of accidents.
Note : All subjects of Efficiency Bar Examinations should be passed at one sitting.
Appendix 02
01. Name of the Examination : Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Combined Drivers’ Service.
02. Particulars of the Examination : A practical and oral test on competency
Subject Field Total Marks Pass Marks
Practical Test on competency
1. Practical knowledge on highway laws 50 20
2. Basic knowledge on motor mechanism 50 20
Total 100 40%
03. Authority for conducting the examination : A board of interview appointed by the Director General of Combined
Services consisting of the following officers :
(i) An executive officer of the relevant Department as the Chairman.
(ii) An Examiner of Motor Vehicles of the Department of Motor Traffic.
(iii) An officer of Traffic Police Division
04. How often will Efficiency Bar Examination be held : Twice a year

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.08.2014
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Subject Field Syllabus
1. Practical knowledge on highway rules It shall be measured as to whether the competency in the
2. Basic knowledge on motor mechanism field of the officer has been improved to suit to the seniority
in response to the changes occurred in the procedural and
legal aspects in these field during the past service period.
Appendix 03
01. Name of the Examination : Third Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Combined Drivers’ Service.
02. Particulars of the Examination : A practical test on competency
Subject Field Total Marks Pass Marks
Practical Test on competency
1. Practical knowledge on highway laws 50 20
2. Basic knowledge on motor mechanism 50 20
Total 100 40%
03. Authority for conducting the examination : A board of interview appointed by the Director General of Combined
Services consisting of the following officers.
(i) An executive officer of the relevant Department as the Chairman.
(ii) An Examiner of Motor Vehicles of the Department of Motor Traffic.
(iii) An officer of Traffic Police Division
04. How often will Efficiency Bar Examination be held : Twice a year
05. Syllabus of the Examination :
Subject Field Syllabus
1. Practical knowledge on highway laws It shall be measured as to whether the competency in the
2. Basic knowledge on motor mechanism field of the officer has been improved to suit to the seniority
in addition to the knowledge on highway code and motor
mechanism and whether the officer has acquired a sufficient
knowledge on the tasks entrusted to the institution where
he served.
08 - 1059
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA