

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of February 23, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 27.02.2017)
ASSOCIATION OF TRADITIONAL OFFICIALS OF THE
ALL ISLAND HISTORICAL DEVALA
(INCORPORATION)
BILL
to incorporate the Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Dr.) Thusitha Wijemanne,
M. P.  for Kegalle District

<!-- page 2 -->

1Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ASSOCIATION OF TRADITIONAL
OFFICIALS OF THE ALL ISLAND HISTORICAL DEVALA
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala” has heretofore been established in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out it objects
and transacting all matters connected with the said
Assocaition according to the rules agreed to by the  members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters  for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Association of
Traditional Officials of the All Island Historical Devala
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2017.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Association of Hereditary Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala” (hereinafter  referred to as the “the
Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the corporation hereby constituted, shall a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala” (hereinafter  referred to as the “the
Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with
full  power and authority to have, and use a common seal and
alter the same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
2—PL 005017 - 300 (02/2017)
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Association
of Traditional
Officials of
the All Island
Historical
Devala.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to take steps to safeguard and continue with the
ancient and unique traditions/rites and rituals/
customs/practices and duties/ religious activities of
the Devala belonging to each of them;
(b) to protect the hereditary rights of the hereditary
officials of the historical Devala and making
necessary interventions;
(c) to extend co-operation of the Association as a
mediator in legal or any other problematic situations
faced by any member;
(d) to exchange the knowledge among the members; and
(e) to work with the Government in relation to the
activities of the Devala as an Association when the
need arises.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the  provisions of this Act, management
and administration of the affairs of the Corporation shall be
carried out by a Board of Management (hereinafter referred
to as the “Board”) consisting of such number of office bearers
as may be specified by the rules made under Section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of the Association holding office on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporation until
the first Board is appointed or elected in the manner provided
for by rules made under section 7.
10
5
15
20
25
General
objects of the
Corporation.
Corporation to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department of
the Government
or Province.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of two years and any such office bearer, patron or adviser
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of two years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.
6. Subject to the  provisions of this Act any other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform and
execute all such acts and matters as are necessary or desirable
for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purposes of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expendient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
4
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain, and close accounts
in any bank;
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation,in such manner
as the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to  pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation; and
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from  time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
10
5
15
20
25
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
and voting to make such rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal expulsion or resignation of members and
fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board,
vacation  or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and holding of meeting of the Board or any sub-
Board thereof, noties and agenda of such meeting,
the quorum the conduct of business thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the Board and the Corporation ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) generally the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects
and dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended
altered, added, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The member of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
10
5
15
20
25

<!-- page 7 -->

Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
6
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
the Auditor General or a qualified auditor appointed by
Auditor General in terms of  Article  154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of  this section, “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
10
5
15
20
25
Accounts and
audit.
Register of
members.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
(b) a firm of accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by such
Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Ministry of Buddha Sasana and Religious Affairs and to
the Registrar of Voluntary Social Services Organizations
appointed under the Voluntary Social Services Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before
the expiration of six months of the year succeeding the year
to which such report relates.
(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the Corporation during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in
sub section (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of, the
same.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Annual
Report.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
10
5
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 9 -->

Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
8
14. The money and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those Corporation, and which is  by the rules thereof,
prohibited from distributing any income or property, among
its members.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
5
15
20
25
Application
of moneys
and property.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island
Historical Devala (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .