

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2260$60 – 2021 foieïn¾ ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2021'12'30
No. 2260/60 – THURSDAY, DECEMBER  30, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 035716 –16 (2021/12)
 My No: id.s$j;=/1/2021.
THE INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES ACT CHAPTER   131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Kurunegala Plantations Limited (Clerical Staﬀ ), No. 80, Dambulla Road, 
Kurunegala of the One Part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ  s Union,  No.06,  Aloe  Avenue,  Colombo  03  of the Other Par t 
on 20th November 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 0 6 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the 
Legislative  Enactments  of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
20th December, 2021.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 2A
Collective Agreement No.  1 of 2021
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT  - CLERICAL STAFF
This Collective Agreement entered into between  the  Kurunegala  Plantations  Limited having its Registered Oﬃ  ce at No.80 
Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of the First Part, and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s’ Union of No.6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the 
Second Part, made and  entered into on the  20th of November, 2020  witnesseth as follows:
1. Title – 
This Agreement shall be known as the Kurunegala Plantations Limited Collective Agreement for Clerical Staﬀ .
2. Employers Covered and Bound –  
This Agreement shall bind the management of the Kurunegala Plantations Limited, whose name is mentioned as First Part 
for and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound –  
This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid  trade union, hereinafter referred  to as the union, and members of the 
said union who are employed by Kurnegala Plantations Limited on  monthly contract of employment as at the date of 
signing (20th November, 2020), and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule I hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements –
The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the 
existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by the Commissioner General of 
Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, if the matter is not resolved the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled 
to take trade union action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration –
Subject  to  any  provisions  to  the  contrary,  this  Agreement  shall be  eﬀ ective  from  01st August, 2020 to 31st July, 2023 
and shall thereafter continue in force unless  terminated by  either  party  giving  notice  of  termination  in terms  of  the  
Industrial  Disputes  Act, subject  to  the  condition  that  no  party  shall  give  notice  to  the  other  before  31st  July, 2023.
6. General Terms and Conditions –
 i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement  shall only come into force on the 1st August 2020 and 
shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from 
the said date.
 ii.  Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion o f the Employer.
 iii. All Chief Clerks will be re-designated as Administrative Oﬃ  cers.Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service 
under the same employer, Chief Clerks/ Administrative Oﬃ   cers upon completion of a Diploma or equivalent 
Qualiﬁ cation accepted  by  the  management  with  outstanding perfor mance shall be re-designated as Special 
Grade Administrative Oﬃ  cers with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 iv. Upon completion  of  10 years  satisfactory  service  unde r  the  same employer, Junior Clerk shall be re-designated 
as Clerk, with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 v. Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what  is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy the same.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 3A
7. First Appointment –
 i. No person will  be  recruited to a grade covered  by  this  Agreement  unless he has successfully completed the 
C.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic / Mathematics. This will not apply to those 
who have experience  in  the trade.
 ii. All designation of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule 1 hereof.
 iii. Storekeepers are to be placed in a grade that  is compara ble to those in the Clerical Grade on Salary applicable to 
Clerks.
8. Probation –
On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation  of not more than six months, subject to the right of 
the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further pe riod of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactorily performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ  able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the 
event of the probationary period not being extended after the p eriod of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be 
conﬁ rmed not withstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation 
the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasons therefore.
9. Attendance at Work –
Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by the Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at 
the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions –
 i. Wherever, vacancies exist, all other factors being comparab le, seniority shall be  given preference.  The  Employers 
shall advertise  internally vacancies where employees covered b y this Agreement may have appropriate skills 
and qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.
 ii Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period o f 6 months and if he is conﬁ  rmed in the senior 
capacity, he will not be required to serve a period of probatio n.
 iii Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting A llowance of Rupees Two Thousand Five 
Hundred (Rs. 2,500/-) per mensem. When conﬁ  rmed, this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 iv When promoting an employee to a senior position, a salary i ncrease of minimum one (1) increment shall be 
granted.
 v Employees who obtain a work related course certiﬁ  cate from NIPM or any other reputed institutions, as approved 
by the management, shall be granted special increments with rei mbursement of course fee and to be considered 
for a higher position. Reimbursement of such course fees will b e as per the prevailing company policy for its 
employee higher education.
 vi Overlooking periods shall not exceed  6 months and during t hat period the employer shall pay the employee 
Rs.4,000/- per month as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential 
beneﬁ ts such as EPF and ETF. However depending on the requirement o verlooking period may exceed 6 
months at the discretion of the management.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 4A
11. Salaries –
 1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with eﬀ ect from 01st August, 2020 
shall be as follows:
 i The present Rs. 7,800/- paid as cost of living allowance sha ll be included to the basic salary,
 ii With eﬀ  ect from 1st August, 2020, the salaries (Basic salary + Cost o f living allowance) of all employees in 
employment shall be increased by twenty percent (20%) based on last drawn salary. Provided, however in 
respect of the period 01st August, 2020 to 31st October, 2020 i t is hereby agreed that the said increase will 
be regarded as notional arrears (without any consequential bene ﬁ ts such as EPF, ETF, Overtime etc,
 iii Employees under this agreement are eligible to receive bonuses /incentives given by the Kurunegala Plantations 
Limited or under the guidelines issued by Treasury/ Relevant Au thorities,
 iv Both parties agreed to consider the eﬀ  ect of budgetary salary/Allowances increases within the period  of 01st 
August, 2020 to 31st July, 2023 at the time of signing new agre ement in 2023,
 v Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in the  scale will continue to receive annual increments 
if they continue to remain within the same category,
 vi In the case of Stenographer/Clerical staﬀ   and Storekeeper/Clerical staﬀ   who are entitled to an allowance 
on account of work as a Stenographer or storekeeper, as the cas e may be, such employee shall continue to 
receive his/her allowances at the rate of 12.5% of the salary d rawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be 
payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deeme d necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF 
shall be made in respect of this allowance,
 vii In terms of  the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule 1 
of this Agreement,
 viii Subject to the provisions set out in Clause 6 (1) above, the Kurunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound 
shall pay the revised salaries in the month of August 2020 with  arrears as per Clause 11 (ii).
 2. Staﬀ   Quarters :
 i With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ  
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment descri bed below:
   Junior Clerk    = Rs. 1250/-
   Clerk/Storekeeper   = Rs. 1350/-
   Senior Clerk    = Rs. 1550/-
   Administrative Oﬃ   cer   = Rs. 1700/-
   Special Grade Administrative Oﬃ   cer = Rs. 1850/-
 ii Kurunegala Plantations Limited under take to maintain the s taﬀ  quarters provided to them on request of 
relevant employees.
 iii In the event of any person not occupying a habitable quart ers provided by the Employer such person shall be 
liable to disciplinary action.
12. Annual Increments –
 i Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completi on of a year's service. The increments will 
be awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each e state. Where increments are awarded on a 
uniform date to all employees, in the event of an employee bein g conﬁ rmed in service within six months of 
the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible 
only from the following year.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 5A
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way o f punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after 
the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss  of increment shall 
be continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period re levant to the stoppage.
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to  all employees in employment in accordance with 
the practice prevailing on each estate. (Each year January & July)
 Present E ﬀ ective
  2021
 Junior Clerk Rs. 200/- Rs. 350/-
 Clerk/Storekeeper Rs. 250/- Rs. 400/-
 Senior Clerk Rs. 300/- Rs. 450/-
 Admin Oﬃ   cer Rs. 400/- Rs. 550/-
 Special Grade Admin Oﬃ   cer  Rs. 700/-
13. Hours of Work and Overtime –
If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. 
Each hour of overtime work shall be calculated as per the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act.
14. Weekly and Poya Holidays –
 An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays on Saturday ha lf (1/2) day and Sunday full day as provided in the shop 
& oﬃ  ce employees Act. Payment for work on such days shall be remunerated at the prescribed statutory rates.
15. Statutory Holidays –
 All employees covered by this agreement will be entitled to st atutory holidays as provided in the Shop & Oﬃ   ce 
Employees Act.
 Tamil Thai Pongal Day
 National Day
 Day prior to Sinhala & Tamil New Year
 Sinhala & Tamil New Year Day
 May Day
 Day following Vesak Full Moon Poya Day
 Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi)
 Christmas Day
 Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated accordi ng to the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees 
Act.
16. Leave –
 1.  Annual Leave :- 14 day shall be granted as prescribed in the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act. All employees 
with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid annual leave 
as a special beneﬁ t. This right shall not extend to any employees recruited after 1993.
 2.  Casual Leave :- All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full 
pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried 
over to the next year. 
 3. (i) Sick Leave :- Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maxumum of 21 working days in a year. Sick Leave will be 
granted up to two days at a time without  the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over,  

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 6A
a medical certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, 
subject to the right of the employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.
  (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, 
which he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness, in a succeeding year, subject to the condition 
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account. Provided however this facility 
shall not be applicable those who obtain payment on un-availed Sick Leave According to company policy at the end 
of each year.
  (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit  a higher quantum of sick leave he/she be permitted to 
continue to enjoy such consession as personal to him/her.
 4.  Maternity Leave :-
  (i) Maternity leave will be as per the provisions of the Shop  & Oﬃ  ce Employee's Act. Accordingly, 84 working 
days of maternity leave will be granted on a live child birth.
  (ii) Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary,  upon employees request, until the age of six months 
to the infant.
  (iii) Paternity leave of 2 days will be granted to the father  of the child.
17. Administrative Transfers –
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will subject to 
the exigencies of the services and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management 
with one month's notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division t o another which are likely to cause hardship on account of 
children's schooling or the spouses employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three (3) calendar 
month's notice in writing on or before 30th September.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL exa mination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred in that 
particular year.
 iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitte d to Grade 01 in School will be considered.
 v Transfers from  one Plantation District to another, which ar e likely to cause hardship on account of children's schooling, 
or the spouse's employment will be considered.
 vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred,  except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to 
his retirement.
 vii Employees whose children are sitting for Year 5 scholarshi p exam will be considered.
 viii The provisions of Sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) , (vii) and (viii) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary 
grounds, but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
18. Age of Retirement –
 i Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higer retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 year s and will 
be applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 7A
19. Discipllinary Inquiries –
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pend ing an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance 
of business need to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general 
manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discip linary investigation and inquiry, where the Management 
deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause ' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer 
or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable  
amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in 
exceptional circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and 
where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer 
shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working 
days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received. Unless circumstances prevent the 
employer from doing so.
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to def end him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be 
a professional. If the employee wishes to have the beneﬁ t of a such representation he shall inform the Superintnedent 
of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent 
may object to the individual selected in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The 
failure of an employee to be defended by a representatve shall not vitiable the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working 
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall the 
ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case 
of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not 
apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, whe re the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily. In such event the letter of ternination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justﬁ cation for 
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
20. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries –
 i An employee may be suspended from work without pay foa a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against 
him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 ii Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub- clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month 
shall be on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above  shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cations.
21. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment –
 i Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 8A
 ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay s hall only be after a domestic inquiry.
22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes–
 i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to 
any of the terms and conditions of employment except by mutual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t, which is over and above the normal entitlement shall continue to enjoy the same as 
personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption 
of electricity, where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement s hall be resolved  by reference to the Commissioner General 
of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settelement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collec tively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to 
any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. Duty Leave –
 i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union will 
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the P resident and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent Union, 
as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Kurunegala Plantations Limited will attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable settlement 
between parties.
 iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave 
in any one year.
 
 iv By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days each 
in any one year.
 v By arrangement with their respective Employers Branch Chairm an and Sub Branch Chairman of the Union shall be 
allowed twelve days Duty leaves which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries on condition that thet 
total leave availed jointly by these two oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any ony year.
 vi Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the un ion to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the 
union or any other labour related institute on not more than two occasions in a year for a period not exceeding for (2) 
days.
 vii Two days duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the union from each estate on the basis of one representative 
per estate to attend the delegates session bi- annually.
 PART II
1. Amalgamation & Sub Leasing –
The Kurunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound by this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve 
any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such 
situations. However, Kurunegala Plantations Ltd will continue t o be the emoloyer of such employees.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 9A
2. Electricity –
Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ   on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been 
enjoying in the past.
   Senior staﬀ   - 140 units
   Junior staﬀ   - 100 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months o n the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each 
estate.
3. Kerosene –
Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those e mployees resident on estates/divisions without 
electricity.
4. Death Grant –
 i With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ  member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rs.100,000/- 
as fuuneral expenses.
 ii The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within 
one month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the  time the dependents hand over the staﬀ   
quarters.
 iii If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 
months' salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ   member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme –
  The Employer's contribution will be 10% of the Basic salary t o the medical fund
6. Coconut Allowance –
  The Employer shall provide 40 Coconut to members of estate st aﬀ  (including future recruits) at a cost of Rs. 1 per 
nut irrespective of what they had been enjoing in the past.
7. Insurance Scheme –
 The employer agrees to provide a personal Accident cover insur ance scheme covering all staﬀ  members employed in 
estates under their management.
8. Union Subscription –
 i The Employer agrees on the written request of an employee to deduct from the wages due to such employee, 
the current monthly union subscription as speciﬁ ed by the employee to be payable monthly by the employee to 
the union and remit the amouunt so deducted to the union by the  following month, till such time the employee 
maintains his request.
 ii In the event of the union being representative of less than  40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of 
check - oﬀ  would be made thereafter.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 10A
9. Festival Advance –
All employee will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/- interest free a dvance, before two weeks in respect of their festivals, 
which will be recovered in 10 equal installments. Any future re vision will be on mutual agreement. 
INTERPRETATION
 Word   Meaning
 Union   means the union referred to as the Party of the Second  part in this Agreement
 Dispute   shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dis putes Act.
 Employer  means the Kurunegala Plantations Limited
 Week   means the period between midnight on any Saturday and m idnight on the  
  succeeding Sunday night
 Year   means a continuous period of 12 months
 Gender   a reference to the masculine gender shall include the  feminine as well
In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Kurunegala on this 20th day of November 2020

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 11A
SCHEDULE I
CLERICAL STAFF - SALARY RANGES
     PRESENT  REVISED  ANNUAL
     SALARY  SALARY  INCREMENT  
        RANGE 
  
Junior Clerk    Rs. 19508.00 
Add COLA    Rs.   7800.00
Total     Rs. 27308.00  Rs. 32800.00  Rs. 350.00
Clerk/Storekeeper   Rs. 19720.00  
Add COLA    Rs.   7800.00
Total     Rs. 27520.00  Rs. 33000.00  Rs. 400.00
Senior Clerk     Rs. 19933.00
Add COLA    Rs.   7800.00
Total     Rs. 27733.00  Rs. 33300.00  Rs. 450.00
Administrative Oﬃ  cer   Rs. 20914.00
Add COLA    Rs.   7800.00
Total     Rs. 28714.00  Rs. 34500.00  Rs. 550.00
Administrative Oﬃ  cer      Rs. 35500.00  Rs. 700.00
(Special Grade)
EOG 12-0337
  My No.: id.s$j;=$3/2021.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131  
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Kurunegala Planta tions Limited (Maintenance & Support Staﬀ ), No. 80, 
Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of the One Part and the Ceylon Estate  Staﬀ s Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the 
Other Part on 20th November 2020 is hereby published in terms o f Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, 
of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
20th December, 2021.
Collective Agreement No.  3 of 2021
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - MAINTENANCE & SUPPORT STAFF
The Collective Agreement entered into between the Kurunegala Plantations Limited having its registered Oﬃ  ce at No. 80, 
Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of the First Part, and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the 
Second Part, made and entered into on the 20th of November 2020 witnesseth as follows:

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 12A
1. Title –
This Agreement shall be known as the Kurunegala Plantations Lim ited Collective Agreeement for Maintenance & 
Support Staﬀ .
2. Employers Covered and Bound –  
This Agreement shall bind the management of the Kurunegala Plan tations Limited, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst 
part for and in respect of the categories of employees hereinaf ter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound –  
This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid trade union, hereinafter referred to as the union, and members of 
the said union who are employed by Kurunegala Plantations Limit ed on monthly contract of employment as at the 
date of signing (20th November 2020), and in respect of whom sa lary ranges are prescribed in Schedule I hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements –
The provisions of this Agrement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditi ons. In the event of there being any dispute with regard 
to the existence of any other term or condition not contained h erein, the same shall be resolved by the Commissioner 
General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, if t he matter is not resolved the party of the Second Part 
shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis o f the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration –
Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreeement shal l be eﬀ ective from 1st August 2020 to 31st July 2023 
and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by eit her party giving notice of termination in terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party  shall give notice to the other before 31st July 2023.
6. General Terms and Conditions –
 i The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st August 2020 
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employme nt of those covered by this Agreement with 
eﬀ ect from the said date.
 ii Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what  is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue 
to enjoy same.
 iii Granding of employees covered shall be at the discretion o f the Employer.
 iv Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, shall be placed on Grade 01, with 
a minimum of one (1) increment
7. First Appointment –
 i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreem ent unless he/she has required 
 knowledge and experience in the trade.
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed in Schedule 1 hereof.
8. Probation –
On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation  of not more than six months, subject to the right 
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further  period of three months at his discretion for reasons 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 13A
of  unsatisfactorily performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ  able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in 
the event of the probationary period not being extended after t he period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed 
to be conﬁ rmed notwithsatanding there being no letter of conﬁ  rmation. During the period of probation or extended 
probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate withou t notice or assigning reasons therefor.
9. Attendance at Work –
Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by his Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than  a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and 
at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain availabl e for work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions –
 i Wherever vacancies exits, all other factors being comparable , seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by  this Agreement may have appropriate skills 
and qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.
 ii All employees covered by this agreement Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same 
employer, shall be placed on Grade 01, with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 
11. Salaries –
 1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with eﬀ ect from 01st August 2020 shall 
be as follows:
 i The present Rs. 7,800/- paid as cost of living allowance sha ll be included to the basic salary.
  
 ii With eﬀ  ect from 1
st August 2020, the salaries (Basic salary + Cost of living allowance) of all emploess in employment 
shall be increased by twenty percent (20%) based on last drawn salary. Provided, however in respect of the period 
1st August 2020 to 31st October 2020 it is hereby agreed that the said increase will be regarded as national arrears 
(without any consequential beneﬁ ts such as EPF, ETF, Overtime etc.
 iii  Employees under this agreement are eligible to recive bon uses / incentives given by the Kurunegala plantations       
limited or under the guidelines issued by Treasury / Relevant Authorities.
 iv Both parties agreed to consider the eﬀ  ects of budgetary salary / Allowances increases within the per iod of  01st 
August 2020 to 31st July 2023 at the time of signing new agreement in 2023.
 v Employees who reach the maximum salary points depicted in th e scales will continue to receive annual increments 
if they continue to remain within the same category.
 vi In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule I 
of this agreement.
 vii  Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, t he Kurunegala Plantations Limited convered and bound 
shall pay the revised salaries in the month of August 2020 with arrears as per Clause 11 (ii).
 2 .  Staﬀ  Quarters:
 i With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ   
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below:

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 14A
 Lorry / Tractor Driver Rs. 1050/-
 Car Driver Rs. 1050/-
 Blacksmith Rs. 1050/-
 Carpenter Rs. 1050/-
 Engine Driver Rs. 1050/-
 Welder Rs. 1050/-
 Mechanic / Motor Mechanic Rs. 1050/-
 Electrician / Forman Rs. 1050/-
 Backhoe Operator Rs. 1050/-
 Creche Attendant / CDO Rs. 1050/-
 Pre School Teacher Rs. 1050/-
  
 ii Kurunegala Plantations Limited under take to maintain the s taﬀ  quarters provided to them on request of relevant 
employees.
 iii In the event of any person not occupying a habitable quart ers provided by the Employer such person shall be 
liable to disciplinary action.
  
12. Annual Increments –
 i Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completio n of a year's service. The increments will be 
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform 
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on 
which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increments and will become eligible only from 
the following year.
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way o f punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after the 
employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, 
whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to  all employees in accordance with the practice prevailing on 
each estate. (Each year January & July).
  Present  E ﬀ ective from  Grade 1
    2021
 Lorry / Tractor Driver Rs. 200.00  Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Car Driver Rs. 200.00  Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Blacksmith   Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Carpenter   Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Engine Driver   Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Welder   Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Pre School Teacher   Rs. 350.00  Rs. 450.00
 Mechaic / Motor Mechanic   Rs. 450.00  Rs. 550.00
 Electrician / Forman   Rs. 450.00  Rs. 550.00
 Backhoe Operator   Rs. 450.00  Rs. 550.00
 Creche Attendant / CDO   Rs. 450.00  Rs. 550.00
  
  All employees on completion of 10 years of service shall be p laced on Grade 1 as per Clause 6 (iv)
13. Hours of Work and Overtime –
 i The decisions of the relevant Wages Board shall apply.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 15A
 ii If required by his Employer, an employee shall work reasona ble overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. 
Rates of overtime shall be according to the decision of the relevant Wages Board.
14. Weekly and Poya Holidays –
   An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays and half hol idays as per the relevant Wages Board decisions.
15. Statutory Holidays –
   All employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to the following 8 holidays.
 Tamil Thai Pongal Day
 National Day
 Day prior to Sinhala and Tamil New Year
 Sinhala and Tamil New Year day
 May Day
 Day follwing Vesak Full Moon Poya Day
 Holy Prophet's Birth Day (Milad-Un-Nabi)
 Christmas Day
 Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated according to the relevant statutory rates.
16. Leave –
 1. Annual Leave - Employees presently enjoying 14 days Annual Leave shall continue to do so. Others will receive annual 
holidays in accordance with the relevant Wages Board decision applicable to them.
 2. Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay, not 
more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next 
year.
 3. i Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick Leave. will be granted 
up to two days at a time without  the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over,  a medical 
certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the right 
of the employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementiioned, where he deems it appropriate.
  ii In the event of an employee not availing himself of his fu ll quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which he 
could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness, in a succeeding year, subject to the condition however that 
he cannot avail himself of more than 90 working days on that account. Provided however this facility shall not be applicable 
those who obtain payment on un-availed Sick Leave According to company policy at the end of each year.
  iii In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permitted to continue 
to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
 4. Maternity Leave - 
 
 (i) Maternity leave will be as per the provisions of the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employee's Act. Accordingly, 84 working days 
of maternity leave will be granted on a live child birth.
 (ii) Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary, upon employees request, until the age of six months to the 
infant.
 (iii) Paternity leave of 2 days will be granted to the father of the child.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 16A
17. Administrative Transfers  -
 i Transfers not involving hardship In relation to schooling of  children or employment of a spouse, will subject to the 
exigencies of the services and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with 
one month's notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another which are likely to ca use hardship on account of children's schooling or the spouse's 
employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three months' notice in writing.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred in that particular 
year.
 iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitte d to Grade 01 in School will be considered.
 v Transfers from  one Plantation District to another, which ar e likely to cause hardship on account of children's schooling, or 
the spouse's employment will be considered.
 vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred,  except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his 
retirement.
 vii Employees whose children are sitting for year 5 scholarshi p exam will be considered.
 viii The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, 
but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
18. Age of Retirement  -
  Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higer retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 year s and will be 
applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
19. Disciplinary Inquiries  -
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pen ding an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of  the peace, damage to property or disturbance of 
business need to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner 
of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discip linary investigation and inquiry, where the Management 
deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause ' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him 
and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Where 
necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable  amount of time depending on 
the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and where 
appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer shall hold 
a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days from the 
date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received. Unless circumstances prevent the employer from doing 
so.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 17A
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to def end him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall 
not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the beneﬁ  t of a such representation he shall inform the 
Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. 
The Superintendent may object to the individual selected., in which event the accused employee may nominate 
another representative. The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not  vitiate the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 
30 working days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no 
case shall the ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conc lusion of the inquiry, save and 
except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the 
above exception does not apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, whe re the circumstances so warrant, terminate an 
employee summarily. In such event the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the 
justiﬁ cation for summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate 
forum.
20. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries –
 (i) An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a p eriod not exceeding one month, pending a 
disciplinary inquiry when there is a primafacie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges 
of misconduct against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 (ii) Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in su b-clause (i) above for any period in excess of one 
month shall be on half pay.
 (iii) The provisions contained in sub-clause (i) and (ii) abov e shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cations.
21. Suspension as a measure of punishment –
 1. Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
 2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay s hall only be after a domestic inquiry.
22. Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Disputes –
 (i) Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or 
add to any of the terms and conditions of employment except by mutual consent.
 (ii) Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t, which is over and above the normal entitlement shall contin ue to enjoy the 
same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to 
the consumption of electricity, where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 (iii) Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement  shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration 
thereafter.
 (iv) It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, coll ectively or independently, or their members, shall not 
resort to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by the Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. Duty Leave –
 (i) Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the  President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 18A
 (ii) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the  President and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Kurunegala Plantations Limited will attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable 
settlement between parties. 
 (iii) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer o f the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.
 (iv) By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days 
duty leave which may be shared, on condition that the total lea ve availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents 
shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 (v) By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Cha irman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days 
duty leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed 
jointly by these two Oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 (vi) Duty leave shall be granted to one employee per estate se lected by the Union to attend seminars and workshops 
conducted by the union or any other labour related institute on not more than two occasion in a year for a period 
not exceeding (2) two days.
 (vii) Two days duty leave shall be granted to employees select ed by the union from each estate on the basis of one 
representative per estate to attend the delegates session bi-annually.
PART II
1. Amalgamation and Sub Leasing
  The Kurunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound by this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve 
any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amlgamation/ sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such 
situation. However, the Kurunegala Plantations Limited will continue to be the Employer of such employee. 
2. Electricity
  100 units Free electricity would be granted to members covere d by this agreement irrespective of what they had been 
enjoying in the past.
 Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each 
estate.
3. Kerosene Allowance
 Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions without electricity. 
4. Death Grant
 (i) With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ  member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rs. 100,000/- 
as funeral expenses.
 (ii) The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within 
one month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependents hand over the staﬀ  quarters.
 (iii) If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 
months’ salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ  member.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 19A
5. Medical Aid Scheme
  The Employer’s contribution will be 10% of the basic salary t o the medical fund.
6.  Coconut Allowance
  The Employer shall provide 40 Coconuts to members of estate s taﬀ  (including future recruits) at a cost of Rs. 1 per nut 
irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
7. Insurance Scheme
  The employer agrees to provide a personal accident cover insu rance scheme covering all staﬀ  members employed in 
estates under their management.
8. Union Subscription
 (i) The Employer agrees on the written request of an employee to deduct from the wags due to such employee, the 
current monthly union subscription as speciﬁ ed by the employee to be payable monthly by the employee to th e 
union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by the following month, till such time the employee maintains 
his request.
 (ii) In the event of the union being representative of less th an 40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of 
check-oﬀ  would be made thereafter.
9. Festival Advance
  All employees will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/- interest fre e advance, before two weeks in respect of their festivals, 
which will be recovered in 10 equal installments. Any future revision will be on mutual agreement.
INTERPRETATION
  Word Meaning
 Union means the union referred to as the Party of the Second P art in this Agreement
 Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act
 Employer means the Kurunegala Plantations Limited
 Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the
  succeeding  Sunday night
 Year means a continuous period of 12 months
 Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the f eminine as well

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 20A
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Kurunegala on this 20th day of November 2020.
SCHEDULE I
MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT STAFF - SALARY RANGES
  Present  Add Total Revised Annual Gr. 1
  Salary COLA Salary Salary Increment
     Range
 Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
Lorry/Tractor Driver 18,770.00 7,800.00 26,570.00 31,800.00 350 .00 450.00
Car Driver 18,664.00 7,800.00 26,454.00 31,800.00 350.00 450.00
Blacksmith    31,800.00 350.00 450.00
Carpenter    31,800.00 350.00 450.00
Engine Driver    31,800.00 350.00 450.00
Welder    31,800.00 350.00 450.00
Pre School Teacher    31,800.00 350.00 450.00
Mechanic/Motor Mechanic    31,800.00 450.00 550.00
Electrician/Foreman    31,800.00 450.00 550.00
Backhoe Operator    31,800.00 450.00 550.00
Creche Attendant/CDO    31,800.00 450.00 550.00
EOG 12 – 0338


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 21A
My No.: id.s$j;=$2/2021.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Kurunegala Planta tions Limited (Oﬃ  cer in Charge Grade), No. 80, 
Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of the One Part and the Ceylon Estate  Staﬀ s Union, No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of 
the other part on 20th November 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industri al Disputes Act, Chapter 
131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
20th December, 2021.
Collective Agreement No. 2 of 2021
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - OFFICER IN CHARGE
This Collective agreement entered into between the Kurunegala P lantations Limited having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 80, 
Dambulla Road, Kurunegala of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ 's Union of No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the 
Second Part, made and entered into on the 20th of November 2020 witnesseth follows:
1. Title –
  This Agreement shall be known as the Kurunegala Plantations L imited Collective Agreement for Oﬃ  cer-in-Charge.
2.  Employers Covered and Bound –
  This Agreement shall bind the management of the Kurunegala Pl antations Limited, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst 
part for and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.
3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound –
 This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid trade union,  hereinafter referred to as the union, and members of 
the said union who are employed by Kurunegala Plantations Limit ed on monthly contract of employment as at the 
date of signing (20th November 2020), and in respect of whom sa lary ranges are prescribed in schedule I hereon.
4. Earlier Agreement –
  The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditi ons. In the event of there being any dispute with regard 
to the existence of any other term or condition not contained h erein, the same shall be resolved by the Commissioner 
General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, if t he matter is not resolved the party of the Second Part 
shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis o f the existence of any such alleged term or condition.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 22A
5. Date of Operation and Duration –
 Subject to any provisions to the contray, this Agreement shall  be eﬀ ective from 1st August 2020 to 31st July 2023 
and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by eit her party giving notice of termination in terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party  shall give notice to the other before 31st July 2023.
6. General Terms and Conditions –
 i The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st August 2020  
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect 
from the said date.
 ii Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer
 iii Upon completion of 10 years service satisfactory under the same employer, Oﬃ  cer In charge shall be re-designated 
as Senior Oﬃ  cer in Charge with a  minimum of one (1) increment.
 iv Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer, Senior Oﬃ  cer in charge upon 
completion of a Diploma or equivalent Qualiﬁ cation accepted by the management with outsatanding performace 
shall be re-designed as Special Grade Senior Oﬃ  cer in Charge with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 v Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue 
to enjoy same.
7. First Appointment –
 i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agree ment unless he has successfully completed the G.C.E. 
(Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have 
experience in the trade.
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ  ed under Schedule 1 hereof.
8. Probation –
 On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probatio n of not more than six months, subject to the right of 
the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further pe riod of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactorily performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ  able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the 
event of the probationary period not being extended after the p eriod of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be 
conﬁ rmed notwithstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation 
the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasons therefor.
9. Attendance at Work –
 Unless otherwise speciﬁ  cally instructed by his Employer and such instructions not bei ng of a permanent nature, an 
employee shall present himself for work on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at 
the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions –
 i  Wherever, vacancies exist, all other factors being comparab le, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and 
qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible. 
 ii Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period o f 6 months and if he is conﬁ  rmed in the senior 
capacity, he will not be required to serve a period of probation.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 23A
 iii Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting A llowance of Rupees Two Thousand Five 
Hundred (Rs. 2,500/-) per mensem When conﬁ rmed, this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 iv When promoting an employee to a senior position, a salary i ncrease of minimum one (1) increment shall be 
granted.
     v Employees who obtain a work related course certiﬁ  cate from NIPM or any other reputed institutions, as approved 
by the management, shall be granted special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered 
for a higher position. Reimbursement of such course fees will be as per the prevailing  company policy for its 
employee higher education.
 vi Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months and during th at period the employer shall pay the employee 
Rs. 4,000/- per month as an overlooking allowance. During the o verlooking period employees will receive 15 
liters of fuel allowance. This functional allowance shall not a ttract any consequential beneﬁ ts such as EPF. and 
ETF. However depending on the requirement overlooking period ma y exceed 6 months at the discretion of the 
management.
11. Salaries –
1. The salaries payble to the employees covered and bound by th is agreement with eﬀ ect from 01st August 2020 shall 
be as follows:
 i  The present Rs.7,800/- paid as cost of living allowance shall be included to the basic salary.
 
 ii  With eﬀ  ect from 1
st  August 2020, the salaries (Basic salary + Cost of living allowa nce) of all employees in 
employment shall be increased by twenty percent ( 20% ) based o n last drawn salary. Provided, however in 
respect of the period 1 st  August 2020 to 31 st October 2020 it is hereby agreed that the said increase will be  
regarded as notional arrears (without any consequential beneﬁ ts such as EPF, ETF, Overtime etc.
 iii Employees under this agreement are eligible to receive bon uses/ incentives given by the Kurunegala 
plantations limited or under the guidelines issued by the Treasury / Relevant Authorities.
 iv. Both parties agreed to consider the eﬀ  ects of budgetary salary increases within the period of 1st August 2020 
to 31st July 2023 at the time of signing new agreement in 2023.
 v. Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in th e scales will continue to receive annual 
increments if they continue to remain within the same category.
 vi In the case of Oﬃ   cer In Charge / Storekeepers who are entitled to an allowance  on account of work as 
Storekeeper, such employee shall continue to receive an allowances at the rate of 12.5% of the salary drawn 
by him/her The allowances shall not be payable if the additiona l duties are not preformed or not being 
necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.
 vii  In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule 
1 of this Agreement.
 viii Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Karunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound 
shall pay the revised salaries in the month of August 2020 with arrears per clause 11 (ii).
2. Staﬀ  Quarters:
 (i) With eﬀ  ect from date hereof, Employees covered by this agreement are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ  
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment described below:

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 24A
 O ﬃ   cer In Charge = Rs. 1650/-
 Senior Oﬃ   cer In Charge = Rs. 1750/-
 Special Grade Oﬃ   cer In Charge = Rs. 1850/-
 (ii) Kurunegala Plantations Limited under take to maintain the  staﬀ  quarters provided to them on request of 
relevant employees.
 (iii) In the event of any person not occupying a habitable qua rters provided by the Employer such person shall be 
liable to disciplinary action.
12. Annual Increments –
 
 i Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year’s service, The increments will 
be awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each e state. Where increments are awarded on a 
uniform date to all employees, in the event of an employee bein g conﬁ rmed in service within six months of 
the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible 
only from the following year.
  ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general ineﬃ  ciency, after 
the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall 
be continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
  iii Revised Annual Increments shall be paid as stated below t o all employees in accordance with the practice 
prevailing on each estate.(Each year January & July)
   Previously Eﬀ  ective from
    2021
  O ﬃ   cer In Charge Rs. 300 Rs. 450
  Senior Oﬃ   cer In Charge R.s 400 Rs. 550
  Special Grade Oﬃ   cer In Charge  Rs. 700
13. Hours of Work and Overtime –
  i The working week shall be 6 days of 48 hours. One day each week shall be allowed as an oﬀ  day. Work on 
the weekly oﬀ  day or in excess of 48 hours per week or 9 hours per day shall be deemed to be overtime.
  
  ii If required by an employer, an employee shall work reasona ble overtime which has been authorized by the 
employer. Each hour of overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly rate by Two Hundred & 
Forty (240) multiplied by one and a half (1
  1/2 ) 
 
14. Weekly and Poya Holidays –
  The working week Shall be 6 days or 48 hours. One day each we ek shall be allowed as oﬀ  day. Work on the weekly oﬀ 
   day,  statutory holiday shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 (two hundred forty) multiplied
   by 1   1/2  (one and half) times.
15. Statutory Holidays –
  All employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to f ollowing statutory holidays:
  Tamil Thai Pongal Day
  National Day
  Day prior to Sinhala & Tamil New Year

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 25A
  Sinhala & Tamil New Year Day  
  May Day
  Day following Vesak Full Moon Day 
  Holy Prophet’s Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi)
  Christmas Day
  Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated accord ing to the relevant statutory rates.
  The Union agreed to forfeit its right to 5 days of religious leave hitherto enjoyed by the employees.
16. Leave–
  1. Annual Leave - Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the ﬁ rst year the leave 
entitlement shall be on a proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of 
Department shall be entitled to three weeks paid annul leave as a special beneﬁ t. This right shall not extend 
to any employees recruited after 1993.
  
 2. Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave 
with full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will 
not be carried over to the next year.
 3. (i) Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick Leave 
will be granted up to two days at a time without the submission  of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of 
three days and over, a medical certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Pracititioner or Government Hospital 
shall be considered necessary, subject to the right of the Empl oyer to call for a medical certiﬁ  cate as 
aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.
  (ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward 
his leave, which he could use in the event of hospitalization, or a prolonged illness in a suceeding year, 
subject to the condition however that he cannot avail himself o f more than 90 working days on that 
account. Provided however this facility shall not be applicable those who obtain payment on un-availed 
Sick Leave according to company policy at the end of each year.
  (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit  a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be 
permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him / her.
 4 .  Maternity Leave
  i) 84 working days of maternity leave will be granted on live  child birth.
  ii) Additional leave will be granted on half month's salary, upon employees request, until the age of six 
months to the infant.
  iii) Paternity leave of 2 days will be granted to the father of the child.
  
17. Administrative Transfers –
  i Transfers not involing hardship in relation to schooling of  children or employment of a spouse, will subject 
to the exigencies of the services and the requirements of the E mployer, be made at the discretion  of the 
Management with one month's notice in writing.
  
  ii Transfers from one eatate to another or from one Division to another which are likely to cause hardship on 
account of children's schooling or the spouses employment shall  generally be made at the end of the year 
with three calendar months' notice in writing on or before 30
th  September.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 26A
  iii  Employees whose children are sittijng for the GCE OL/AL examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred 
in that particular year.
  iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitt ed to Grade 01 in School will be considered.
  v Transfers from one Plantation District to another, which ar e likely to cause hardship on account of children's 
schooling, or the spouse's employment will be considered.
  vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred , except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year 
prior to his retirement.
  vii Employees whose children are sitting for Year 5 scholarsh ip exam will be considered.
  viii  The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) , (vi) and (vii) above shall not apply to transfers on 
disciplinary grounds, but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of 
each case.
 
18. Age of Retirement –
 i Unless the letter of appointment speciﬁ  es a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 yea rs and will 
be applicable to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
19. Discipllinary Inquiries –
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pen ding an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of  the peace, damage to property or disturbance 
of business need to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general 
manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a discip linary investigation and inquiry, where the Management 
deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ' show caus e ' notice setting out the charge of misconduct alleged against 
him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or 
explanation. Where necessary the employee may request futher time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount 
of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional 
circumstances.
  
  iv If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, 
the Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasona ble length of time and shall commence such 
inquiry within 30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause'   letter is received. 
Unless circumstances prevent the employer from doing so.
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be 
a professional. If the employee wished to have the beneﬁ t of a such representation he shall inform the Superintendent 
of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent 
may object to the individual selected. In which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The 
failure of an employee to be defended by a represeptative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 27A
 vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the ﬁ  ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days 
from the date on which the inquiry is concluded unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall the ﬁ ndings 
be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and expect in the case of a pending 
criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the 
accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, whe re the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily. In such event the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justiﬁ cation for 
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum. 
20. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries –
 i  An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of  the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct 
against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 ii Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub- clause (1) above for any period in excess of one 
month shall be on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee 
pending inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cations.
 
21. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment –
 i Punishment for oﬀ  ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provi ded however that such 
suspension shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be writing.
 ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay s hall only be after a domestic inquiry.
22. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes –
 i  Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force o f this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or 
add to any of the terms and conditions of employment except by mutual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ  t, which is over and above the normal entitlement shall contin ue to enjoy the 
same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply 
to the consumption of electricity, where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement s hall be resolved by referrence to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary 
arbitration thereafter.
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collec tively or independently, or their members, shall not 
resort to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
 
23. Duty Leave –
 (i) Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the  President and one other oﬃ  ce bearer of the Parent 
Union will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
  
 (ii) Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the  President and the nominated oﬃ  ce bearer of the 
Parent Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (1) above, the Kurunegala Plantation Limited will attempt to eﬀ ect an 
amicable settlement between parties.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 28A
 (iii) By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer o f the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.
 (iv) By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave each in any one year.
 (v) By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Cha irman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by 
these two Oﬃ  ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 (vi) Duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the union 
or any other labour related institute on not more than two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding for (2) days.
 (vii) Two days duty leave shall be granted to employees selected by the union from each estate on the basis of one representative 
per estate to attend the delegates session bi-annually.
PART II
1. Amalgamation & Sub Leasing –
The Kurunegala Plantations Limited covered and bound by this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve 
any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/ sub leasing of estates/ divisions/ factories prior to such 
situations. However, Kurunegala Plantations Ltd will continue to be the employer of such employees.
2. Electricity –
Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ  on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying 
in the past.
Senior staﬀ  - 140 units
Junior staﬀ  - 100 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months o n the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each 
estate.
3. Kerosene –
Employer shall provide 25 liters kerosene per mensem to those e mployees resident on estates/ divisions without 
electricity.
4. Death Grant –
 i. With eﬀ  ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ  member,  the dependents will be paid a sum of  Rs.100,000/- 
as funeral expenses.
 ii. The dependents of the deceased staﬀ   member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one 
month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependents hand over the staﬀ  quarters.
 iii.    If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ   member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 
months’ salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ  member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme –
The Employer’s contribution will be 10% of the Basic salary to the medical fund.
6. Coconut Allowance –
The Employer shall provide 40 Coconuts to members of estate staﬀ  (including future recruits) at a cost of Rs. 1 per nut 
irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 29A
7. Fuel Allowance –
Employer shall provide 5 liters of petrol per month to all Oﬃ   cers  In  Charge, Senior Oﬃ  cer In Charge and Special 
Grade Oﬃ  cer In Charge for Those who have Motor Bike.
8 Telephone Allowance –
Employer shall pay a telephone allowance of minimum Rs.  300/-  per  month to all Oﬃ  cers In Charge ,Senior Oﬃ  cer 
In Charge and Special Grade Oﬃ  cer In Charge.
9. Insurance  Scheme –
The employer agrees to provide  a personal  Accident cover insu rance scheme covering all staﬀ  members employed 
in estates under their   management.
10. Union subscription –
(i) The Employer agrees on the written request of an employee t o deduct from the wages due to such employee, 
the current monthly union  subscription  as speciﬁ  ed by the employee to be payable monthly by the employee 
to the union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by t he following month, till such time the employee 
maintains his request.
(ii) In the event of the union being representative of less tha n 40%  of  the employees, no remittance in respect of 
check-oﬀ  would be made thereafter.
11 Festival Advance –
All employees will be paid  a sum  of Rs.15,000/-  interest  free  advance,  before two weeks in respect of their festivals, 
which will be recovered in 10 equal installments.  Any future revision will be on mutual  agreement.
INTERPRETATION
 Word Meaning
 Union means the union referred to as the Party of the Second P art in this 
  Agreement
 Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispu tes Act.
 Employer means the Kurunegala Plantations Limited.
 Week means  the period  between  midnight  on any  Saturday an d midnight on the 
  succeeding Sunday night
 Year means a continuous  period of 12 months
 Gender a   reference to the masculine gender shall include the  feminine as well

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'12'30
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.12.2021
 30A
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Kurunegala on this 20th day of November 2020.
SCHEDULE 1
OFFICER IN CHARGE - SALARY RANGE
 
 Present Salary Revised Salary Range  Annual Increment 
Oﬃ  cer In Charge Rs. 18778.00
Add COLA Rs.   7800.00
Total Rs. 26578.00 Rs. 32000.00 Rs. 450.00
Senior Oﬃ  cer In Charge Rs. 19428.00
Add COLA Rs.   7800.00
Total Rs. 27228.00 Rs. 32700.00 Rs.  550.00
Senior Oﬃ  cer In Charge  Rs. 34200.00 Rs.700.00
(Special Grade)
EOG 12-0339
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.