

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
t-09
3rd
N. B.–   (i) Part III of the Gazette No. 2,222 of 01.04.2021 was not published.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...   —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 80
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...    —
                                                                                                         Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.  ...               ––
Notices calling for Tenders   ...  ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
     
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  11th February, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th January 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2022
79 - B 82310- 5,403  (01/2022)
wxl 2"264 - 2022 ckjdß ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'01'21
No. 2,264 - FRiDAy  JANuARy 21,  2022
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Galaha Bhaddrawathie National Bhikkhu Care Centre Trust Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 13, 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

80
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
Provincial Councils Notifications
Sub LAW
Pradeshiya Sabha nivithigala
AccORDING to the powers vested on the Pradeshiya Sabha of the Nivithigala to be read with the clause 122 by the rule 
126 of the Provincial Council Act No. 15 of 1987 and the decision No 04.01.Viii taken by the General meeting of Pradeshiya 
Sabha and agreed on 16.03.2021 and Sub Law of the 2nd section of the Provincial Council Act No 12-1989 Consequential 
Provisions. i Tikiri Banda Kobbekaduwa as the Governor in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council will give my approval 
according to the Clause 123(1) for the said Sub Law and will declare that it will take effect in jurisdiction of the Nivithigala 
Pradeshiya sabha from the date that it will be Gazetted in the Government Gazette.
 T
ikiri Banda koBBekaduwa,
 Governor,
 Sabaragamuwa Provincial council.
On the day of 31st December, 2021
At the provincial council
Sabaragamuwa.
By - LAw ON ReGuLATiNG OF PuBLiC LiBRARieS OF The NiViTiGALA PRADeShiyA SABhA
1.  This by - law shall be the by - law concerning the regulation, supervision and administration of libraries in the 
Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha.
2.  This by - law is enacted by Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha to regulate and manage the public library service by providing 
a variety of resources and services for the educational development, improving reading habits, personal discipline, 
personality development, meeting recreational and creative needs of the people in the Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha.
3.  The Public Library of the Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha consists of the following areas and services to suit the needs of 
the people of the area.
 I.  Lending Section
 II.  Reference Section
 III. children Section
 IV .  Periodical Section
 V .  Newspaper Section
 Vi.  Book Binding Division
 VII. Special collections and Regional collections
 VIII.  Mobile Services
 IX.  Elaborate Services
 X.  Internet Reference Services
4.  There should be a Librarian of Nivithigala Pradeshiya Sabha and the person who is appointed must be responsible for 
Pradeshiya Sabha on well organizing and managing of the Public Library.
5.  The Library Advisory committee (hereinafter referred to as the Library committee) is responsible for the supervision 
and general Administration of the Public Library.
 I. The Advisory committee will consist of the following persons :
•	 The chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
•	 Two members elected from the hon. Members of the Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 3 -->

81
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
t-09
3rd
•	 Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
•	 Librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha
•	 Writers, Authors of the area
•	 Principals who work in schools or retired, in the area
•	 Two teachers of local schools
•	 A Grama Niladhari
•	 A lawyer
•	 State and Cooperation Officers who are retired or currently in service 
•	 Those who are nominated by the chairman / Secretary / Librarian of the Nivitigala Pradeshiya  
 Sabha as defined in section 25 (V) of the By-Law
 ii.  The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the Chairperson of the Committee in his official capacity and shall 
preside at every meeting of the committee. When a chairperson is absent from any meeting, a member elected from 
the members present, shall preside over the meeting.
 III.  The secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha should be the convener.
 IV .  The Librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha, should be the secretary of the committee.
 V .  The quorum must be one third of the membership
 VI.  The member presiding over any meeting has one primary vote and a desicion vote if the number of party and 
opposition vote on any issue is equal.
6.  Obtaining Membership
 I.  Every person who wishes a library services within in the area of Nivithigala Pradeshiya Sabha should apply for 
membership by paying the fee stipulated by the council from time to time and by obtaining applications from the 
librarian and The application should be certified by the following persons as required.
 (a)  If a school applicant, the Principal of the school where he or she is studying
 (b)  Grama Niladhari of the area
 II.  Obtaining Library Membership
 (a)  Should be a resident of the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha or a property owner, for general membership.
 (b)  Grama Niladhari Certification does not apply to a members under 14 years of age.
 (c)  Membership is valid for two years for school children and one year for adults.
 III.  Membership Fees
  Membership Application - Rs. 10.00
  Membership Fee - Rs. 50.00
  Membership Renewal Fee (per year) - Rs. 50.00
 IV .  Guarantees
  A permanent resident who pays assessment tax to the Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha should sign as a guarantor for 
the ordinary members.
  Parent / guardian must sign for the child members as guarantors.
7.  Two passes are issued to a member of the library for borrowing and the members is responsible for each book carried 
by the member.

<!-- page 4 -->

82
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
8.  A book borrowed by a library member must be returned to the Librarian within 14 days from the date of receipt.
9.  in the event of a member failing to return a book to the librarian, within a period of 14 days as mentioned in the section 
08 of the by - law, Rs. 2.00 per day for exceeding the date of return of the book, any late fee or any sum proposed by 
the General Assembly on the recommendation of the Committee shall be subjected to be paid as late fees.
10.  The first reminder letter to the member, after seven days of the expiry of the 14 days period from the book taken away, 
the second reminder letter to the readers who have not handed over the books to the library, after 2 weeks receiving 
the first reminder letter, the third and final reminder will be sent to the concerned reader and the guarantor if he/she 
failed to return the books to the library within two weeks after the guarantor if he/she failed to return the books to the 
library within two weeks after the receipt of the second reminder, as specified in section 8 of the By - Law. in the event 
of failure to deliver after such notice, the relevant member /signatory as a guarantor to that member will be forwarded 
to the Arbitration Board.
11. in case of loss of a book, the value of the book plus an additional 25% departmental fee, 20% bond fee, one time  of 
the value of the book up to fifteen years, double the book price up to 25 years, in case of over 35 years 3 times of the 
value of the books in relation to the printed year according to the rarity of the book and a penalty referred to in a in 
section 09 of the by - law must be paid by the member or guarantor.
12.  in some way or other the member must not damage or deform the borrowed book.
13.  if a member fails to inform the librarian about damage or deformation of a book is intended to be borrowed, the book 
will be concerned as if it was released without causing harm or deformation to the member.
14.  when the librarian decides that a book returned by the member has been damaged or deformed to the point of 
disqualification, the member is liable for the cost of repurchasing the book. After recovery of that book, the damaged 
book - must be stamped “Sold as a damaged Book” and returned to the member.
15.  No member shall alienate a book obtained from the Library
 I.  The membership of any member who violates the provisions of section 14, is canceled.
 ii.  No member shall return to the Library any books he knows of that has been used by somebody who is infected 
or touch disease.
 iii.  when a borrowed book is used by someone suffering from an infected or a touch disease, the book must be 
destroyed and the member should pay the librarian the cost of repurchasing it.
 IV . In the event that a card issued to a member of the lending library is lost by him, he must notify the librarian in 
writing by a letter.
  if the librarian is satisfied that a book has not been taken out of the library, a sub - membership card can be issued 
to the member.
 V .  No duplicate card should be issued by the librarian unless seven days have passed since the day of notification 
of misplacing the card.
16.  when there are disputes between two or more members about which member to give the book, the Librarian must 
resolve that issue.
17.  when a book is requested by a member, it should be issued and if the book has already been issued, the librarian 
should record the names of the applicants in a waiting list and issued, the librarian should record the names of the 
applicants in a waiting list and issue it to the right person when the book is received to the library.

<!-- page 5 -->

83
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
t-09
3rd
 for a book to be disposed of, the Librarian shall take the names of the applicants in a waiting list and hand them over 
to the Library once the book has been issued.
18.  The lending library should be opened from 8.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m. daily, except on Sundays and public holidays and 
a day recommended by the committee for the stock count after notifying members at least 7 days in advance. But the 
dates and times that are opened, may be changed upon the recommendation of the consultative committee.
19. Reference Section
 i.  Reference books should be used with the permission of the librarian after signing in the from of the document kept 
in the Reference division.
 ii.  No library book, magazine or other material issued to them for reading, should be taken outside the reference 
division. however, if the photocopying service is in operation, the arrangement must be made to take photocopies 
to the person who required by paying the required fee on the required pages of the publication under the permission 
and guidance of the librarian.
 III.  Some amount of money stipulated by the Sabha from time on the recommendation of the consultative committee 
can be charged for this photocopying service.
 iV .  Though it is opened from 8.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. daily, the reference section shall be opened to the readers on some 
days and period decided by the general assembly on the recommendation of the committee from time to time.
20.  Reading Room
 i.  Reading room is open from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. or a day ant the period decided by the general assembly on the 
recommendation of the Committee every day when library is opened. Anyone can use the reading Room and make 
use of the services of the reading room by signing the name and  arrival time of the document in the reading room.
 II.  No any newspapers, periodicals, map or other library material belonging to the Reading Room should be damaged.
21.  Photocopy Service.
 if the photocopying service is in operation, the arrangement must be made to take photocopies to the person who 
required by paying the required fee on the required pages of the publication under the permission and guidance of the 
librarian.
 Rs. 3.00 or for one side Rs. 4.00 for double side must be charged as photocopy charges Nevertheless, the Council has 
the power to revise the fee stipulated from time to time on recommendation of the committee.
22.  Audio Visual and Communication Technology Division
 (A) Internet Access
 I.  Rs. 20.00 for thirty minutes and Rs. 40.00 for an hour, must be charged as internet charges. Nevertheless, the 
council shall have the ability to amend the tariff stipulated from on recommendation of the committee.
 ii.  The internet will be available daily from 8.30 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. and from time to time, on the recommendation 
of the committee, the Internet will be provided to the readers on the dates and times decided by the General 
Assembly.

<!-- page 6 -->

84
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
 (B) Electronic Library Service
 i.  A member of the leading library can obtain a CD with a book at once for one of the two membership permits 
issued. A refund of Rs. 50.00 will be deposited in the Library for the cD carried by the members.
 II.  Nevertheless the council has the power to revise the fee stipulated from time to time on recommendation of the 
committee.
 III.  If it is found that a compact disc cD barrowed by a member is damaged, it is legal to have the deposit to charge 
for the less.
23.  Nobody
 i.  Should not behave unruly or make any such harassment in and premises of the Nivithigala public library.
 ii.  Should damage or deform the building, part of it or property is and around premises of the Library do not walk or 
use the library premises after the opening of the Nivithigala public library.
 III.  Should star or roam in the library premises after the period that the library is opened.
 IV .  Should gamble with dice cards in the library premises.
 V .  Disturb the users of the Library by making noise, singing or making anyother noise in the Library’s premises.
 Vi.  Should eat, smoke and use fireworks in the library as it is completely prohibited.
 VII.  Should wear unsuitable clothing and noisy footwear to the library.
 VIII.  Should bring any animal in to the library premises.
 IX.  Should sleep or eat in the library premises.
 X.  Should bring umbrellas, bags, parcels or personal belongings into the library. The outside reack should be used to 
place them.
 XI.  Your attendance must be recorded in the attendance register placed near the entrance to the library every day.
 XII.  Silence should be maintained in the library and all mobile phones should be disconnected in the library.
 Xiii.  Seat reservations can’t be made in the library.
 XIV .  Everyone should be polite so as not to disturb the rest of the library.
 XV .  The librarian or any other person acting under the orders of the librarian under this by - law , shall not be barred.
 XVi.  Someone who had recently been infected with or infected with some infectious or skin infection, or someone who 
has recently treated such a patient, should not enter this public library premises during the period of infection.
24.  Annual Stock surveys
 i.  it is the responsibility of the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha to conduct an annual stock survey every year for 
the library.
 ii.  The annual stock Survey Report should be submitted to the council.
 III.  The recommendations passed by the council shall implemented within two months from the date of the 
conformation of the council.
25.   Any violation of any of the provisions of this by-law is an offense and when any person is found guilty of an offense 
by a court and after being fined and punished. in terms of Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, 
if he shall continue to do so, after making attention on the offence upon written notice by chairperson or secretary or 
of any authorized officer of Pradeshiya sabha, he must be committed to n additional fine as prescribed in Section 122 
(2)  of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

<!-- page 7 -->

85
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
t-09
3rd
26.  Interpretation
 i.  The term “librarian” means a person appointed by the pradeshiya sabha to be in charge of the library, and his 
assistants are also included into it.
 II.  committee means library advise committee
 III.  council means the Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha
 iV .  excellent people mean the well educated intelligent, wise and fame people who live  and perform a significant 
social services in the Nivitigala Pradeshiya Sabha.
 V .  users refer to all persons who use the library.
27. in case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and english versions of this By-Law, the Sinhala text shall be 
prevailed.
01 - 173
Sub-LAW
Pradeshiya Sabha Ayagama
AccORDING to the powers vested on the Pradeshiya Sabha of the Ayagama to be read with the clause 122 by the rule 
126 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the decision No. 06 (1) taken by the General meeting of Pradeshiya 
Sabha and agreed on 11.02.2020 and Sub Law of the 2nd section of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12-1989 Consequential 
Provisions. i, Tikiri Banda Kobbekaduwa as the Governor in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council will declare that it will 
take effect in jurisdiction of the Ayagama Pradeshiya sabha from the date it will be Gazette in the Government Gazette.
 T
ikiri Banda koBBekaduwa,
 Governor,
 Sabaragamuwa Provincial council.
At the Provincial council,
Sabaragamuwa,
On the day of 24th December, 2021.
By-LAwS ReLATiNG TO ADMiNiSTRATiON OF SuB DiViSiON OF LANDS wiThiN The AyAGAMA 
PRADeShiyA SABhA LiMiTS
1.  Authority is given to prepare this by-law by the Sub Section 126 (vi) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
2.  These by-laws are enacted to make provisions for blocking out lands, developing blocked out lands, maintenance, 
regulate, control and administration of the same within the implementation area of housing and Town improvement 
Ordinance in the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha Limits of Sabaragamuwa Province and the matters consequential thereto.
3.  These by-laws are cited as the by-laws relating to administration of blocking out lands within the area of the authority 
of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
4.  every person who is blocking out a land within the area of the authority of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha of 
Sabaragamuwa Province, prior to submit the blocking out plan for approval, should register for that act in the relevant 
Ayagama Pradeshiya sabha where such land is situated.
5.  When applying to register under the 4th paragraph above, should apply using the specimen application in the schedule 
1 hereof.

<!-- page 8 -->

86
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
6.  For the property relevant to the Subdivision for the purpose of registration under this by-law the applicant should 
deposit in the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha an amount equivalent to 50% of the estimated amount of 1% to be paid to 
the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha by the Technical officer for the purposes of section 154(i) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act 
regarding the Development work to be done for obtaining the development License.
7.  every plan for the blocking out of a land situated within the authority are of housing and Town Planning Ordinance of 
the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha Limits should be an approved plan under the housing and Town Planning Ordinance 
and these by-laws.
8.  Any person shall not sale, transfer or advertise in public to sale any plot of land until he obtain a certificate of 
conformity in respect of the approved plan from the chairman under these by-laws and housing and Town Planning 
Ordinance as per the opportune when sub dividing lands situated within the authority area of housing and Town 
Planning Ordinance of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha Limits.
9.  when sub dividing a land for sale which is situated within the authority area of housing and Town Planning Ordinance 
of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha Limits and if the extent of that land is more than one hectare and the extent of 
the smallest plot is less than 40 perches, a plot of land in extent equal to 10% of the land after excluding the area for 
internal roads should be gifted to the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha for common facilities by a proper instrument.
10.  The applicant registered under this by -laws shall,
 a)  develop the internal roads relevant to sub division of a land situated within the authority area of housing and Town 
Planning Ordinance of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha Limits to a proper standard as per the recommendation of 
the Planning committee of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha or a Physical Planning committee and according to 
the instructions given by the chairman,
 b) Develop the internal drainage system connecting to a main water flow to a proper standard as per the instructions 
given by the chairman,
 c) maintain the remaining plots without being nuisance to another party until discard the rights relevant to each plot 
of land,
 d) report to the secretary, regarding considerations of selling land blocks in respect of the actions under Section 154 
of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11.  The secretary shall report to the District Assistant Commisioner of Local Government within one week from the date 
of issuing the Certificate of Conformity by the Chairman, together with a certified copy of recommendation report 
of Planning committee of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha or Physical Planning committee in respect of sub division 
of the relevant land after issue of a certificate of conformity by the Chairman under the housing and Town Planning 
Ordinace regarding a sub division of land.
12.  After receiving confirmation to the sub divided plan, the person applied for registration may apply with a copy of 
it to the district Assistant commissioner of Local Government in order to get the deposited money and the District 
Assistant commissioner of Local Government shall instruct the chairman to release the deposit upon the request of 
the applicant having satisfied actions have been taken place properly regarding the sub divisions.
13.  if the applicant is not fit for confirmation and the applicant himself is ready to take away his application, the deposit 
money should be released on applicant’s request and the relevant registration should be cancelled accordingly.
14.  if the person applied for registration under these by-laws is unabel to get back the deposit under the Section 12 or 13 
above within 3 years from the date of deposit, that money should be credited to the revenue of Ayagama Pradeshiya 
Sabha.

<!-- page 9 -->

87
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'21
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 21.01.2022
t-09
3rd
15.  Breach or violation of any provision of these by-laws is an offence and if convicted by a competent court, the maximum 
fine that may be imposed and if he is violating or breaching the same offence again and again and if convicted by a 
competent court, the Chairman or any other authorized officer may hand over a written notice making attention to 
that violation or breach and if he is continuing the same violation or breach, the maximum additional fine that may be 
imposed per a day of violating shall be the maximum fine and maximum additional fine ordered by respectively sub 
section 2 of section 2 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
16.  A  person who is convicted twice under these by-laws shall be recorded as a black listed person for that activity as a 
person unfit within the authority area of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
17.  unless the context otherwise requires “Chairman” means the “Chairman of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha”, 
“Secretary” means the “Secretary of the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha”, “The applicant” means an owner of a land or 
the developer representing the owner.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this statute, Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCheDuLe  i
Application for registration for land subdivision.
1.  Name of the applicant/company name in case of a company:
2.  Address of the applicant :
3.  Applicant’s identity Card Number :
4.  Applicant’s Phone Number : email :
5.  Whether the applicant is a land owner or a developer :
6.  Name and address of the Owner if the applicant is not the owner  (A copy of the agreement relating to the work 
between the applicant and the owner should be submitted) :
7.  District in which the land is located :
8. Jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
9.  Grama Niladhari Division :
10.  Relevant land deed number, name of attorney/notary (a copy should be submitted) :
11.  Relevant plan number (a copy should be submitted) :
12.  Number of plots to be divided into plots :
13.  whether a first registration or a previous registration has been obtained :
14.  y ear (Previous five years) of previous experience in subdividing and selling lands in the Sabaragamuwa Province, 
Pradeshiya Sabha
Name of the land,
Extent of land,
   I guarantee that the above information is true and correct.
 ........................................ .......................................
 Date Applicant.
01-174
PRiNTeD  AT  The  DePARTMeNT  OF  GOVeRNMeNT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANKA.