

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1816$26 - 2013 cqks ui 26 jeks nodod - 2013'06'26
No. 1816/26 - WEDNESDAY ,   JUNE   26,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
BY   HIS   EXCELLENCY  MAHINDA  RAJAPAKSA
PRESIDENT  OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF  SRI   LANKA
TO :
1. Justice Seyed Ishrat Imam Esquire
(Retired Judge of the Supreme Court)
2. Dhammika Kithulgoda Esquire
3. Atapattu Liyanage Bandula Kumara Atapattu Esquire
(Retired Judge of the High Court)
Greetings :
WHEREAS, several human skeletons have been found on the 26th of November 2012 whilst excavations were being
carried out in close proximity to the kitchen in the General Hospital premises in Matale and in carrying out further inspections
and excavations up to the 12th of February 2013 it has been possible to unearth 155 human skeletons or thereabouts,
Whereas, no definitive facts have been revealed as to whose skeletons they were and how such persons have come
by their deaths and during which period they were buried.
And whereas, it has become necessary to identify by whom and during which period and in what manner the bodies
that relate to the said human skeletons were buried, whose skeletons they were and how such persons have come by such
deaths.
And whereas, it has become necessary to ascertain whether such human bodies came to be buried as a result of an
illegal act or acts and if so ; whether any person or persons are responsible.
And whereas, I am of the opinion that it is in the interest of the public security and welfare to conduct inquiries in
order to determine what measures should be taken to ensure that there will be no recurrence of such alleged acts in the future.
Whereas I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate and report
on matters hereinafter referred to.
1A
 Seal
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
P. S. No. : CSA/7/8/14.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.06.2013
2A
Now therefore, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great
trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the Commissions
of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) by these presents appoint you, the said :
1. Justice Seyed Ishrat Imam Esquire
(Retired Judge of the Supreme Court)
2. Dhammika Kithulgoda Esquire
3. Atapattu Liyanage Bandula Kumara Atapattu Esquire
(Retired Judge of the High Court)
to be my Commissioners to inquire into and report on the following matters namely :
1. To identify during which period the aforesaid human skeletons and/or the bodies related thereto were buried ;
2. To identify whose human skeletons are those referred to above ;
3. To identify during which period and in what manner they had come by their deaths ;
4. If they had come by their deaths following an illegal act or acts.
(a) Adequate cogent factors or evidence that would lead to identification of the person or persons
responsible ;
(b) Legal action that could be instituted against the person or persons who are found to be responsible ;
(c) Measuers that should be taken to ensure that there will be no recurrence of such illegal act or acts in
the future ;
(d) If there is any reasonable relief to be granted as an obligation on the part of the government to the
parents, spouses and dependants of those identified as having come by their death.
And I do hereby appoint you the said Justice Seyed Ishrat Imam Esquire, Retired Judge of the Supreme Court to be
the Chairman of the said Commission.
And I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to hold all such inquiries and make all other
investigations, into the aforesaid matters as may appear necessary, and require you to transmit to me within six months from
the date of this warrant a report thereon under your hand, setting out the findings of your inquiries, and your recommendations
relating thereto.
And I do hereby direct such part of any inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters, as you may in your discretion
detemine, shall not be held in public ;
And I do hereby require and direct  all public officers, and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or
information to render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may be properly rendered and furnished in that
behalf.
And I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shall apply to
the Commission.
Given at Colombo under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this Twentieth day of June, Two
Thousand and  Thirteen.
By order of His Excellency,
L
ALITH WEERATUNGA,
Secretary to the President.
07-  308
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.