

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2268$13 - 2022 fmnrjdß ui 22 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'02'22
No. 2268/13  - Tuesday,  February 22,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
ThE URbAN DEvELOPmENT PROjECTS (SPECIAL PROvISIONS) ACT, No. 2 Of 1980
Order under Section 2
by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 2 of the urban development Projects (special Provisions) act, No. 
2 of 1980,  I, Gotabaya rajapaksa, President of democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka upon the recommendation of 
the Minister-in-charge of the subject of urban development being of the opinion that the lands described morefully in the 
schedule hereto are urgently required for the purpose of the Nelum Vila Jogging Track at Makevita development Project 
do by this order, declare that the said lands are required for such purpose.
  Gotabaya Rajapaksa,
  President.
Presidential secretariat,
Colombo.
18th February, 2022.
1a- G 36164 –  15 (02/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'02'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.02.2022
2a
sCheduLe
Nine (09) allotments of land namely halwilakumbura shown as Lot Nos. b, C, d, G, h, M, N, r and s in Tracing No. Ga/
dsO/2021/418 dated 29.10.2021 prepared by surveyor General containing in extent of 0a-0r-23.89P situated at Makewita 
village in Grama Niladari division No. 218, Makewita North within the divisional secretariat of Gampaha in the district 
of Gampaha, Western Province and bounded as follows.
Lot No. b - Extent 0.0234 ha.
North : road and balance portion of this land
east : balance portion of this land
south : Lot No. C and a of this Tracing
West : Lot No. a of this Tracing
Lot No. C - Extent 0.0002 ha.
North : Lot No. a, b and Tracing balance portion of this land
east : balance portion of this land
south : Land called halwilakumbura high and paddy land which the owner not aware and Lot d of this Tracing
West : Lot No. d, e and a of this Tracing
Lot No. D - Extent 0.0073 ha.
North : Lot No. e, a and C of this Tracing
east : Lot No. C of this Tracing, land claimed by saman rodrigo, Chandrakanthi Justin and others, name of  
  land could not be traced and balance portion of this land
south : balance portion of this land, The land claimed by alec roshan Perera called halwilakumbura high 
paddy land and Lot No. G in this tracing
West : Lot No. e of this Tracing
Lot No. G - Extent 0.0096 ha.
North : Lot No. F, e and d of this Tracing
east : Lot No. d in this Tracing, high and paddy land called halwil which is owner not aware and balance 
portion of this land.
south : balance portion of this land, land claimed by Gayathri Kalpani called halwilakumbura high & paddy 
land and Lot No. h in this tracing
West : Lot No. J and F of this Tracing
Lot No. h - Extent 0.0043 ha.
North : Lot No. J, F, G of this Tracing and land claimed by alec roshan Perera, called halwilakumbura high 
and paddy land
east : balance portion of this land, land claimed by susila Weerasundera called halwilakumbura high and 
paddy land and Lot No. M of this Tracing
south : balance portion of this land, land claimed by susila Weerasundera called halwilakumbura high and 
paddy land called halwilakumbura Lot No. M of this Tracing
West : Lot No. L and J of this Tracing

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'02'22
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.02.2022
3a
Lot No. m - Extent 0.0056 ha.
North : Lot No. J, h of this Tracing and land claimed by Gayathri Kalpani called halwilakumbura high & paddy 
land
east : b alance portion of this land, land claimed by Muthuporuthotage sham r oshan antan called  
halwilakumbura high and paddy land, Lot No. N of this Tracing
south : b alance portion of this land, land claimed by Muthuporuthotage sham r oshan antan called  
halwilakumbura high and paddy land, Lot No. N and P in this Tracing
West : Lot No. L and J of this Tracing
Lot No. N - Extent 0.0036 ha.
North : Lot No. M this advance Tracing, land claimed by susila Weerasundera called halwilakumbura high 
and paddy land and balance portion of this land
east : balance portion of this land, land claimed by Manel Karunarathna called halwilakumbura high and 
paddy land, Lot No. r of this advance Tracing
south : Lot No. r, Q and P of this Tracing
West : Lot No. P and L of this Tracing
Lot No. R - Extent 0.0050 ha.
North : Lot No. N this Tracing land claimed by Muthuporuthotage sham roshan antan called halwilakumbura 
high and paddy land and balance portion of this land
east : balance portion of this land, land claimed by ewon shiromi Perera called halwilakumbura high and 
paddy land, Lot No. s of this Tracing
south : balance portion of this land, land claimed by ewon shiromi Perera called halwilakumbura high and 
paddy land and Lot No. s and T of this Tracing
West : Lot No. Q and P of this Tracing
Lot No. S - Extent 0.0014 ha.
North : Lot No. r this Tracing land claimed by Manel Karunarathna called halwilakumbura high and paddy 
land 
east : balance portion of this land
south : balance portion of this land
West : Lot No. T, Q  and r of this Tracing
eOG 02 - 0604
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.