

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1 126
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1124
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"970 – 2016 cqks ui 03 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'06'03
No. 1,970 –  FRIDAY ,  JUNE 03, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th June, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th  June, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1121
Note.— Universities (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1122
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1123
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1124
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment on Open Basis to the Post of 
Secretary, Grade I in the Executive Service 
Category of the Department of Debt Conciliation 
Board - 2016
BY the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, applications 
are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the under 
mentioned qualifications in order to recruit a suitable person 
to fill the vacancy in the Post of Secretary, Grade I in the 
Executive Service Category of the Department of Debt 
Conciliation Board. Application forms prepared as per the 
specimen form appended at the end of this notice should 
be sent by registered post to reach the "Secretary, Ministry 
of Justice, Superior Courts Complex, Colombo 12" on or 
before the closing date of applications mentioned below. 
The words "Recruitment on open basis to the Post of 
Secretary, Grade I in the Executive Service Category of the 
Department of Debt Conciliation Board" should be written 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application form. 
Closing date of application will be on 01.07.2016.    
Note.– No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. Applicants 
who delay their applications until the last day will 
do so at their own risk. 
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments will be made 
on the order of merit secured at a structured interview to 
be conducted by an interview board to be appointed by the 
Cabinet of Ministers. The date on which such recruitment 
will take effect will be decided in accordance with the 
order of the Cabinet of Ministers. 
02. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) This post is permanent.  
 (ii) An officer recruited to this post is subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years from the 
date on which his/her appointment takes effect. 
The officer is required to pass the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination before the expiry of three (03) 
years from the date on which the recruitment will 
be made to this post. 
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in terms of 
the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 
and the Circulars issued incidental thereto, 
acquire the prescribed language proficiency 
within five (05) years of appointing to this post. 
The officer who enters the public service in a 
medium of language other than in a medium of 
any of the official languages will require to reach 
within three (03) years a requisite standard of 
proficiency in one official language and within 
five (05) years in the other official language. 
 (iv) This appointment will be subject to the cabinet 
decisions, the Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service Commission, Establishments Code of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders and 
any other regulations and orders issued from time 
to time by the Government. 
03. Salary Scale.– In terms of the Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016, this post which is under SL-1-2016, 
carries a salary scale of Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630-
17x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 per month and the initial salary 
scale amounts to Rs. 76,175 at salary step 20 as per 
grading system (As per the provisions set out in the P. A. 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the post carries, 
a salary mentioned in Schedule II thereof).
04. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
  Should have possessed a Post Graduate Degree 
conferred on by a University recognized by the 
University Grants Commission.  
 (ii) Professional Qualifications : 
  Should be an Attorney-at-Law enrolled by the 
Supreme Court with 15 years experience. 
 (iii) Experience.– Not applicable.  
05. Age limit.– Minimum age limit should be 35 years 
and the maximum age limit should be 50 years (If already 
in the Public Service, the age limit will not be applicable). 
06. Physical Fitness. – Every applicant should be in 
good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the 
island and to discharge the duties and functions of the post. 
07. Other Qualifications.– Every applicant must furnish 
satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
 (i) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Is of excellent moral character, 
 (iii) Has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every 
respect as at the closing date of applications 
referred to in this notice of calling for applications. 
08. Structured Interview Board.– Recruitments will be 
made on the order of merit at a structured interview to be 
conducted by an interview board to be appointed by the 
Cabinet of Ministers. The qualification will be checked by 
the interview Board. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1125
09. Method of Marking at the Structured Interview : 
    Spheres in respect of  Maximum Pass
   which marks are awarded marks Mark
    that could
    be awarded
   
01.  Additional Educational 45 
 Qualifications
02.  Local/Foreign trainings 20 Not
03. Additional experience  30 applicable
03.  Leadership, personality   05 
 and communication skills 
 as per the discretion of
 the interview Board 
     Total 100
10. (i) Applications should be prepared on a A4 paper 
of 22x29cm in size using both sides and items 
from 01 to 14 to appear on the first page and 
from 15 onwards on the second page and it 
should be filled by the candidate's own legible 
handwriting. Applications which are not in 
conformity with the specimen appended at 
the end of this notice or are received after the 
closing date of acceptanc e of applications are 
liable to be rejected without notice. Incomplete 
applications and applications of applicants 
who do not possess the prescribed minimum 
requirements will also be rejected. Therefore, 
applicants should see that their applications are 
as per the specimen in every respect. Receipt of 
applications will not be acknowledge. Further, 
it is advisable if a cop y of the application is 
retained with the applicant. 
Note :
 ( a) No documents or copies of documents 
should be attached to the application 
form. 
 ( b) Applications of applicants who fail to 
produce documents when required to do 
so will not be considered. 
 (ii) Applications from officers who are in the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Public 
Corporations are required to be forwarded 
through the Heads of the Departments. 
11. Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers, Procedural Rules 
of the Public Service Commission, Circulars that are now 
in force or may be issued from time to time in the future and 
the Scheme of Recruitment applic able to Officer, Grade I 
in the Executive S ervice Category of the Department of 
Debt Conciliation Board and the amendments made thereto 
from time to time shall be applicable to this post. 
By the order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
 Padmasiri Jayamanne, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Justice. 
28th April, 2016.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
ministry of Justice
aPPlication for the recruitment (oPen) to the Post of 
secretary, grade i in the executive service category of 
the debt conciliation board
 No. .............................
 (For office use only)
01. (a) Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  Name with initials ((In English Block Capitals) :     
 –––––––––.
 ( b) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  Full Name (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth : 
 Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of applications :––––––––––.
 Years :–––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
09. Race :––––––––––––.
10. Marital status :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the Post Graduate Degree :
 University :––––––––––––.
 Subject :––––––––––––.
 Date on which the Degree was conferred on :–––––––.
 Medium of language :––––––––––––.
12. Date of enrolment as an Attorney-at-Law :–––––––––.
13. Experience as an Attorney-at-Law No. of Years :            
––––––––––.
14. Qualifications as per the paragraph 04 of the notice of 
calling for applications : 
 (i) ..........................................................
 (ii) ..........................................................
 (iii) ..........................................................
 (iv) ..........................................................

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1126
14. Qualifications as per paragraph 04 of the notice of 
calling for applications : 
 (i) ..........................................................
 (ii) ..........................................................
 (iii) ..........................................................
 (iv) ..........................................................
15. Qualifications as pe r paragraph 09 of the notice of 
calling for applications : 
 (i) ..........................................................
 (ii) ..........................................................
 (iii) ..........................................................
 (iv) ..........................................................
 (v) ..........................................................
16. Languages proficiency (Mark P in the relevant box) : 
  Very Good Good Ordinary  Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English 
Applicant's Declaration 
I, ......................................................................... declare 
that the particulars furnished by me in this application are 
true and correct. I certify that I have not been subject to 
any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from 
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a 
merciful alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated 
the post previously. I am also aware that, if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am 
liable to disqualification, if detected before selection 
and to dismissal without compensation, if detected after 
appointment. 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date  :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department 
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................., 
the applicant above named is serving as a .............................. 
attached to ................................ Ministry/Department in 
the Public Service/Provincial Public Service on permanent/
temporary/casual basis. I also inform that he/she can be/ 
cannot be released from the service if he/she will be 
selected for this post. 
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Secretary to the Ministry/
 Head of the Department and Official seal. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
06–131
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY   OF   HEALTH,   NUTRITION  
AND  INDIGENOUS   MEDICINE
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Training – 2016
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the applicants 
who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the 
Sri Lanka Nursing Service Minute published in the 
Extraordinary Gazette  No. 1,837/8 dated 19.11.2013 of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the 
amendments made to it time to time in order to be recruited 
into the pupil nurses training under the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine (Recruitment of the 
male applicants will be carried out under the provisions of 
the Nursing Service minute on the basis of the requirement 
that are existed in the institutes under the Ministry). 
01. The total number to be recruited from the Island will 
be divided in proportion to the population in each district 
and then the number recruited from each district will be 
decided. 
The number recruited from each district will be divided 
in proportion to the number of applicants who apply from 
the respective district in each year and are eligible after 
the interview and then, the number recruited from the 
respective district in each year will be decided. 
After that, the number recruited in each year will be 
divided in proportion to the number of applicants who 
apply from the Bio Science and Physical Science subject 
streams in the respective year and are eligible after the 
general interview and then the number recruited from the 
respective district from each subject stream in each year 
will be decided. 
The number of recruits from each subject stream in each 
year will be decided as such and out of that number, 5% 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1127
is for male applicants and 95% is for female applicants. 
Selections will be made from the applicants who have 
obtained the highest Z-score from each subject stream in 
the respective district in each year. 
02. There will be full time courses. Therefore students 
who are following full time courses in any university or 
under the Ministry of Health Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine or in any other Government institute during the 
five days of the week including Saturday morning should 
not apply for this. If anybody so appiles and someone it 
was revealed late he or she will be dismissed from the 
course/post and all the expenses which were incurred by 
the Government on behalf of the trainees should be paid 
to the Government. If a full time student of the university 
or in another Government institute intends to apply the 
following guidelines should be followed. 
 2.1 If you had registered in a university or in any 
other Government institute for a full time course 
by the date 24.06.2016 and if you are selected 
for the student nurses training your registration 
for the relevant training or course should be 
cancelled before the date of the registration at the 
Nurses Training school. 
 2.2 Also if you had not registered in any University 
or for any other course conducted by the Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
by the date 24.06.2016 if you had registered 
by the date of registration of trainees for the 
student nursing training due to any reason his/her 
registration should also be cancelled before the 
date of registration at the nurses training school. 
 2.3 If the applicant who have registered for a full 
time course under the Ministry of Health and 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine are selected 
for the Student Nursing Training they will be 
registered for the Student Nursing Training only 
if they leave the relevant course after paying 
back the bonded sum according to the agreement 
signed relevant to the training at the time and all 
the allowances you have received. 
Note :–
 1. Even though you have fulfilled the conditions 
from 2.1 to 2.3 if you have not obtained sufficient 
Z-score or if you have not completed any 
conditions mentioned in this however you should 
be aware/informed that you will not be selected 
for this courses. 
 2. You should be further informed that even though 
you have obtained sufficient Z-score and have 
been complete the other conditions mentioned in 
this if you have not mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3 
you will not be selected for these courses. 
03. Educational Qualifications :–
At the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2014 or 2015 : 
 ( a) Should have passed any 03 subjects from 
Biology, Chemistry, Agriculture, Physics and 
Mathematics which belong to Bio Science 
subject stream in one sitting at the G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination. (Except Common General Test and 
General English) ; 
or 
  Should have passed any 03 subjects from 
Combined Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics and 
Advanced Mathematics which belong to Physical 
Science subject stream in one sitting at the G. C. E. 
(A/L) Examination. (Except Common General 
Test and General English) ;
and
 ( b) Should have passed 06 subjects with credit passes 
for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, 
Science and English in not more than two sittings 
at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination. 
04. Other qualifications :–
 ( a) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 ( b) Should not be below 18 and over 28 years of age 
as at 24.06.2016.
 ( c) Height should not be below 4'10" (147.3cm).
 ( d) Should be unmarried.
 ( e) Every candidate should be physically fit to serve 
as a nursing officer in any part of Sri Lanka.
 ( f) should be physically fit enough to discharge 
duties assigned to the post. 
 ( g) Should be excellent in character.
 ( h) Both male and female can apply. 
 ( i) Should have lived in the district from which 
you are applying for a period of three years 
immediately prior to the closing date of 
application which is 24.06.2016 and should have 
fulfilled at least one of the followings to prove 
the residence and the relevant documents should 
be presented at the interview :
 ( I) Should be resided in that district at least 3 years 
prior to 24.06.2016 (for this the Gramaniladari 
certificate signed by the Divisional Secretary 
should be submitted) ;

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1128
 ( II) Extracts of electoral lists preceding 3 years 
which were obtained from the District 
Elections Office should be produced. 
05. Method of Application : 
 ( a) Application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen given in this notification by 
using both sides of A4 size paper. This should 
be prepared as including the sections from 
No. 01 to No. 09 in page No. 01 and No. 10 
section should be in page No. 02 and page No. 
03 should be contained with the sections from 
No. 11 or No. 13. But, the relevant particulars 
should be mentioned in the cage given on the 
top right hand corner of the application. 
Note.– The qualification mentioned above 
(3) and (4) and other all qualifications 
should be fulfilled by the closing date of 
24.06.2016 in all respects. 
 ( b) Duly completed applications should be sent 
on or before 24.06.2016 by the register post 
to the "Director (Admin. 01), Ministry of 
Health and nutrition and indigenous medicine, 
Suwasiripaya, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10" 
and on the top left corner of the envelope should 
be mentioned as "Recruitment of the Pupil 
Nurse training in 2016" and resident district. 
 ( c) Applicant's signature should be attested 
by an officer in Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service/Educational Administrative Service/
Public Accountant Service/A Principle of 
a Government School/Justice of the Peace/
Lawyer or by an Officer who is bearing a 
government post and is being paid an annual 
salary not less than Rs. 240,360. 
 ( d) Receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to the credit 
of the account of "Director General of Health 
Services - collection of examination fees" No. 
7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Thaprobane 
Branch, should be affixed on cage of the 
application. The examination fees will neither 
funded for due to any reason nor transferred to 
another examination. 
06. Incomplete applications, not incompliance with the 
specimen form not fulfilled the basic qualifications, not 
affixed with the receipt of the bank and not registered on or 
before 24.06.2016 will be rejected without any notification 
and will not be acknowledged. 
07. Among the applicants those who have fulfilled 
the above mentioned qualifications will be called for an 
interview based on  a priority list prepared according to the 
Z-score. A general interview will be held by an interview 
board appointed by the Secretary of Health Nutrition and 
Indigenous Medicine and the Interview Board will check 
the qualifications mentioned in the Nurse service minute 
and this Gazette Notification and physical fitness. 
Note :
 ( a) Based on the available accommodation 
facilities of the nurses training schools and 
the exigencies of service, the Secretary of the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine will determine the number of intakes 
for the interview and for the training. 
 ( b) None of these provisions can be interpreted or 
construe that all those who are called for the 
interview will be recruited for the training. 
 ( c) Details of the applicants who qualified, not 
qualified and not selected after the interview 
will be published in the web site www.health.
gov.lk and will not be informed peronally to 
anyone. 
08. Originals and the certified true copies by himself 
of the below mentioned documents should be submitted at 
the interview by the applicant and the documents which are 
submitted after the interview will not be considered : 
 (a) Birth Certificate ; 
 (b) G. C. E. A/L Result Sheet and the originals of 
Z-score Result Sheet ; 
(c)  G. C. E. O/L Result Sheet ;
 (d) National Identity Card or valid Passport or Valid 
Driving license ;
 (e) The original documents in terms of prove the 
residence as per above 4(1) ;
 (f) An affidavit by Justice of peace in order to prove 
as a bachelor or spinster.
Note.– Certified true copies by himself of the 
certificates mentioned under the above a, b, c, d 
should be sent along with the application. 
09. Training Procedure : 
 (a) Selected applicants will be admitted to nurse 
training schools as pupils nurses and three (03) 
years training programme should be followed by 
them ;

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1129
 (b) Applicants will be admitted to nurse training 
schools subjected to the laws that existed in the 
nursing school. They will be subjected to these 
laws and to the other laws that are implemented 
time to time respectively ;
 ( c) If he/she fails at the scheduled examinations, if he/
she had not being conducted as a well mannered 
person or if they behave unsatisfactorily or 
if he/she fails to follow the examination and 
leave condition or if any detail was revealed as 
incorrect mentioned in the application form, will 
be terminated from this training without paying 
any compensation at any time of the training. The 
trainers will not be e ntitled for any leave during 
the training period and equal amount of money 
will be deducted on during the training period 
and equal amount of money will be deducted 
on behalf of the absent days during the training. 
However 80% attendance will be required for 
facing to the examination ; 
 (d) During to the training a monthly allowance will 
be paid to the pupil nurses according to the public 
administration circular 03/2016. 
 
 ( e) If anyone left the training during the training,  
dismissed or resigned by the training during the 
training period the all the expenses incurred by 
the Government for the training allowances paid 
during the training and amount of the bond should 
be paid by the relevant trainee to the Department. 
If not action will be taken to recover this amount 
of money. 
10. Terms and Agreements on unmarried status : 
 ( a) All the applicant should be unmarried by the 
date of applications and should also be remained 
as unmarried during the training period. An 
affidavit signed by the Justice of Peace should 
be forwarded to prove the unmarried status at the 
interview ;
 ( b) All the pupil nurses should be signed an agreement 
when they enter the nurses training schools with 
Director General of Health Services as to agree 
that to complete the training program successfully 
and to serve 10 years period under the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine or in 
a hospital under the Provincial Health Ministry If 
they considered to be appointed. This period of 
time will be decided by the Director General of 
Health Service time to time. 
11. Service Conditions :
 ( a) All the trainees should be appeared for a medical 
test prior to the training program ;
 
 ( b) If the government intends to grant permanent 
appointment to the trainee Nurses who complete 
to three years training successfully and pass the 
final examination they will be appointed to the 
vacancy exist in to post of Staff Nurse Officer 
Grade III on to salary scale will be entitled for the 
salary scale MT 7-2016 in terms of the provisions 
in P. A. Circular 3/2016 dated 25.02.2016.
 ( c) All the officers in the nurse service will be 
subjected to the provisions of Establishment 
Code  in the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka to the implemented laws by the 
Public Service Commission with regard to the 
Government Service, to the regulations and 
orders, for the provisions of nurse service minute 
to the Government Financial Regulations and to 
the other regulations of the government, to the 
circulars, instructions and to the revisions made 
upon them frequently. 
 ( d) The information on Education and other 
qualifications should be filled in the applications 
with full of attention and they should be entered 
correctly. If any certificate mentioned above 
found as incorrect or fraud document the relevant 
appointments will be cancelled and also will be 
dismissed by the training or by the post. Such 
incidents will be forwarded Criminal Investigation 
Department to tack legal actions and their names 
will be entered into black list that prevented them 
for re-employing under the government. Action 
will be taken to recover the full amount of money 
which incurred by the government for payments 
and other expenses by the government during 
the training period together with relevant surety 
mentioned in the surety bond by him/her. 
 ( e) This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel 
facilities within the training schools for the 
recruited applicants. 
 ( f) During this period no-one is allowed to participate 
in trade union actions or serving attached to 
private services and they do not have any right 
thereof. Actions will be taken to dismissed by the 
training or another suitable action according to the 
rules and regulations if such incident is revealed. 
 ( g) Decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of 
Health Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will be 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1130
final and exclusive if any complicated situation is 
arisen on the circumstances that are not  covered 
by this Gazette Notification  with regard to the 
training programme. The Sinhala Language 
sentences will be effective if any differences are 
originated between the Sinhala/Tamil and English 
sentences under this Gazette Notification. 
  anura Jayawickrama,
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
  and Indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
No. 385, Suwasiripaya, 
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, 
Colombo 10, 
20th May, 2016. 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AND 
INDIGENOUS MEDICINE 
recruitment of PuPil nurses for training – 2016
District 
G. C. E. (A/L) subject stream
G. C. E. (A/L) year passed 
Medium 
01. ( a) Last Name with Initials (In English block letters) 
:–––––––––.
 ( b) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 ( c) Full Name (English block letters) :–––––––––––.
02. Postal Address (In English) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent Address (In Sinhala) :
 (ii) District (In English) :
 (iii) Telephone No. :
  Mobile : 
  Residential :
04. Date of Birth : 
 Y ear : 19–––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
05. Age as at 24.06.2016 : 
 Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
06. Gender : Male
 (Put "P" in the appropriate Box) Female
07. Whether you are a Sri Lankan Citizen : Yes
 (Put "P" in the appropriate Box) No
08. National Identity Card No. : 
09.  Height : 
 ( a) Feet :–––––––––.  Inches :–––––––––.  
 ( b) cm :––––––––.
10. (a)  G. C. E. A/L Examination  : 
  (i) Year :–––––––––––.  
  (ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Z-score :–––––––––––. 
 (iv) Stream  :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade For Subject Grade For 
   office use   office use
   only   only 
1.  3.
2.  4.
 ( b) G. C. E. O/L Examination : 
   First Attempt : 
    (i)  Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
    (ii)  Index No. :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade For Subject Grade For 
   office   office
   use      use
01.  07.
02.  08.
03.  09.
04.  10.
05.  11.
06.  12 .

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1131
  Second Attempt : 
    (i)  Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
    (ii)  Index No. :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade For Subject Grade For 
   office   office
   use    use  
01. Sinhala 07.
02. English 08.
03. Maths 09.
04. Science 10.
05.  11.
06.  12.
11. Have you ever been convicted in any Court for any 
offence : 
   Yes
   No
 If "Yes" provide details :––––––––––.
12.  Declaration/Certification of the Applicant : 
  ( a) I hereby state respectively that the information 
provided in the application are true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge. 
  ( b) I know that I will be dismissed if this statement 
proved in correct/false revaled later. 
Affix the receipt of the bank obtained by 
paying Rs. 300 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Signature of the Applicant : 
I hereby certify that I personally know Mr./Mrs./Miss 
................... who submit this application and he/she placed 
his/her signature before me on ........./......... 2016. 
    
  –––––––––––––,
  Attestor's signature. 
Full name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
06–186

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1132
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.06.2016
1133
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 June 03.06.2016 Friday — 20.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  10.06.2016 Friday –– 27.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  17.06.2016 Friday –– 03.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  24.06.2016 Friday –– 10.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
 July 01.07.2016 Friday — 17.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  08.07.2016 Friday –– 24.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  15.07.2016 Friday –– 01.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
  22.07.2016 Friday –– 08.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
  29.07.2016 Friday –– 15.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
 August 05.08.2016 Friday — 22.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
  12.08.2016 Friday –– 29.07.2016 Friday 12 noon
  19.08.2016 Friday –– 05.08.2016 Friday 12 noon
  26.08.2016 Friday –– 12.08.2016 Friday 12 noon
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2016.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.