

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2359$11 - 2023 fkdjeïn¾ ui 21 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2023'11'21
No. 2359/11 -  Tuesday,   November  21,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A- G 40797 - 07 (11/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
DEPARTmENT  Of  GOvERNmENT  INfORmATION
Issuance of Official Media Accreditations for the year 2024
IT is the responsibility of a government to ensure a free and unhindered environment for media personnel and media 
institutions to enable them to perform their duty without restrictions. In compliance with this policy, the department of 
Government Information committed in creating a better and quality media culture in sri Lanka, henceforth would issue 
media accreditations to journalists with the intention of assisting them to engage in their career while enriching the standards 
of the profession and protecting the dignity of the trade.
  Persons who gather news and information, edit and disseminate them over electronic, print or web media to all kinds of 
receivers are considered as journalists for the purpose of issuing media accreditations. media accreditations are issued only 
to such professional media personnel who are active in the trade.
  Heads of all Print and electronic media Institutions as well as sectional Heads of News and Current affairs are 
requested to recommend only the Professional Journalists under their supervision for media accreditation.
    Heads of Media Institutions / Chief Editors / News Directors / Chief Sub Editors or the authorized officers of the 
Institutions who certify the list of journalists applying for media accreditation would be held responsible for the content of 
the lists and their endorsement.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
2a
  media accreditations will be issued under following criteria for the year 2024, and the attention of relevant parties is 
drawn to the requirement of following documents and criteria which are essential for the issuance of media accreditations.
1.      Journalist
2.      Provincial Journalist
3.      Freelance Journalist
4.      Foreign Journalist (Temporary)
5.      media administrator
6.      Technician
7.      State Media Officer
8.      media service
01. Basic criteria and required documents
 
 I. The media accreditation will be issued for the year– 2024 and will be valid until december 31, 2024.
 ii.  applicants should have a service record of more than six months in a recognized media Institution on a 
permanent or contract basis. (Trainees are not issued with media accreditations)
 iii. The list of journalists who are eligible for media accreditations   prepared according to the format below 
using institutional letter head,  should be submitted along with a request letter under the signature of  the 
Head of the media Institution / director General / Ceo / General manager / Chief editor / News director 
or Chief sub editor. This should be addressed to director-General of the department of Government 
Information and the name, designation, signature and the official seal of the certifying officer should be 
indicated therein
Serial No. Name NIC No. Designation Service Unit
01.     
02.     
  iv.  The officer certifying the letter of request for Media Accreditations should place his or her signature and 
the official seal on each page of the list of applicants.
  v.   Official identity card of each applicant should be furnished with a photocopy of the same endorsed as a 
true copy by the officer who certified the list of applicants. The signature and official seal of the certifying 
officer should be placed therein. (After comparing with the photocopy, the office ID will be returned to the 
officer)
  vi.  When an applicant does not hold an official identity card, a photocopy of his / her letter of appointment 
should be submitted with an endorsement by the officer who certified the name list of the applicants. His / 
her name, designation, signature and official seal should be indicated.
 vii. applications for media accreditations the year 2024 could be downloaded from Government Information 
Department’s official website  www.dgi.gov.lk or Government’s Official News portal www.news.lk.
viii.   In addition to the endorsement of the entire list, it is compulsory that each application should be certified 
by the Director-General / Chief Executive Officer / General Manager / Chief Editor / News Editor / News 
Director / News Manager or Chief Sub Editor  and his or her signature and the official seal there on.
 ix. Two clear colour photographs, 1''x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) in size, taken within the last six months should be 
submitted. One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application. Unclear photographs and 
photographs of not the prescribed size will be rejected.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
3a
 x. When issuing media accreditations to journalists who are attached to websites; special attention will be 
drawn to the following conditions:
² media accreditations will be issued only to the media personnel attached to websites that disseminate 
news and report on current affairs.
² The relevant website should have registration with the ministry in charge of mass media for the 
year 2024, and a copy of the registration endorsed by a staff officer in charge of the subject in the 
ministry of mass media should be submitted along with the Web Journalists’ applications. However, 
the registration issued by the Ministry in charge of Mass Media is not the only sufficient condition to 
claim media accreditation.
² The objectives of the website and the number of subscribers, whether they are daily updated and fully 
operative etc. will be taken into consideration before issuing media accreditations to web journalists.
² each News and Current affairs Website that applies for media accreditations should produce business 
registration documents and a copy of the same endorsed by a staff officer of the particular business 
institution, with his / her name, signature and official seal placed there on.
² When it is felt that further references are necessary before issuing media accreditations to web 
journalists, the decision whether to issue media accreditations to such web journalists will be taken 
only after obtaining reports from the relevant parties with regard to such applications.
² only the web sites that are being updated continuously on a daily basis for a minimum period of six 
months are eligible for media accreditations. a minimum of 50% of the content of such websites 
should specifically be news and current affairs.
² a  maximum of two media accreditations per each language will be issued for websites.
² only the journalists attached to Web media entities will be issued media accreditations, and 
accreditations will not be issued to the other cadres of the organization such as Chairman / 
administrator / Governor and director.
² media accreditations will be issued only to the websites that are directly engaged in dissemination of 
news. media accreditations will not be issued to institutional websites.
 xi. special attention will be paid to the following factors when issuing media accreditations for foreign media 
Institutions.
² media accreditations will be issued to residential representatives / staff reporters who have been 
assigned by internationally recognized media Institutions to serve permanently in sri Lanka.
² media accreditations will be issued to such journalists only after the information furnished by them 
are verified from the relevant foreign media institution.
² It is compulsory for the applicant to submit his or her service letter issued by the head of his or her 
foreign media employer.
² a  photocopy of his or her Passport / National Identity Card should be submitted.
² If the need arises that further references are necessary, before issuing media accreditations to any 
journalist, the decision to issue media accreditation to such journalists will be made only after 
obtaining reports fr om the relevant parties with regard to such applications.
 xii. The validity of media accreditations issued in 2024 will expire on december 31, 2024.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
4a
02.  Categories of Media Accreditations - Basic criteria and documents required
i. Journalist
staff journalists attached to media Institutions in the Print, electronic and Web media sectors will be issued 
with Media Accreditations under the category - Journalist. The applicants should fulfil the requirements 
from No.i to No.xi under serial No.01. staff journalists attached to Newspapers, Tabloid magazines, radio, 
Television, Websites and foreign media institutions come under this category.
ii. Provincial Journalist
a district wise list of provincial journalists together with the following information should be submitted to the 
director-General of the department of Government Information by the relevant media Institution.
 (a). Name of the provincial journalist
 (b). National Identity Card No.
 (c). Permanent address
 (d). The area and the district covered by the correspondent
 (e). Telephone No. / Nos. of the correspondent
²  The list of provincial journalists should be certified by the Head of the Media Institution / Director 
General / Ceo / General manager / News director / Chief News editor / Provincial News editor or 
Chief Editor. The name, designation, signature and the official seal of the certifying officer should 
be placed on the list and be addressed to the director General of the department of Government 
Information. The signature of the certifying officer should be placed on each page of the list together 
with his or her official seal.
² The original list of names should be forwarded to the director General of the department of Government 
Information, and its soft copy should be emailed to media.accre@gmail.com .
² Two colour photographs, sized 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) taken within the last six months should 
be submitted along with the application. One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the 
application. unclear photographs or photographs of not the prescribed size will be rejected.
² a  clear photocopy of the National Identity Card / v alid Passport / v alid driving License should be 
submitted along with the application. Incomplete applications will be rejected.
² Heads of media Institutions, director / Chief editor / News director / Provincial News editor are 
requested to submit only the names of the reporters who are currently active in the trade.
²  Applications could be downloaded from www.dgi.gov.lk or www. news.lk and the duly filled applications 
could either be sent by registered post to the director-General, department of Government Information, 
No.163, Kirulapone road, Colombo 5 or handed over to the above address.
² Write on the top left-hand corner of the envelope ‘Provincial media accreditation’
iii. Freelance Journalist
² The applicant should have a minimum period of one-year continuous service as a Freelance Journalist 
in a nationally recognized electronic or print media institution, and have possessed the following 
testimonials.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
5a
² No less than 12 photocopies or Cds containing news reports / current affairs articles or programmes, 
features / entertainment programmes / photographs published under the applicant’s by-name within the 
last six months from the date of submission of the application, should be produced.
² along with the application submitted by freelance journalists, a letter from at least one of the media 
institutions he or she provides news, feature articles and current affairs programmes should be forwarded 
on letterhead of the relevant institution to the director General of the department of Government 
Information. It should also include the name, signature and official seal of the head of the institution / 
News director or Chief editor. 
² Freelance Journalist media accreditations will be issued for web media organizations subject to the 
maximum number of Media Accreditations specified in “x.” above.
iv. Foreign Journalist (Temporary)
²  “Foreign Journalists-Temporary” Media Accreditation will be issued to foreign journalists who arrive 
in sri Lanka to cover special events to compile articles and to do documentary programmes that are of 
news and current affairs value.
² The applicant should submit the service letter issued by the Head of his / her Foreign media Institution.
² The approval letter from the ministry of Foreign affairs should be submitted.
² v alid Passport should be submitted.
² Two colour photographs, in the size of 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) taken within the last six months, should 
be submitted with the application. One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application.
² The Photograph of the Passport will not be accepted for this purpose.
v.      Media Administrator
²  Maximum three Media Accreditations will be issued to officers who are directly involved in media 
administration of a nationally recognized media organization.
² media accreditations will not be issued to marketing development directors / managers / Welfare 
officers and others who are engaged in sales promotion sectors of Media Institutions.
vi. Technical
² media accreditation under the category ‘Technical’ will be issued to electronic media technicians who 
are directly engaged in field media activities.
² all the conditions given under aforesaid No.01 should be met by those who apply for media 
accreditations under the category ‘Technical’.
vii. Media Official
²  Accreditations under the category ‘Media Official’ will be issued to Media Secretaries / Media Directors/ 
News Directors / Information Officers / Media Officers / Photographers / Video Cameramen and 
media assistants as they have been directly recruited to such positions by statutory boards including 
Government ministries and departments.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
6a
² a  letter requesting media accreditations for the aforesaid employees who are engaged in media 
activities in their ministries or institutions coming under the purview of the respective ministries should 
be addressed to the director General, department of Government Information by the ministry secretary 
or the Additional Secretary. The Ministry Secretary / Additional Secretary who certifies the relevant list 
of names and designations carries the full responsibility for the authenticity of information provided 
there in.
 
² The letter of request should carry a reference Number of the particular Government establishment and 
requests without such ref. Nos. will be rejected.
² media accreditations will only be issued to employees who hold above positions in state media units, 
and not to others those who are attached to media units of state Institutions.
² When media accreditations are applied for personnel of media units of semi-Governmental institutions 
or statutory boards coming under the purview of Government ministries, such applications and the list 
of names should be endorsed by the director-General / General manager of the relevant Institution 
giving his / her name, designation and placing his / her official seal there on
viii. Media Services
² media accreditations under the category ‘media services’ will be issued to those who are involved in 
media activities that are directly connected with outdoor media coverage for News and Current affairs 
units of media Institutions.
² The applicants for media accreditations under this category should also meet all the conditions given 
under the aforesaid No.01.
General Conditions
01. applications for media accreditations for the year 2024 will be accepted until march 31, 2024.  
applications received after the deadline and the incomplete applications will be rejected.
02. a  maximum of three, two and one media accreditations will be issued for monthly, bimonthly and 
quarterly publications, respectively.
03. media accreditations will not be issued for annual or biannual publications / magazines.
04. Copies of the relevant magazine / publication published during the last six months and documents of 
registration with the department of National archives should be submitted to prove the continuity of 
publication. 
05.  The certificate of registration issued by the Sri Lanka Press Council should be submitted in respect of 
each magazine / publication.
06. The supplements issued with newspapers will not be considered as separate newspapers. When 
applications are made in respect of such supplements, media accreditations will be issued only in 
the name of the main newspaper.
07. The head of the media organization is responsible for returning the media Id of a journalist who is 
dismissed/resigned from the service of a media organization to the director General of Government 
Information.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
7a
08. a  journalist   who is   dismissed or resigned from the service of a media organization applies for 
media accreditation through a different media Institution without returning his / her previous media 
accreditation to the director-General of Government Information, a new one will not be issued under 
his or her name.
09. a  new media accreditation Card will not be re-issued in the respective year in lieu of a lost media 
accreditation Card.
10. No new media accreditations will be issued for the year 2024 for journalists who have been issued 
media accreditations for the three years 2022/2023/2024.
11. media accreditations should be used only for media activities. If it is abused or used ignoring media 
ethics, the director-General of Government Information has powers to recall or cancel such media 
accreditations.
12. media accreditations are issued only once a year. Intermittent requests by media Institutions will not 
be considered, and will be rejected.
13.  Honorifics or titles and academic qualifications will not be mentioned in the Media Accreditation. 
only the name of the journalist and professional information will be mentioned.
14.  In order to issue Media Accreditation Cards for new Electronic Media Organizations, certified copies 
of the license issued by the sri Lanka Telecommunications regulatory Commission and the ministry 
of mass media for electronic broadcasting services must be submitted.
15. To consider granting media accreditations to Cable Television Institutions, such Television Channels 
should have a record of broadcasting a minimum of five news and current affairs programs per week. 
a maximum of 10 media accreditations will be issued only for the News division of each Cable 
Network that fulfills the said condition. Certified copies of the license issued to the Registered Cable 
Television Channels by the sri Lanka Telecommunication regulatory Commission and the ministry 
of mass media should be submitted along with the application.
16.  The authority in making the final decision with regard to the issuance of Media Accreditations and 
effecting changes as required to the above terms and conditions and provisions is vested in the 
director-General of the department of Government Information.
17. media accreditations will not be issued:
 I. to artistes engaged in performing art sectors such as cinema, theater and tele drama;
 
  II.  to personnel attached to firms engaged in publicity work, advertising and video production;
 
 III. under pseudonyms that journalists use in reporting news and current affairs / writing features/ 
doing programmes;
 
 Iv . to media entities that do not report news and current affairs;
 
 v . for hand books on different subjects or publications that do not contain news or current 
affairs;
 
 vI. for positions such as management assistant / coordinator that have no direct connection to 
mass media;
 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 21.11.2023
8a
 VII.  for official websites of government institutions such as cabinet / state ministries, Departments 
and other government bodies.
18. If complaints are received about abusing the media accreditation by any print, electronic and web 
media journalist in pursuing personal interests the director-General of Information has absolute 
authority to investigate such malpractices and cancel the media accreditations of the journalist 
concerned if he / she is found guilty of violating the department’s terms and regulations.
 D inith  C hintaka  k arunaratne ,
 director General,
 department of Government Information.
eoG 11-0210
PrinteD at  the DeP artMent  OF GOVernMent  PrintinG,  Sri Lanka.