

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by  Hon. Achala Jagodage, M.P. on 05th November, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 275]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on October 28, 2013)
INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT,
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka

<!-- page 2 -->

Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 007616—75  (10/2013)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT, SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Institute  called and known as the
“Institute for Research and Development” has been
established in Sri Lanka in year 2000, and first registered as
a Not for Profit Organization under the companies act in
2004 (registration number N(A) 1170) and under the new
amemdments to the act it was reregistered in 2011 as a Not
for Profit Professional Guarantee Limited Organization
(registration number GA 635) under the name of Forum for
Research and Development for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said institution according to the rules agreed to by
its members. To fulfill the aspirations and expectations of
the research community and the public in order to expand
and extend research and related activities within the country.
In addition to be accountable and transparent to the public:
AND WHEREAS the said research Institute has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  objects and matters
for which it was established, with regional and international
acclaim and has applied to be incorporated, and it will be for
the public advantage to grant the application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Institute for Research
and Development, Sri Lanka  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of
2013.
2. From and after  date of commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as presently are members of  the  Institute
for Research and Development  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Institute for
Research &
Development
Sri Lanka.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(hereinafter referred to as the  “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of  the  “ Institute for
Research and Development”  and by that name may sue and be
sued and all  Courts with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and  to alter  same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to establish and institute of Research and
Development non-profit making research academy ;
(b) to promote and assist the advancement of academic
research by development, training, education and
extension ;
(c) to observe, promote and safe-guard higher ethical
standards as an essential component of reseacrh,
through development, training, education, extension
and protect the rights of the research participants
through ethic review procedures ;
(d) to sponsor, conduct, hold and organize conferences,
seminars, workshops, group studies, exhibitions and
training programs and to produce and publish
newsletters, journals, magazines, books, films, video
films, cassettes, electronic data and information
storage devises for furthering the object of the Institute
in Sri Lanka and abroad ;
(e) to conduct short courses, certificate courses and
diploma courses and to award certificates and
diplomas for those who successfully complete the
requirements as set out in the rules of the corporation ;
(f) to award local and international fellowships,
scholarships, distinction title, prizes, bursaries,
studentships and similar awards and to undertake
research projects for carrying out the purpose of the
Institute ;
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(g) to co-operate with governmental and non
governmenal organizations and national and
international institutes engaged in similar academic
areas in order to promote research, development
training, education and extension ;
(h) to promote professional interest of the members of
the corporation ; and
(i) administration, development and promotion of the
Sri Lanka Twin Registry a section of the Institute,
with its total administrative authority and the
ownership of its data bases, and the research
laboratory.
(2) in the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the council shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based on race, religion, language, cast, sex political opinion
or place of birth.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Council of
members consisting of maximum of seven who shall be
elected at an Annual General Meeting and shall hold office
for a terms of three years. Provided that the first Council
shall hold office for a term of three years or until such time
they tender their resignation in writing to the Institute.
(2) The first Council of Members of the Corporation shall
be the Council members of the Institute for Research and
Development holding office on the day immediately
preceding the commencement of this Act and whose names
are specified in the schedule hereto.30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts,  matters  and things
whatsoever, as are  necessary or desirable for the promotion,
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property
for the purpose of the Corporation ;
(b) construct and otherwise obtain lands or building
which may be required for purposes of the
Corporation ;
(c) borrow or raise money from the government
approved banks and other institutions (foreign and
local) for the purposes of the Corporation ;
(d) invests its funds, and to maintain currrent deposit
and savings account in any bank that Council of
Members may think fit ;
(e) to accept, raise and receive subscriptions, grants,
donations and gifts of all kinds ;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons to advance its
objects ;
(g) to conduct research projects commissioned or
outsourced by other organizations or individuals ;
(h) to own, manage and govern all affairs related to the
Sri Lanka Twin Registry ;
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
(i) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinay
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
objects of Corporation ;
(j) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purpose of the Corporation ; and
(k) to do all other things are necessary or expedient for
the proper and effective carrying out of the objects
of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than than two-thirds of the members
present and voting to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members their admissions, withdrawal
or expulsion or resignation ;
(b) the election of the Council of Members or vacation
of or removal from office as office bearers and
powers, duties and conduct of the Council of
Members ;
(c) the appointment, power, duties functions and
conduct of the various officers, agents and servants
of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the
Corporation or any sub-committee thereof, filling
of vacancies, notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat ;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
Corporation
may hold and
dispose of
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Institute.
20
25
30
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for Council
of Members ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Institute in force on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall insofar as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation and
may be  amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a  meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this Section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to  the rules for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date  of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Institute on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act.
8. No member of the Corporation shall, for  purpose of
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contributor
exceeding the amount of  such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
9. The Corporation shall subject to rules of the
Corporation be able and capable in law, to take  and hold
any property, movable or immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition of otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation of
this Act with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.
Limitations
of the
liabilities of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
7
10. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be  received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution fees or grants
for or and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited
in one or more banks as the Corporation  shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of moneys
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise and discharge of its powers and
functions under this Act.
(3) The money and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation.
11. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper account to
be kept of the money received and expended by the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and the balance sheet
certified by the auditors who shall be the associate members
of the Institute of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka
appointed by the Corporation.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to  institution or institutions having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among the members of the such
institution or institutions and at the discretion of the Council
of Member the  Corporation.
Funds of  the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20
Accounts and
Auditing.
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
13. The seal of the Corporation shall be kept in the
custody of the Council of Members of the Corporation and
shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in
the presence of two members of the Council of the
Corporation and who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  any body  corporate or
any other persons, except such as are mentioned in this Act,
and those claiming by, from or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10

<!-- page 10 -->

Institute for Research and Development, Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
9
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .