

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3527  
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 3522
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"146 – 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'10'18
No. 2,146 –  fRiday ,  octobER 18, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th November, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th october, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3519 - b 81569- 5,403 (10/2019)
N. B.–   (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,145 of 11.10.2019 was not published. 
 (ii) the list of Jurors of Kurunegala district Jurisdiction areas in year 2019 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in 
Sinhala, tamil and English Languages.
Note.–    (i) National Minimum Wage of Workers (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of october 11, 2019.
 (ii) Provincial councils Elections (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of october 11, 2019.
 (iii) National innovation agency bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of october 04, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3520
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3521
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. d ebarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. d isqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. i mposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . d ebarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
V. i ssuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2.
 Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. 
actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5.
 absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staf
f.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. 
acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. 
it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall,
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. 
also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. 
in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the 
commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. 
in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. 
also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However
, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. 
impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. i t is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
(a) a ctions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
(b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
V. No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of
coloured chalks,etc.
Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. 
you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. 
you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
Viii. t he left-hand mar gin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and
sufficiently large.
X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
Xi. a t the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
Xiii. i f it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3522
Posts – vacant
vACANCIES fOR SAILORS IN ThE ARTIfICER bRANCh Of SRI LANkA 
REGuLAR NAvAL fORCE
1. V aca NciES exist in the Artificer Branch of the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force for recruit sailors.
2. Applications are called from male candidates possessing the following qualifications Candidates should
essentially fulfill the following general conditions to get recruited to the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
(1) Nationality :- Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2) a ge :- Not less than 18 years and not more than 24 years as at 25th November, 2019
(3) Height :- Must not be less than 5 feet and 5 inches
(4) Weight :- Must not be less than 47 kg (105 pounds)
(5) c hest :- Must not be less than 32 inches
(6) c olour Vision :- Std ii
(7) Visual acuity :- Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without Spectacles and lenses)
(8) c ivil Status :- c andidates must be unmarried. No recruit will be permitted to get married whilst 
under training.
3. Education qualification :
(a) Qualified persons will be recruited to the following divisions for the National Diploma in Technology Full-
time course offered by Naval institute of technology.
(1) National diploma in technology (Naval Engineering)
(2) National diploma in technology (Electrical Engineering)
(3) National diploma in technology (Electrical and telecommunication Engineering)
(4) National diploma in technology (automotive Engineering)
(5) National diploma in technology (Hull Engineering and ship construction)
(b) Should have passed the G.c.E (o/L) Examination in not more than two attempts with 06 subjects including
English, Science and with a credit pass for Mathematics. Moreover, should have passed the G. c.E (a/L)
Examination with simple pass for Combined maths. (A certified copy of the results sheet issued by the
commissioner General of Examinations should be sent attached to the application form).
Note.- Additional subjects will not be taken into consideration for G.C.E (O/L) qualification but Due 
consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Applications of candidates who have not fulfilled the requirements of Para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below 
the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any candidate 
who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy be 
considered even though he may not have the requisite height provided he possesses the requisite academic and professional 
qualifications.
5. Service conditions :
(a) candidates will be initially enlisted as recruits and they are required to undergo basic training courses.
(b) during and after the period of training the recruits shall be subject to the Naval Law.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3523
 (c) all the recruits will be provided with uniforms and other equipment.
 (d) during the period of training the recruits will be provided with accommodation and food by the Sri Lankan 
Navy.
 (e) during the training period, if a recruit desires to get his candidature dismissed, the recruit is required to pay 
back to the government of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred so far by the government of Sri Lanka for 
his training.
 (f) during the training period, due to a misconduct of the recruit or due to any other reason which the recruit 
is responsible for, if the responsible authorities determine that he is not eligible for the service of the Navy, 
the recruit, on that occasion itself, should enter into a bond with the Navy commander as the representative 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka agreeing that he will pay back all costs incurred for him 
to the Sri Lanka Navy.
 (g) Either for duties or training, all Naval Officers are bound to be attached to any part of Sri Lanka or a foreign 
country.
6. Official Languages Requirements.– the selected candidates are required to obey all commands and Legislation 
that have already been and likely to be enacted for implementation of the official languages policy that comes under the 
Official Languages Act, No.33 of 1956.
7. Salaries and Allowances.– the payments from the date 01. 01. 2019 will be made according to the Management 
Services circular No. 03/ 2016. accordingly,
 (a) basic salary  - Rs. 27,026.00
 (b) cost of living - Rs. 7,800.00
 (c) Uniform cleaning allowance - Rs. 350.00
 (d) Hard line allowance (operational areas) - Entitled after basic training
 (e) Hard line allowance (Non-operational areas) - Entitled after basic training  
 (f) other allowances - Special allowance Rs. 1000.00     
  Special additional allowance Rs. 2,400.00 
 (g) adjustment allowance - Rs. 480.00
  t otal salary - Rs. 39,056.00
Note. Sailor’s basic salary by 01.01. 2020 will be Rs. 30,140.00 and he will be entitled to the following increments :
 01.01.2016 - 176 x 5-210 x 19
 01.01.2020 - 300 x5-370 x 19
 (h) three sets of railway warrants per year will be granted (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and 
dependents).
 (j) an additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for the sailors living in the camp to 
travel from the billet to their hometown will be granted once a month.
 (k) free medical facilities will be provided (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and dependents).
 (l) Married sailors who are not residing in government quarters will be entitled to a house rent allowance from 
Rs. 2,400.00 to Rs 6,600.00.
 (m) quarters will be provided to the married sailors based on the availability of vacancies in the quarters reserved 
for married sailors.
8. Instructions to Applicants  :
 (a) Duly filled Application by the candidate himself with clear handwritings should be submitted as per the 
specimen application to SENIOR STAff OffICER (RECRuITmENTS), NAvy hEADQuARTERS, 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3524
P.O. bOx 593, and COLOmbO by registered post before 12.00 noon of 25th November, 2019. 
applications that are not sent by registered post will be rejected. ‘‘Recruitment of Artificer Sailors” should 
be indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. Late applications and unqualified applications will not 
be entertained. For further information, please contact 011-7195162 or visit www.navy.lk.
(b) candidates who are in Government Service / corporations / boards / civil Establishments should forward
their applications through their Heads of department / corporations / boards / civil Establishments and
should bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for;
(3) School leaving certificate;
(4) Grama Niladari Certificate (Taken within six month to closing date);
(5) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution;
(6) Three recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person who has known the applicant for more than two years,
or from the present employer (if employed);
(7) Certificates in support or sports activities.
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the
application form.
09. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.
10. Selection Interviews etc.:
(a) Candidates who fulfil the above conditions required to undergo the Preliminary medical test prescribed by
the Sri Lanka Navy. only the candidates who pass the medical test should undergo the following physical
Endurance test. the candidates who pass the said physical Endurance test shall have to be appeared at an
interview before a Selecting board.
(b) Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical Endurance Test :
exercise Time (Minutes/Seconds) Rounds
1600 m /run
Push up
Sit Up
arm bending
07 minutes and 30 seconds
02 minutes
 
02 minutes 
02 minutes
-
20 or more
15 or more
07 or more
(c) c andidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing, of the place, time and date of such interviews. 
travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(d) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he is to produce his National identity card
issued by the department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3525
(e) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews will be required to present themselves before a Sri
Lanka Navy Medical board.
(f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such
candidate.
(g) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
Note- this Gazette notification will be published in the three languages i.e Sinhala, T amil and English. in case of any 
inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
KKVPH De Silv a, WWV & bar, 
RWP, RSP, VSV , USP, ndu
Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters, 
P.
o. box 593, 
colombo 01.
Application for Post of Recruit Artificer in the  Sri Lanka Navy
01. Nationality :––––––––––––.
(Stale whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration quote number and date of certificate)
02 . Stream applied (in priority order) :––––––––––––.
03. full Name (as per the National identity card) :––––––––––––.
04. National identity card Number :––––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
06. Postal address :––––––––––––.
07. date of birth :––––––––––––.
08. age years :––––––––––––.    Months :––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––.  (as at 25th November, 2019):
09. Height :––––––––––––. (cm) chest :––––––––––––.  (cm) Weight :––––––––––––.  (Kg)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––––––.
11. district :––––––––––––.
12. Electorate :––––––––––––.
13. GS division :––––––––––––.
14. telephone Number :––––––––––––.
15. civil Status :––––––––––––.
16. Gender :––––––––––––.
17. Schools attended :––––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School or University attended :
Name of school/
University
Type of examination Year of 
examination
Subject passed
(Including grading)
ordinary Level: 
advanced Level:
other

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3526
19. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University: - (if applicable) :
Name and address of 
employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
20. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present Address
father
Mother
21. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
22. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ years etc.
and standards / levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
23. other achievements of note at School / University or at outside organizations (Give details with dates /years etc.):
:––––––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or boy Scout organization :––––––––––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :––––––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
27. if employed earlier in a Government department or in the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the central
bank, National bank, Universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government, etc.) reasons for termination
of employment :––––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials: -
Name Designation Postal Address
29. d eclaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honor that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for the Artificer branch in the Sri Lanka Navy published in the Gazette of the Government of 
Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
10–846

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3527
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTmENT  Of  CuLTuRAL  AffAIRS
State Radio Awards Ceremony - 2020
PREaMbLE
iN the history of electronic media in Sri Lanka, radio is 
the oldest form. Radio broadcasting in Sri Lanka was 
established by chief Engineer Edward Harper, on 16th of 
december 1925. Ninety three years have elapsed since the 
inception of Radio broadcasting in Sri Lanka.
although radio broadcasting institutions both britain 
and Sri Lanka are almost of the same age, whose 
establishment was in the first half of the 20th century, the 
british broadcasting corporation, or bbc, over the years 
reached the stature of a global trend setter in giant leaps and 
bounds to be the global broadcaster. However the position 
we gained as Sri Lankan radio 
broadcasters compare with 
others should be discussed at length. We are of the view that 
the more we discussed the better its development.
for decades, the bbc has been looked upon by global 
communities as the establishment in sound broadcasting. the 
policies, practices, ethical concepts creative innovations and 
the exemplary professionalism of 
bbc provided guidelines 
to broadcasting institutions in an extensive range of lands 
right round the world.
Some Sri Lankans found employment opportunities in 
the 
bbc and returned home enriched with broadcasting 
experiences, power of imagination and creativity that they 
were able to acquire at the host institution.
in the backdrop of that impressive background and 
history, our Radio channels too in cause of time has 
developed but there has never been an attention to recognize 
our radio achievements though State awards.
cinema, television, drama, Literature, dance and other 
forms of arts and crafts had their own system of state 
awards under the state patronage or any other institution. 
but for some reason sound broadcasting suffered neglect. 
However a number of tV channels developed during the 
past 3 decades have been attempting to satisfy the society 
with the programs of low taste and with inferior language 
merely to please the listeners. 
the responsibility of the state 
is to pave the way for the better creations to be broadcast 
for the entertainment of the masses. 
furthermore it is the 
responsibility of the state to institute standards to the relevant 
services and programs including the human resources and 
give due accolade to such programs broadcast over the 
radio. 
this will provide a strong impetus for the armature 
artistes to produce creations of excellence.
Under the above circumstances and considering their roles 
and responsibilities, the Ministry of Housing, construction 
and cultural affairs, the department of cultural affairs, 
the arts council of Sri Lanka and State advisory board of 
Radio have decided to hold this annual event of State Radio 
awards ceremony for the third time.
ObjectiveS
key Objective
direct the producers and channels to broadcast qualitative 
entertaining programs of great diversity which reflect the 
full range of audience's interests and broaden the intellect 
of people.
Other ObjectiveS
01. felicitate creations of higher standards and their
producers.
02. Present  awards  to  the doyens of the radio broad-
casting 
field of Sri Lanka who have rendered an
invaluable service to the field.
03. Encouragement for the amateur radio artistes in this
field.
04. Give guidance to the radio artistes in this field for a
better Radio broadcasting Service in Sri Lanka.
05. Provide the background for a highly efficient radio
art field.
State Radio Awards Ceremony - 2020
the radio broadcasting in Sri Lanka has a history of more 
than nine decades. it has been decided to hold the State Radio 
awards ceremony in the year 2020 also to accolade the 
radio artistes. the ceremony is organized by the Ministry of 
Housing, construction and cultural affairs, the department 
of cultural affairs, the arts council of Sri Lanka and State 
advisory board of Radio. this ceremony is open for all state 
and private radio channels that were registered under the 
telecommunication Regulatory commissions of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3528
catEGoRiES
01.  News and current affairs
1.1 best News Editor
1.2 best Presenter (Male)
l .3 best Presenter (female)
1.4  best investigative News Report
02.  various forms of Programmes
2.1 best feature Programme
2.2 best Music Programme
2.3 best comedy Programme
2.4 best discussion Programme
Special attention will be drawn to the creations produced 
on educational, religious, children’s, women’s, health, 
sports, environmental, national amity, cultural and arts 
themes.
03.
  Radio Drama
3.1 best Script Writer in Radio drama
3.2 best actor in Radio drama
3.3 best actress in Radio drama
3.4  best Production in Radio drama
3.5 best Script Writer in children’s Radio drama
3.6 best child actor in Radio drama
3.7 best child actress in Radio drama
3.8 best Production in children’s Radio drama
04.  Other Awards
4.1 best Narrator
4.2 best Studio compere (Male)
4.3 best Studio compere (female)
4.4 best Radio sound effect
4.5 best Jingle
4.6 best commentator (Live broadcasting)- Male/
female
05.  Prathibha Pranama Awards
“Prathibha Pranama” life time awards are presented to 
the doyens of the radio broadcasting field of Sri Lanka who 
have rendered an invaluable service to the field.
Conditions and other details
(Please read carefully before you fill the application)
01. Instructions
1.1 only the programmes produced and broadcast in
Sri Lanka could be presented.
 1.2 only the programmes broadcast during the period 
from 01st July 2018 to 30th June 2019 are eligible 
for entry.
 1.3 only the relevant application form should be used 
in applying for all categories.
 1.4 No. l - 5 of the application form should be filled by 
the applicant and for No. 6, the recommendation of 
the relevant Head of the 
institution/representative 
should be obtained.
02.  Selection of Awardees
2.1 awards will be presented only to the categories
mentioned above.
 2.2 Programs produced in Sinhala, tamil and English 
are considered to be presented with awards.
 2.3 Special awards of the Jury and the Merit awards 
will be presented to creative productions in 
addition to the main awards.
03. Applying
3.1 a single applicant could sent only one (01)
program under one category.
 3.2 applications should be sent separately for each 
category.
 3.3 in case of best Script Writer in Radio drama and 
best News Editor, the relevant script should be 
submitted.
04.  forwarding the entries
4.1 applications should accompany the cds of the
Radio Program you apply for. the applications 
and the cds once accepted will not be returned.
 4.2 the creations that are edited specially for this 
award ceremony, after the broadcasting, will not 
be considered for the awards.
 4.3 Entries are received only on week days from 
10.00 am to 3.00 pm.
 4.4 Entries should be sent to reach the director, 
department of Cultural Affairs, 8th floor, 
Sethsiripaya, battaramulla, before the 
closing date, by hand or by registered post.                                     

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3529
telephone - 0112872044, 0112872031- Lasanthi/
thanushanth/Vajira
05.  General Conditions
5.1 applications could be obtained by post by sending
a self - addressed stamped envelope to the address 
specified above. 
 5.2 applications could also be downloaded through 
www.calturaldept.gov.lk. 
 https://www.facebook.com/culturaldept.gov.
lk/?ref=bookmarks
 5.3 “State Radio Awards Ceremony - 2020” should be 
written on the top left hand comer of the envelope.
 5.4 closing date of entries is 30th october 2019 
(applications received after this date will not be 
accepted)
 5.5 the applicants should agree with the rules and 
regulations specified in this regard and the decision 
of the Jury shall be declared as the final.
anuSha gOkula FernanDO,
director of cultural affairs.
StatE  Radio  aWaRdS  cEREMoNy - 2020 
Department OF cultural aFFairS
entry FOrm
01. Name of the broadcasting institute :–––––––––––.
 1.1 Shorten form  :–––––––––––.
 1.2 address :–––––––––––.
1.3 fixed telephone No. :–––––––––––.
1.4 fax :–––––––––––.
1.5 Email :–––––––––––.
1.6 Web :–––––––––––.
02. Name of the applicant :–––––––––––.
2.1 Private address :–––––––––––.
2.2 Private telephone  :–––––––––––.
03. category of entry as per the descriptive pamphlet  :
(Ex:- best Script Writer in Radio drama)
 3.1 Name of the programme :–––––––––––.
 3.2 date and the time broadcast  :–––––––––––.
 3.3 duration of the programme: 
 hrs :––––––. minutes :––––––. seconds :––––––––.
04. contribution by others (Names of other contributors
such as production, script writing, acting, compere,
narrator, sound control, music etc...)
i. ....................................
ii. ....................................
 iii. ....................................
iv. ....................................
v. ....................................
vi. ....................................
 vii. ....................................
05. Statement of the applicant :
i ................................................. hereby agree with the 
rules and regulations of the State Radio awards ceremony 
2020 and I accept the decision of the Jury as the final.
i possess the power and authority to present the program/
creation titled  ................................................to State Radio 
awards ceremony 2020. i certify that no other institution or 
a person has claims on the ownership of the radio program 
/ creation presented by me. 
i myself shall be responsible to 
solve any issue which may arise in this regard.
Name of the applicant :.....................
Signature  ............................................  date :......................
06. Recommendation of the institute :
i recommend that the program/creation titled  .................
presented by .......................................... for State Radio 
awards ceremony 2020 was broadcast in this Radio channel 
during the period from 01st July 2018 and 30th June 2019. 
i shall be responsible for any issue arise thereof and action 
will be taken by me to mediate in any such issue.
Name of the Head of the 
institution /Representative :–––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Signature :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(Official Frank)
10–660

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3530
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION
The Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in 
Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service - 2019
it is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Officers in Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service as 
per the Service Minute No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 of the 
Sri Lanka Principals’ Service will be held in 
colombo in the 
month of february 2020.
02. the syllabus and the other Provisions that are
applicable to the examination have been published in the 
Gazette extraordinary No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. the syllabus 
(table 01) and the other provisions have been given below 
for the convenience of the candidates.
Subject
No.
Subject Time Marks Minimum
Pass Marks
01 School
administration
and
Supervision
3Hrs 100 40
02 School
Planning
3Hrs 100 40
03 New trends and 
practices of 
Education
3Hrs 100 40
Syllabus :
(i) School administration and Supervision :
Questions have been included to examine the
candidate’s knowledge and the comprehension
relating to the role of a Principal for good
governance of a school. 
it is expected to evaluate
the candidate’s knowledge on the fields of
school management methodologies, preparation
of timetables, delegation of responsibilities,
community participation for school development,
school based management, school based teacher
development, teachers’ welfare, student friendly
school concept, student centred education.
(ii) School Planning :
Questions are included to examine the knowledge of
candidate and the comprehension relating to
the role of a Principal in a school as a pioneer
of the development. 
it is expected to evaluate
the knowledge on school management boards,
vision and mission of school, preparation of 
school database, making collective plans, 
long-term and short-term plans, annual action plans 
and planning of school networks & resources, and 
contribution of the school towards the 
divisional 
development.
(iii) New Trends and Practices of education :
 it   is   expected   to   evaluate   the  knowledge  of
candidate on the subject matters such as new
concept on learning and teaching, learning by
experience, logical thinking, equality in education,
education for students with special needs, non-
formal education, adult education, lifelong
education, competency based education, Education
for living, student counselling and career guidance.
03. Medium of Language for the 
examination: - the
examination is held in Sinhala and tamil. the candidate 
should appear for the examination in one preferred language. 
candidates are not permitted to change the medium of 
language mentioned in their applications.
04. Result sheet including the results of all the candidates 
sat the Examination will be provided to the Secretary of 
the Ministry of Education. 
accordingly, the said results 
will be published in the website www.moe.gov.lk of the 
Ministry of Education. Personal result sheets of candidates 
of the Examination will not be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
05. in accordance with the specimen format given at the
end of this notice, the application should be prepared with 
the heading numbers 01 to 07 on the first page and the rest 
to be appeared on the second page and the particulars related 
to the application should be clearly completed in their own 
hand writing. 
the applications not in conformity with the 
specimen and the applications with incomplete particulars 
will be rejected without notice. It is notified that keeping 
a photocopy of the perfected application and the receipt 
related to the Examination fee will be beneficial. Further, 
candidate should be attentive on whether the perfected 
application is in conformity with the specimen application 
mentioned in the notification of the Examination. 
it is further 
informed that the application will be rejected in case 
of any inconsistency with such standard. further, the 
title of the Examination in Sinhala application should 
be mentioned in English Language in addition to Sinhala 
Language, and in 
tamil application in English Language in 
addition to tamil Language.
Punishment for the provision of false information:

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3531
accurate information should be carefully provided in 
filing the application. The candidature can be cancelled in any 
occasion prior to the Examination or during the examination 
or after the examination if it is revealed that a candidate is 
not eligible in terms of the Rules and Regulations of this 
Examination.
06.
the Examination will be conducted by the
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates 
are bound to follow the Rules and Regulations imposed 
by him for the conduct of the Examination. 
the Rules and 
Regulations for the Examination have been published at the 
end of this Gazette Notification.
07. applications should be sent by the Registered Post
through divisional director of Education/Zonal  director of 
Education or additional Provincial director of Education/
Provincial director of Education or through the Head 
of your institution to reach commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations Sri Lanka, Post 
box 1503, colombo on or before 18th November 2019. 
applications received after this date will be rejected.
08. With the presumption that only the candidates having
qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification have 
applied for the Examination, admissions shall be issued by 
the 
commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates 
who have submitted duly perfected applications along with 
the receipt issued after paying the Examination fee; if 
applicable, on or before the closing date of applications. 
a 
newspaper notification on the issuance of admissions shall be 
published by the department of Examinations immediately 
after issuing admissions to candidates. a candidate who 
does not receive his/her admission 02 or 03 days after 
publishing the notification should inform the Department of 
Examinations as indicated in the advertisement. 
full name, 
address, National identity card Number of the candidate 
and the title of the Examination for which the candidate has 
applied should be indicated in notifying the department. if 
the candidate resides outside colombo, it will be effective to 
fax a request letter along with such details of the candidate 
including a fax Number of the candidate to receive a copy 
of the admission via fax, to the 
fax No. mentioned in the 
Notification. In order to substantiate the candidateship, it 
will be useful to be in readiness to produce a copy of the 
application that was kept by candidate, a copy of the receipt 
obtained if payment of examination fees is applicable and 
the receipt issued for sending the application in registered 
post when making inquiries from the 
department of 
Examinations. issuance of an admission to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that he/she has 
fulfilled qualifications to sit the Examination.
09. (i) Signature of the candidate both in the application
and the admission issued for the Examination should have 
been certified by the Head of the Institution or an Officer 
authorized by the Head of the 
institution. a candidate should 
sit the Examination at the examination hall prescribed for 
him/her under the prescribed 
index No. and should hand 
over the admission, in which his/her signature has been 
attested to the Supervisor of the Examination on the day of 
the Examination. 
a candidate, who does not submit his /her 
admission, is not permitted to sit the Examination.
(ii) complaints (submitted later) by candidates, who
fail to fulfil the requirements mentioned in the paragraph 08 
above, will not be entertained.
10. the candidates should prove their identity at the
Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor of 
Examinations in relation to every subject that they appear 
for. 
any of the followings are accepted to prove the identity.
(i) National identity card,
(ii) t he valid Passport,
(iii) a valid driving License of Sri Lanka.
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering the face and the ears so that their identity 
can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity 
will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, 
the candidates should remain without covering the face and 
the ears from the moment they enter the examination hall 
until they leave there after examination enabling the officials 
to identify the candidates.
11.
examination Fees :
(a) f ees charged for this Examination will not be
refunded under any circumstances and it is not
allowed to transfer the fees as a fee for another
examination.
(b) f ees will not be charged for the entire
Examination or part thereof in the first sitting.
(c) t he fees charged subsequently for each sitting
has been mentioned below:
 for the full Examination : Rs. 500/-
 for one Subject : Rs. 250/-
the receipt obtained by paying this Examination fee to 
any Post Office/Sub Post Office of the Island to be credited 
to the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations should be affixed firmly on the 
specified place of the application. It will be beneficial for 
the candidate to retain a photocopy of the receipt.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3532
12. candidates are subject to rules and regulations
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations on 
the conduct of Examinations and releasing of results. it is 
informed that candidate is liable to any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations in case of 
violating such rules and regulations.
13. in case of any inconsistency between the texts of this
notification published in Sinhala and Tamil languages, the 
notification in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
14.
further, the Secretary to the Ministry of Education
reserves the right of taking decision on any matter which is 
not covered by this notification.
 m.n. ranaSinghe,
Secretary.
Ministry of Education.
at the Ministry of Education, 
“Isurupaya”, Pelawatte,
04th 
october, 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
Y%S ,xld úÿy,am;s fiajfha 2 jk mka;sfha ks,OdÍka i|yd 
jk ld¾hCIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2019
eFFiciency bar examinatiOn FOr OFFicerS in claSS 2 in Sri 
lanka principalS’ Service-2019
(Please submit by registered post to reach the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations and foreign 
Examination branch, department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka, P. b.1503, colombo through divisional or Zonal 
director of Education/ additional Provincial director of 
Education/ Provincial director of Education. the title of 
the Examination should be mentioned in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope.)
01. Language Medium of sitting the Examination: (State the
relevant Number inside the cage)
Sinhala  - 2
 tamil - 3
02. (i)  Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––.
 (eg.:HERatH MU diyaNSELaGE S aMaN 
KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
(ii)  Name by indicating the Last name at the beginning
and initials of the other names at the end :–––––––.
(in English block capitals):
(Eg: GUNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
(iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. address:
(i) Private address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––.
(iii) address to which the admission should be sent
:–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals):
(iv) Telephone No: (Official) :–––––––––––.
04. (i)  class/Grade in the Principals’ Service :–––––––.
(ii) School/Office :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Provincial department of Education/ Zonal
Education Office :–––––––––––. 
05. (i) National identity card Number:
(ii)  date of birth:
 year : Month :              date :
(iii) Sex:
Male  - 0
 female  - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the cage)
06. Mobile Phone No. :
07. Subjects applied for with the subject Number mentioned
under Para 02 (a) of the Gazette Notification.
Subject No. 01 - School administration and
 Supervision
Subject No. 02 - School Planning
Subject No. 03 - New trends and practices in
Education
 Write the relevant Subject number/s inside the cage/s
08. The Officers, who have passed the Subject of Education
Administration and Supervision in the Efficiency Bar
Examination conducted previously in accordance with
the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service Minute of No. 1086/26 
dated 02.07.1999 are exempted from the requirement
of passing the Subject of School 
administration and
Supervision in this 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination as
per the 
circular No. 33/2014 issued by the Ministry of
Education. if you have passed the Subject, indicate the
year, Pass obtained and the medium

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3533
Subject Year Pass Medium
Education administration and 
Supervision
09. Examination fees:
(i) Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which examinations
feewas paid :–––––––––––.
(ii) amount Paid :–––––––––––.
(iii) d ate of payment :–––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
Firmly affix the receipt here from an edge of it 
(it may be useful to keep a copy of the receipt with you)
10. i  do hereby declare that the aforementioned information 
is accurate. further, i do agree to abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting the Examination and on 
releasing results.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
date  :–––––––––––.
11 .commissioner General of Examinations :
I do certify that the aforementioned candidate is an officer 
of my division/Zone/Province and placed his/her signature 
today before me. further, i do certify that the candidate is 
exempted from paying the Examination fees/candidate has 
affixed the receipt issued after paying the Examination Fees 
accurately.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of divisional or Zonal director 
of Education/additional Provincial 
 director of Education/ Provincial 
 director of Education.
address  :–––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
(Please delete the inapplicable words)
10–659/1
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
The Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in 
Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service - 2019
it is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Officers in Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service as 
per the Service Minute No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 of the 
Sri Lanka Principals’ Service will be held in 
colombo in the 
month of february 2020.
02. the syllabus and the other Provisions that are
applicable to the examination have been published in the 
Gazette extraordinary No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. the 
examination procedure ( table 01) and the syllabus ( table 
02) have been given below for the convenience of the
candidates.
(a) (Table 01) - examination Procedure :
Subject
No. Subject Time Marks
Minimu 
m Pass 
Marks
01
Provisions of the 
Establishments 
code 
and the Procedural 
rules of the Public 
Service 
commission
2 Hrs 100 40
02
financial
administration 
in Schools and 
financial Regulations
2 Hrs 100 40
(b) (Table 02) - Syllabus :
Subject
No. Subject Syllabus
01 Provisions of the
Establishments
code and the
Procedural rules 
of the Public 
Service
commission
Provisions of the
Establishments 
code and
the Procedural rules of the
Public Service 
commission
- Knowledge in the
chapters Vii, Viii, iX, X,
Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi,
XXVii, XXViii, XXiX,
XXX, XXXi, XXXii,
XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii of
the Establishments code
and the Procedural Rules
of the Public Service
commission are examined.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3534
DEPARTmENT Of CuLTuRALAffAIRS
State Radio Awards Ceremony - 2020
PREaMbLE
iN the history of electronic media in Sri Lanka, radio is the oldest form. 
Radio broadcasting in Sri Lanka was established by chief Engineer Edward 
Harper, on 16th of december 1925. Ninety three years have elapsed since 
the inception of Radio broadcasting in Sri Lanka.
although radio broadcasting institutions both britain and Sri Lanka are 
almost of the same age, whose establishment was in the first half of the 
20th century, the british broadcasting corporation, or bbc, over the years 
reached the stature of a global trend setter in giant leaps and bounds to be 
the global broadcaster. However the position we gained as Sri Lankan radio 
broadcasters compare with others should be discussed at length. We are of 
the view that the more we discussed the better its development.
for decades, the bbc has been looked upon by global communities as 
the establishment in sound broadcasting. the policies, practices, ethical 
concepts creative innovations and the exemplary professionalism of bbc
provided guidelines to broadcasting institutions in an extensive range of 
lands right round the world.
Some Sri Lankans found employment opportunities in the bbc and 
returned home enriched with broadcasting experiences, power of imagination 
and creativity that they were able to acquire at the host institution.
in the backdrop of that impressive background and history, our Radio 
channels too in cause of time has developed but there has never been an 
attention to recognize our radio achievements though State awards.
Linema, television, drama, Literature, dance and other forms of arts and 
crafts had their own system of state awards under the state patronage or any 
other institution. but for some reason sound broadcasting suffered neglect. 
However a number of tV channels developed during the past 3 decades 
have been attempting to satisfy the society with the programs of low taste 
and with inferior language merely to please the listeners. the responsibility 
of the state is to pave the way for the better creations to be broadcast for the 
entertainment of the masses. furthermore it is the responsibility of the state 
to institute standards to the relevant services and programs including the 
human resources and give due accolade to such programs broadcast over the 
radio. this will provide a strong impetus for the armature artistes to produce 
creations of excellence.
Under the above circumstances and considering their roles and 
responsibilities, the Ministry of Housing, construction and cultural affairs, 
Subject
No. Subject Syllabus
02
financial 
administration 
in Schools 
and financial 
Regulations
General knowledge on 
circulars issued on budget 
Estimates, financial 
control and delegation of 
financial Responsibility, 
cash receiving, accounting 
and acceptance, Payments, 
custodianship of Public 
finance, imprest and bank 
accounts, Works and 
Services, boards of Survey, 
audit queries, Ledgers 
using at the Public Offices, 
Summaries on Revenue 
and Expenditure, 
bank 
Reconciliations, unpaid 
salaries, Official telephones 
and on the 
financial 
Regulation are examined
03. Medium of Language for the examination: - the
examination is held in Sinhala and tamil. the candidate 
should appear for the examination in one preferred language. 
candidates are not permitted to change the medium of 
language mentioned in their applications.
04. Result sheet including the results of all the candidates 
sat the Examination will be provided to the Secretary of 
the Ministry of Education. accordingly, the said results 
will be published in the website www.moe.gov.lk of the 
Ministry of Education, Personal result sheets of 
candidates 
of the Examination will not be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
05. in accordance with the specimen format given at
the end of this notice, the application should be prepared 
with the heading numbers 01 to 07 on the first page 
and the rest to be appeared on the second page and the 
particulars related to the application should be clearly 
completed in their own hand writing. 
the applications 
not in conformity with the specimen and the applications 
withincomplete particulars will be rejected without notice. 
It is notified that keeping a photocopy of the perfected  
application and the receipt related to the Examination  
fee will be beneficial. Further, candidate should be 
attentive on whether the perfected application is in 
conformity with the specimen application mentioned  
in the notification of the Examination. It is further 
informed that the application will be rejected in case 
of any inconsistency with such standard. 
further, the 
title of the Examination in Sinhala application should 
be mentioned in English Language in addition to 
Sinhala Language, and in 
tamil application in 
English Language in addition to tamil Language.
Punishment for the provision of false information:
accurate information should be carefully provided in 
filing the application. The candidature can be 
cancelled in any occasion prior to the Examination or 
during the examination or after the examination if it is 
revealed that a candidate is not eligible in terms of the 
Rules and Regulations of this Examination.
06.
 t he Examination will be conducted by the
commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates are bound to follow the Rules and 
Regulations imposed by him for the conduct of the 
Examination. 
the Rules and Regulations for the 
Examination have been published at the end of this 
Gazette Notification.
07.
 a pplications should be sent by the Registered
Post through divisional director of Education/Zonal  
director of Education or additional Provincial director of 
Education/Provincial director of Education or through the 
Head of your institution to reach commissioner General 
of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations Sri Lanka, Post box 
1503, colombo on or before 18th November 2019. 
applications received after this date will be rejected.
08. With the presumption that only the candidates
having qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the Examination, admissions shall be 
issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidates who have submitted duly perfected 
applications along with the receipt issued after paying the 
Examination fee; if applicable, on or before the closing date 
of applications. A newspaper notification on the issuance 
of admissions shall be published by the 
department of 
Examinations immediately after issuing admissions to 
candidates. 
a candidate who does not receive his/her 
admission 02 or 03 days after publishing the notification 
should inform the 
department of Examinations as indicated 
in the advertisement. full name, address, National 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3535
identity card Number of the candidate and the title of the 
Examination for which the candidate has applied should 
be indicated in notifying the department. if the candidate 
resides outside colombo, it will be effective to fax a request 
letter along with such details of the candidate including a fax 
Number of the candidate to receive a copy of the admission 
via fax, to the Fax No. mentioned in the Notification. In 
order to substantiate the candidateship, it will be useful to 
be in readiness to produce a copy of the application that was 
kept by candidate, a copy of the receipt obtained if payment 
of examination fees is applicable and the receipt issued for 
sending the application in registered post when making 
inquiries from the 
department of Examinations. issuance of 
an admission to a candidate should not be considered as an 
acceptance that he/she has fulfilled qualifications to sit the 
Examination.
09. (i) Signature of the candidate both in the application
and the admission issued for the Examination should have 
been certified by the Head of the Institution or an Officer 
authorized by the Head of the 
institution. a candidate should 
sit the Examination at the examination hall prescribed for 
him/her under the prescribed 
index No. and should hand 
over the admission, in which his/her signature has been 
attested to the Supervisor of the Examination on the day of 
the Examination. 
a candidate, who does not submit his /her 
admission, is not permitted to sit the Examination.
(ii) complaints (submitted later) by candidates, who fail
to fulfil the requirements mentioned in the paragraph 08 
above, will not be entertained.
10.
the candidates should prove their identity at the
Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor of 
Examinations in relation to every subject that they appear 
for. 
any of the followings are accepted to prove the identity.
(i)  National identity card,
(ii)  the valid Passport,
(iii) a valid driving License of Sri Lanka.
further, the candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering the face and the ears-so that their identity 
can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity 
will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, 
the candidates should remain without covering the face and 
the ears from the moment they enter the examination hall 
until they leave there after examination enabling the officials 
to identify the candidates.
11.
examination Fees :
(a) fees charged for this Examination will not be
refunded under any circumstances and it is not
allowed to transfer the fees as a fee for another 
examination.
(b)
fees will not be charged for the entire
Examination or part thereof in the first sitting.
(c) the fees charged subsequently for each sitting
has been mentioned below:
 for the full Examination : Rs. 500/-
 for one Subject : Rs. 250/-
the receipt obtained by paying this Examination fee to 
any Post Office/Sub Post Office of the Island to be credited 
to the revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner 
General of Examinations should be affixed firmly on the 
specified place of the application. It will be beneficial for 
the candidate to retain a photocopy of the receipt.
12.
candidates are subject to rules and regulations
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations on 
the conduct of Examinations and releasing of results. it is 
informed that candidate is liable to any punishment imposed 
by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in case of 
violating such rules and regulations.
13. in case of any inconsistency between thetexts of this
notification published in Sinhala and Tamil languages, the 
notification in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
14.
further, the Secretary to the Ministry of Education
reserves the right of taking decision on any matter which is 
not covered by this notification.
M.N. ranaSinghe,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education
at the Ministry of Education, 
“Isurupaya”, Pelawatte,
04th 
october, 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
Y%S ,xld úÿy,am;s fiajfha 3 jk mka;sfha ks,OdÍka i|yd 
jk ld¾hCIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2019
eFFiciency bar examinatiOn FOr OFFicerS in claSS 3 in 
Sri lanka principalS’ Service-2019
(Please submit by registered post to reach the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations and foreign 
Examination branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,                                             

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2019
3536
P.b.1503, colombo through divisional or Zonal director 
of Education/additional Provincial director of Education/ 
Provincial director of Education. the title of the 
Examination should be mentioned in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope.)
01. Language Medium of sitting the Examination: (State the
relevant Number inside the cage)
Sinhala  - 2
 tamil - 3
02. (i)  Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––.
 (eg.:HERatH MU diyaNSELaGE S aMaN 
KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
(ii)  Name by indicating the Last name at the beginning
and initials of the other names at the end :–––––––.
(in English block capitals):
(eg: GUNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
(iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. address:
(i) Private address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––––.
(iii) address to which the admission should be sent
:–––––––––––.
 (in English block capitals):
(iv) Telephone No: (Official) :–––––––––––.
04. (i)  class/Grade in the Principals’ Service :–––––––.
(ii) School/Office :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Provincial department of Education/ Zonal
Education Office :–––––––––––.
05. (i) National identity card Number:
(ii)  date of birth:
 year : Month :              date :
(iii) Sex:
Male  - 0
 female  - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the cage)
06. Mobile Phone No. :
07. Subjects applied for with the subject Number mentioned
under Para 02 (a) of the Gazette Notification.
Subject No. 01 - Provisions of the Establishments
  code and the Procedural rules of the Public 
 Service commission 
Subject No. 02 - financial administration in 
 Schools and financial Regulations
 Write the relevant Subject number/s inside the cage/s
08. Examination fees:
(i) Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which examinations
fee was paid :–––––––––––.
(ii) amount Paid :–––––––––––.
(iii) d ate of payment :–––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
Firmly affix the receipt here from an edge of it 
(it may be useful to keep a copy of the receipt with you)
09. i  do hereby declare that the aforementioned information 
is accurate. further, i do agree to abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting the Examination and on 
releasing results.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
date  :–––––––––––.
10. commissioner General of Examinations :
I do certify that the aforementioned candidate is an officer
of my division/Zone/Province and placed his/her signature 
today before me. further, i do certify that the candidate is 
exempted from paying the Examination fees/candidate has 
affixed the receipt issued after paying the Examination Fees 
accurately.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of divisional or Zonal director 
of Education/additional Provincial 
director of Education/ Provincial 
director of Education.
address  :–––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
(Please delete the inapplicable words)
10–659/2
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.