

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
1 A – G 17564 — 350 (2013/04)
wxl 1807$4 - 2013 wfm%a,a ui 22 jeks i÷od - 2013'04'22
No. 1807/4  -  MONDAY ,   APRIL   22,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
My No.  : CI/1800.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  (CHAPTER  131)
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Mackwoods
(Pvt) Ltd., No. 10, Gnanaratha Pradeepa Mawatha, Colombo
10 the one part and the United Tea, Rubber and Local Produce
Workers’ Union, No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5
of the other part on 18th day of August 2011 is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
27th March, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 37 of 2011
The Collective Agreement made this 18th day of August
Two Thousand and Eleven pursuant to the Industrial Disputes
Act between Mackwoods (Pvt) Ltd., a Company duly
registered in Sri Lanka under the Companies Ordinance and
having their registered office at No. 10, Gnanartha Pradeepa
Mawatha, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as “The
Employer”) of the One Part and The United Tea, Rubber and
Local Produce Workers’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered
and having its registered office at No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala
Mawatha, Colombo 5 (hereinafter referred to as “The Union”)
of the Other Part.
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as
follows :-
PART  I
Containing terms and conditions of employment and
matters incidental thereto and connected with.
1. Employer Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind Mackwoods (Pvt)
Ltd. (The Employer).
2. Employees Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the members of the
Union who are employed on permanent monthly contracts of
employment in a driver/manual/labouring capacity in the
Establishment of the Employer in grades of employment
enumerated in the First Schedule hereto and are in employment
at the time of signing of this Agreement.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
3. Earlier Collective Agreements
The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and
replace the provisions of whatever other earlier Collective
Agreement or Memorandum of Settlement signed between
parties to this Agreement and any such agreement or
memorandum of settlement shall stand terminated from the
01st day of January Two Thousand and Eleven.
4. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of
January Two Thousand and Eleven and thereafter continue in
force unless it is determined by either party giving three
months’ notice in writing to the other subject to the condition
that neither party shall give such notice to the other party
before the Thirtieth day of September Two Thousand and
Thirteen and such notice shall not expire before the Thirty
First day of December Two Thousand and Thirteen.
5. General Terms and conditions of Employment
During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms
and conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be
included in each contract of service between the Employer
bound by this Agreement and an Employee covered and bound
by the Agreement, whether such contract of service be written
or oral, which was subsisting on the date thereof or which
shall come into being at any time after the date hereof during
the continuance in force of this Agreement.
6. Probation
Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a
period of probation of not more than six (6) months, provided
however that if during the six (6) months probationary period
the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such
Employee, the probationary period may be extended for a
further period of three (3) months and in that event the
Employer shall indicate to the Employee in writing the reason
why the probationary period has been extended. During the
period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall
have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without
notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for
unsatisfactory service during the period of probation or
extended probation and has not been confirmed by the
Employer he shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s
service with effect from the day after the day on which the
period of probation as the case may be ended.
7. Attendance
1 . Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the
Employer an Employee shall present himself for work
on every day (other than a holiday) at the usual starting
time of the office, store, factory, mill or job and shall
there remain available for work throughout the normal
working hours.
2. If at an office, store, factory, mill or job work is temporarily
not available for an employee in his own occupation, he
shall be deemed to be ready and willing to perform work
within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at
any other work site of the Employer where work is
available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee
shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be
liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
8. Hours of Work
The hours of wok in the employer’s establishments shall
be those customarily worked.
9. Forfeiture of Wages
Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the
Employer an employee fails to hold himself available fo work
throughout the normal working hours of each working day he
shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs
until he is again available for work.
10. Overtime
1. If required by this Employer an Employee shall work
reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the
Employer. Refusal to work overtime in the absence of a
satisfactory explanation which is acceptable  to the
Employer shall constitute neglect of duty for which an
employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary
action.
2. Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal
working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one
half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in
accordance with the provisions of 18 (a) hereof.
11. Weekly Holiday
1. In respect of each week each Employee shall be allowed
a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly
holiday. Provided however that if any Employee has
not worked for a period of at least twenty-eight (28)
hours, exclusive of any period of overtime work during
that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer
shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of
this weekly holiday for that week in accordance with
the provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
2. In computing the period of twenty-eight (28) hours
referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall
include -
(a) every holiday allowed by the Employer to the
Employee as annual holiday ;
(b) every public holiday granted by the Employer in
terms of clause 12 thereof ; and
(c) every day’s absence on any ground approved by
the Employer.
3. The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly
holiday subject to the following conditions :
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such
weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee
as a holiday with remuneration. Provided however
that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly
holiday is liable to forfeit and his Employer is entitled
to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly
holiday as provided in sub-clause (1), then and in
such event that Employee shall forfeit and his
Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage
computed in accordance with the provisions of
clause 18 (b) hereof in respect of the holiday which
shall be allowed to that Employee within six (6)
days of that weekly holiday, provided further that
in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month an Employer
may with the consent of the Employee -
(a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday within
six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of
which that Employee shall not be liable to forfeit
and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct
one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one day’s
wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of clause 18 hereof in lieu of such
alternate holiday, or
(b) in case that Employee is entitled to an alternate
holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday
as aforesaid in respect of which alternate holiday
he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer
shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage as
aforesaid employ that Employee on the alternate
holiday.
(ii) In respect of work done on such weekly holiday
the Employee shall be paid as remuneration -
(a) one and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly
rate ascertained in accordance with the
provisions of clause 18 hereof for the number of
hours worked during the first nine (9) hours
(exclusive of one hour for a meal) ; and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in
accordance with the provisions of clause 18
hereof for each subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to
Employees engaged on work outside the business
premises of the Employer for periods exceeding twelve
(12) days in respect of the duration of each such period.
12. Annual Holidays
Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in
accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board if any
applicable to such Employee or the Coir Mattress and Bristle
Fibre Export Trade.
13. Pubic Holidays
1. Public Holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in
accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for
the Engineering Trade. Provided however, that an
Employee may be employed on a Public Holiday in
accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for
the Engineering Trade.
2. If any Public Holiday to which an Employee is eligible
under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday,
a day either in the six (6) days immediately preceding or
in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such Public
Holiday shall be granted to the Employee as a weekly
holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 11
hereof.
3. If any Public Holiday to which an Employee is eligible
under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a
Saturday, the number of hours constituting the normal
working day (inclusive of one hour for a meal) on the
day immediately preceeding such Public Holiday shall
be six and one half (6 1/2) hours.
14. Casual Leave
1. In respect of each year of employment during which
any Employee has been continuously in employment
he shall be entitled to take on account of private business
or other reasonable cause including ill health if that
Employee’s entitlement to sick leave has been fully
utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”)
with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of
periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer
shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay
such remuneration. Provided however, that not more
than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any one
time save and except upon the ground of ill health.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
Provided further that an employee shall not be entitled
to take casual leave immediately preceding or
immediately following any period of annual holidays.
Provided further that in respect of any Employee’s first
year of employment including any period of probation
he shall be entitled to casual leave for that year computed
on the basis of one day for each complete period of two
month’s service.
2. Casual leave will normally be granted on application
without the Employee being required to state the reason
for the application. Where an Employer finds it difficult
to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty
shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible
after the application is made and in such case the
Employee may be required to state the reason for the
application in order that the Employer may decide
whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant
casual leave.
15. Sick Leave
In any year an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not
exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that -
(a) his illness is supported by a certificate from a registered
medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer)
and
(b) the Employee shall not be on probation within the
meaning of clause 6 hereof. Provided however, that an
Employee who has been on probation shall as from the
date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the
first year of employment be entitled to sick leave not
exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6)
months’ probation and sick leave not exceeding five (5)
days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
16. Salaries
The salaries of all employees who were in employment as
at 01st January 2011 and continue to be employment as at
the date of signing of this Agreement shall be revised as
follows :
(1) A sum equivalent to 10% of the salary of an employee
as at December 2010 shall be added to the salary with
effect from 01st January 2011.
(2) Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 500 will be consolidated into
the salary of the employee with effect from 01st January
2011.
(3) A sum equivalent to 5% of the salary of an employee as
at December 2011 shall be added to the salary with effect
from 01st January 2012.
(4) Thereafter a sum of Rs. 500 will be consolidated into the
salary of the employee with effect from 01st January
2012.
(5) A sum equivalent to 5% of the salary of an employee as
at December 2012 shall be added to the salary with effect
from 01st January 2013.
(6) Thereafter a sum of Rs. 600 will be consolidated into the
salary of the employee with effect from 01st January
2013.
Every Employee in employment as at the date of signing
of this agreement will be entitled to receive by way of
notional arrears for the period 1st January 2011 to 30th
June 2011, a sum equivalent to the amount mentioned in
(1) above X 6 and the sum mentioned in (2) above X 6.
Notional arrears so calculated will not attract any
consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF, Over time,
etc.
(7) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the
Government of Sri Lanka -
(a) prescribes increases in wages by any written Law
applicable to categories covered by this Agreement
legally obliging the Employers to make such
payment the Employers shall pay such increases in
wages prescribed by such written law and in terms
of such written law :
(b) recommends increases in wages, such recommen-
dations will not be applicable to the Employer,
irrespective of whether or not such recommen-
dations are applicable to categories covered by the
Agreement.
17. Wages for Periods less than One Month
For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any
Employee for periods less than one month shall be computed
in the manner following :
a. for one hour the monthly wage divided by
two hundred and forty (240)
b. for one day the monthly wage divided by
thirty (30)
c. for one-half day a day’s wage ascertained as
(either morning or above divided by 2
afternoon)
d. for one week a day’s wage ascertained as
above multiplied by seven (7)

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
18. Lump sum payment
(1) A lump sum payment of Rs. 14,000 for each year
commencing from 1st January 2011 payable in January
the following year in respect of the preceding twelve
(12) months (1st January to 31st December hereinafater
referred to as the qualifying period’) will be paid to each
employee covered and bound by this agreement in lieu
of non-recurring cost of living gratuity. (NRCLG).
(2) The lump sum payment shall be payable by the Employer
to an Employee who is eligible to receive the same by
virtue of his service under the Employer during a part of
the qualifying year by reason of the fact that he is not in
the Employer’s service when the lump sum payment
becomes due in January of any year or he joined the
Employer’s service during the course of the qualifying
year.
(3) The lump sum payment shall not be payable to an
Employee in respect of any period for which he received
no wages for whatever reason.
(4) No provident fund, trust fund, overtime or any other
payment shall be due or calculated on the lump sum
payment.
19. Work Norms
Consequent to the salary increase granted to the employees
under this Agreement, it is agreed by and between the
Employer, Union and the employees that the employees in
carrying out their normal daily work shall achieve and maintain
the work norms set out in the Second Schedule hereto in
respect of the various areas of work identified therein.
20. Provident Fund
(1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the
Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund
Act, No. 46 of 1980, where the Employer and the
Employee as at the date hereof were contributing to a
Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those
prescribed by the Employees’ Provident Fund Act, the
more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
21. Terminal Benefits
(1) The Employer will subject as hereinafter provided pay
terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the
scheme of terminal benefits set out in this Clause.
(2) The scheme shall apply to every Employee in the service
of the Employer as at First November 1988 and to those
who joined the service of the Employer on any day
thereafter, so long as this Agreement continues in force.
(3) As and by way of terminal benefits the Employer shall
pay an Employee a sum equivalent to one month’s wages
for each year of service less the Employer’s contribution
to the Provident Fund and trust Funds but excluding
interest thereon.
(4) The wage on which he said terminal benefits under sub-
clause 3 hereof shall be payable will be the last monthly
wage receivable by an Employee on which Provident
Fund is payable and shall not include any non-recurring
cost of living gratuity.
(5) For the purpose of calculating terminal benefits under
this clause a year of service shall be a period of not less
than six months.
(6) The terminal benefits provided for in this clause shall
be payable to an Employee on the cessation of his
services arising from death or any other cause,
whatsoever. Provided however, that if at the date of
cessation of an Employee’s service there is due to his
Employer from the Employee any sum on account of
fraud, misappropriation or any other account and the
same cannot be recovererd from the amount in the
Employee’s credit in the Provident Fund the same shall
be recovered from the terminal benefits provided for
herein.
(7) The provisions of this clause shall not apply to
Employers who operate a more favourable scheme of
terminal benefits.
(8) On the death of an Employee whilst in service and is
eligible to receive terminal benefits under this Clause,
the Employer shall pay such terminal benefits in the
manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth -
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose
of the deceased Employee’s Provident Fund at the
date of his death to the nominee or nominees of
such Employee in conformity with the form of
nomination where such nominee is surviving and
of full age.
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event
of the nominee or any or more of the nominees
having pre-deceased the Employee or in the event
of the nominee being a minor at the time that the

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
payment of the terminal benefits become due, the
Employer shall make payment only after the person
or persons entitled to the payment have established
their claim in Law and furnished proof thereof.
(9) In the event of any written law providing for the payment
of gratuity or terminal benefits the more favourable
scheme shall apply but not both.
(10) No Employee shall be entitled to any gratuity or terminal
benefits in addition to the terminal benefits provided
for in this clause or by any written law as the case may
be.
22. Bonus
(1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and
without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus
payments in the past and as provided in this Agreement
are ex-gratia, the Employer will subject as hereinafter
provided, continue to pay to each of his Employees a
bonus which” will not be less than the sum of money
paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of this Agreement. If in any year
the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an
amount less than the sum of money paid to each of his
Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding
the signing of this Agreement, the Employees may
canvass such reduction of bonus with the Employer
concerned, If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer
in the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon (hereinfter called the
“Federation”). If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus
is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be
referred to a Committee of three persons (hereinafter
referred to as “a Bonus Committee”) which shall be
constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-
clause (2) for settlement in the manner hereinafter
set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to
the reduction of the bonus, the Commissioner of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist
of three Senior Accountants nominated by the Council
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with
at least 10 years post qualification experience, The
selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be
communicated by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants to the Commissioner of Labour, to the
Employer, the Employees and the Federation,
Thereupon the Commissioner of Labour will
communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus
Committee so constituted a Statement of Principales
and Procedure by which the members of the Bonus
Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute as the
reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the Statement of
the Principles and ; Procedure from the Commissioner
of Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance
with the said Principles and Procedures decide whether
the reduction of the bonus by the Employer was justified
and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if
any, the bonus shall be reduced. The Bonus Committee
shall communicate the decision in writing to the
Federation, the Employees and the Commissioner of
Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is
unanimous such decision shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Employees or anyone
or more of them and/or its or their members shall not
pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union
action or otherwise during the continuance in force of
this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided by its decision, then the decision of the
Commissioner of Labour on the matter shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the
Commissioner’s decision shall be communicated in
writing by the Commissioner of Labour to the Federation
and the Employees and/or its members shall not pursue
the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or
otherwise during the continuance in force of this
Agreement.
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be
competent to decide that in any year an Employer should
pay his Employee a bonus exceeding the sum of money
paid as bonus in the year immediately preceding the
signing of this Agreement.
(5) The fees payable to the members of each Bonus
committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the
dispute as to the reduction of bonus and be payable on
demand by the Commissioner of Labour.
(6) The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money
paid as bonus to Employees in the year immediately
preceding the signing of this Agreement shall be in the
sole discretion of each Employer and shall not be called
in question by the Employees nor shall any Employer’s
failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of
any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and
(6) shall mutatis mutandis  apply to existing bonus
schemes.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(8) At the request of the Commissioner of Labour, the
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka will nominate three Chartered Accountants with
not less than 10 years of post qualification experience
drawn from professional Accountancy Firms to serve
on the Bonus Committee.
23. Annual Increments
The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales
of consolidated wages in the First Schedule hereto shall be
automatic unless as a matter of punishment for general
inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality
or disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an
increment is suspended, stopped or deferred, in which “case
where an increment is -
(a) deferred the loss of increment shall be continuous
throughout the year ;
(b) stopped, the loss of increment will only be for the period
of stoppage during the year ;
(c) suspended, the increment is suspended pending a
decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision
being dependent upon a  consideration of the factors
giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision
an increment is neither stopped nor deferred, then the
suspension shall be treated as waived and the full
increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
accrue to the Employee concerned. Deferment, stoppage
or suspension of an incremental shall only be effected
in cases where the employee has been notified in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been
found guilty after due Inquiry or inefficiency, fraud or
misconduct, which in the circumstances does not merit
termination of employment.
(d) The scales of the consolidated wages set out in
Schedule I hereto include all statutory allowances as at
the date of this agreement.
(e) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing
the incremental date of an Employee.
24. Warning
If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a
warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If
the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may
be given to the employee orally by the employer in the presence
of two witnesses.
25. Suspension
(1) An Employee may be suspended without pay by his
employer :-
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on
a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants
dismissal.
(b) in order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage
to the property or disturbance of the business of
the Employer.
(c) as a punishment for misconduct for a period not
exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1) (a) or
within twenty four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall
provide the Employee with a written order of suspension
specifying  the reason or charges in terms of clause 26
hereof.
26. Disciplinary Action
Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an
Employee then -
(1) irrespective of whether an Employee has been
suspending under Clause 25 hereof or not, the Employee
shall be furnished with a show cause notice which shall
set out the particulars of the charge or charges of
misconduct alleged against such Employee and such
show cause notice which shall give the Employee not
less than three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges
preferred.
(2) within three (3) clear working days after the date of the
show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing
to the Employer the answer or explanation to the charge
preferred against such Employee, provided however that
if in the circumstances it is reasonable the Employee
may ask the Employer for an extension of time within
which to furnish the written answer or explanation to
the show cause notice and where such request is made
by an Employee to the Employer, the Employer shall
grant such request for such further period of time as is
deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(3) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or
explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall if he is
under suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be
paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of
such suspension.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(4) if the employer is not satisfied with the written answer
or explanation of the Emloyee to the show cause notice
and such answer or explanation is rejected by the
Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry
within ten (10) working days from the date of receipt by
him of the written answer or explanation to the show
cause notice.
(5) after holding such inquiry the Employer, shall notify the
Employee of the findings of each of the charges in the
show cause notice and the punishment, if any, imposed
by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to
make an order except for reasons beyond the control of
the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice
within Thirty (30) working days from the conclusion of
the inquiry into such charges the Employee shall not be
liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charages and no inference adverse to the Employee in
respect of such charges shall be drawn from such
charages.
(6) if the Employee is under suspension and the Employer
after such inquiry makes order that,-
(a) the employee shall not be dismissed then the
employee shall resume employment forthwith and
shall subject to the provisions of sub-clause 25(1)
(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due
for the period of suspension irrespective of such
other punishment less than dismissal that may be
imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the
charges in the show cause notice ;
(b) the employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s
dismissal shall take effect from the date of the
Employee’s suspension and accordingly the
employee shall not be paid for the” period of such
suspension ;
(c) in view of the serious or involved nature of the
charges in the show cause notice against the
employee the employer is unable to make a final
order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter
be referred to the Police or other authorities for
further investigations or inquiries and that the
matter be therefore referred to the Police or other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved
nature of the charges preferred against the
Employee the matter had been previously referred
to the Police or any other authorities for
investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either
of such circumstances the Employee may remain
suspended without pay.
(7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as
provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order
under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause
for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own
seeking within Thirty (30) working days from the date
of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be
entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period of
thirty (30) days from the date. of such suspension and
to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in
excess of thirty (30) days up to the date of which the
Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of
the preceding sub-clause irrespective of the outcome
of the Inquiry.
(8) in any case where an Employee is suspended as
provided herein the Employer shall make an order under
paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub-clause 6 within ninety (90)
days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless
he is prevented from doing so by reason of the
Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the
control of the Employer or it is agreed between the
Federation and any of the Employees that in the
circumstances of the case the period ninety (90) days
be extended for such further time as may be agreed.
(9) the employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as
referred to in sub-clause (4) and (5) hereof where the
Employer proposes to warn the Employee or where the
Employee admits to the charge or charges, provided
however that if the Employee disputes the warning or
punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer
and requests the holding of an inquiry the Employer
shall comply  with such request and the provisions
relating to the holding of an Inquiry shall then apply
subject to the exception of the fact that the inquiry had
not commenced within  ten (10) working days after
receipt of the Employee’s explanation shall not be material
or relevant.
27. Retirement
On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee
shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by his
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to
give the Employee any notice of such retirement, provided
however, that an Employee who has retired may, in the
discretion of his Employer, be employed after his retirement
on a temporary basis on such terms as may be mutually
agreed.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
28. Termination of Service
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written for the hire of
any Employee by the Employer except for work usually
performed by the day, or by the Job, or by the journey,
shall (subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or
unless otherwise expressly stipulated) be deemed and
taken in law to be a contract for hire and service fo the
period of one month and to be renewable from month to
month and shall - be deemed and taken in law to be so
renewed, unless one month’s notice be given by either
party to the other of his intention to determine the same
and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or
period such as casual or temporary work he shall be
infomed thereof at the commencement of his employment
and his contract of service will terminate on the
completion of the job or period or on the failure of the
Employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
29. Union Recognition
The Union shall be competent to make representations on
behalf of its members who are employed in any work place of
the Employer. In regard to issues of general application or to
the effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms
and conditions of employment either in the work place or the
trade as a whole the following provisions shall apply :-
(1) When the Union is representative of not less than forty
per centum (40%) of the Employees whose membership
subscription is not in arrears, the Employer will recognize
the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters
and negotiate with it on, that basis. If there is any other
Union which is also representative of not less than forty
per centum (40%) of such Emloyees the Employer will
be at liberty to require that general claims and matters
be discussed and negotiated with all the Unions
competent to make general demands by virtue of the
requisite membership and not separately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of
business or has more than one work place and the claim
or matter is restricted to one type of business or one
work place but is applicable  or capable of being
applicable to other Employees in the service of the
Employer the competence of the Union to make such,
claim or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union
in proportion to the total number of Employees in the
service of the Employer in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether
at the establishment of the Employer the Union is
competent to make general claims or raise general matters
the same shall be determioned by a referendum which
shall be held by the Department of Labour and the result
of such referendum shall be binding on the Employer
and that Union and the parties thereto.
30. Disputes Procedure
(1) In the first instance the Employees shall submit any
demand on behalf of its members to the Employer and
(give the Employer at least ten (10) working days’ time
within which to reply. If in the Employees’ opinion the
Employer’s reply is unsatisfactory the Employees and
the Employer shasll explore the possibility of reaching a
settlement.
(2) When the Employees conclude that negotiations with
the Employer have been abortive to shall ask the
Department of Labour to intervene and give the
Department not less than ten (10) working days to
arrange conferences and/or discussions with a view to
settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis
of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until
the Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of Clause 33 hereof all disputes
between the Employees and the Employer shall be
settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial
Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support
or engage in any unfair labour practice during the
currency of this Agreement.
31. How Anomalies in the course of Implementing this
Agreement shall be Dealt with
Any anomaly arising from the implementation of this
Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between
representatives of the Federation and the Employees. If the
matter cannot be settled by negotiation the matter shall be
settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial
Disputes Act and the regulations thereunder.
32. Trade Union Action
The Unions and its members and the Employees covered
and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with
the Employer that during the continuance in force of this
Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action against the Employer in respect of any
2 — G 17564

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
dispute between the Employer on the one hand and the Union
and/or its members and/or any Employees covered and bound
by this Agreement on the other hand whether or not such
dispute is related to this Agreement, except where such dispute
has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion
of the of the conrolling body (by whatsoever name called), of
he Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or
undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of that
Union and/or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously
detrimental to the interests of the Union and/or its members.
Provided however that at least seven (7) days’ notice in writing
shall be given to the Union by the Employer concerned, the
Federation and the Commissioner of Labour before the date
of commencement of any intended strike or other form of trade
union action consequent on an act of an Employer  which in
the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name
called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to
threaten or undermine its members or is grossly unfair or
seriously detrimental to the interests of that Union and/or its
members.
33. Variations of Terms and conditions of Employment
Benefits
(1) The Union and its members and the Employees covered
and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force
of this Agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add
to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment
presently applicable to any of the Employees covered
and bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in
terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits
presently enjoyed by any of the Employees covered
and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual
Agreement.
(2) The Federation and the Employers bound by this
Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Union,
and its members and the Employees covered and bound
by this Agreement that they shall not seek to vary, alter
or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed
by the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement
other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under
the provisions of sub-clause (1) or (2) may be resolved
by voluntary arbitration but only if the parties agree to
submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
P
ART  II
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement
If in the opinion of the Employer the Union commits a
breach of any of the terms of this Collective Agreement, then
and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to
enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by the Employer
in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand
withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon” such terms and
conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries
If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice
in terms of Clause 26, the following provisions shall apply to
the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause
notice -
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow
another Employee (hereinafter referred to as “Observer”)
to be present as an Observer without loss of wages for
absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice
desires an Observer to be present at the Inquiry to be
held pursuant to such show cause notice, he shall
forty-eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed
for the commencement of the inquiry submit to the
Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person
who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer
shall not be entitled to represent the Employee who is
served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in
the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled
to require on Observer who obstructs such inquiry in
any manner whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an
Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of
an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate
such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the
findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings
The following provisions shall, apply to meetings of the
Union :-
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union desires to
hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for
permission shall be previously made to the Employer.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the
Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or
more of the undernoted conditions :-
(i) that no person other than an employee in the service
of the Employer shall be present at a meeting of the
Union.
(ii) on occasions such as the Annual  General. Meeting
of the Union, the Office Bearers of the parent Union
may, with the previous approval of the Employer,
attend)
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union
shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to
ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a
meeting of such Union is granted, are duly complied
with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to
ensure that no damage is caused in the course of) or in
connection with) a meeting of the Union to the
Employer’s property or an other persons at the
Employer’s premises and the Union shall indemnify the
Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against
any such damage.
4. Duty Leave
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :-
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse
to grant permissions if, in his discretion, the exigencies
of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will
generally grant permission for not less than two office
bearers of the Union :-
(a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis
of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon or the Department of Labour in connection
with a dispute between the Union and the Employer,
or
(b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts,
Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals.
without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without
remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union,
Courts or. Seminar or Conference either in Sri Lanka or
abroad, unless the Employee concerned is entitled to
annual or other holidays which he wishes to utilise for
the purpose.
5. Check Off
(1) In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer
bound by this Collective Agreement in whose
establishment the members of the Union is not less than
forty per centum (40%) of the category of Employees
covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an
employee deduct from the wage due to such employee
the current monthly union dues as are specified by the
Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to
the Union and remit the amount as deducted to the
Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and
subject, to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union
dues from his wages shall sign a statement to the effect
in the form set out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to
as an “Authorization” as set out in the Second Schedule
hereto.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his
agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement
to that effect in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter
referred to as a “Revocation” as set out in the Second
Schedule hereto.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization
shall commence from the wages due immediately after
the date of receipt of such authorization and shall
continue thereafter until the authorization is canceled
by a revocation,
(6) As far as practicable deductions under an authorization
shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation
canceling such authorization, Provided however :-
(a) that an Employer shall not be liable in any manner
whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned
for failure to comply with sub-clause (5) or (6),
(b) that, at his discretion, an Employer shall be entitled
not to make deductions by way of check off in any
month in which the decutions by way of check off
will together with all other deductions from the
Employee’s wages in that month exceed the
deductions permitted by law,
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth / day of each
month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages
of the Employees in the month immediately preceding,
to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the
tenor of each authorization by a cheque payable to the
Treasurer thereof and cross “Account Payee”,

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelop
addressed to the Treasurer of the Union and its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than
the union dues actually deducted.
PART  III
DEFINITIONS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the
meaning set opposite to them —
W ords Meaning
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer (for convenience some times referred The Employer covered and bound by this Agreement.
to as “he” or its grammatical variations
Employee (for convenience some times referred Subject to the provisions of Clause 5 of Part II hereof an Employee
to as “he” or its grammatical variations bound by this Agreement.
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950.
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an Employee would normally receive an
increment.
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wage
in the First Schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight
on the succeeding Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months
* Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
* Words imparting the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
FORM NO. 1
AUTHORISA TION
Name of Employer : ......................................................................
As I am an employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement of effecting employees employed in a capacity,
and I desire to avail myself of the facility of Check Off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a
member of the United Tea Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union please deduct from my wages each month a sum of
Rs. ......................... (Rs. ...........................) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit the
same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages next due immediately following
the date hereof.
.......................................................... ..................................................................... ..................
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
.....................................................................................
(Full Name of Employee)
Received on : ...................................................................................................
(To be filled by Employer)
F
ORM NO. 2
REVOCATION
Name of Employer : ......................................................................
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership
dues in favour of the United Tea Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union with effect from the wages next due to me
immediately following the date hereof.
.......................................................... ..................................................................... ..................
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
...................................................................................
(Full Name of Employee)
In witness whereof parties have set their hands hereunto on this 18th day of August Two Thousand and Eleven at Colombo.
................................................................................. .............................................. .........................................
F. L. Fonseka, T.  P. M. Kularatne
Joint Managing Director for and on behalf of Assistant Secretary For and on behalf of
Mackwoods (Pvt) Ltd. United Tea Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union.
Witnesses :
Name : ................................................................................. Name : .................................................................................
Designation : ...................................................................... Designation : ......................................................................
Name : ................................................................................. Name : .................................................................................
Designation : ...................................................................... Designation : ......................................................................

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
1st  SCHEDULE
The commencing wage and the increments applicable to different categories of employees covered and bound by this
agreement will be as follows :
Motor Transport Trade
Class B Class C Class D Class G Class H
Commencing Wage 12,500 12,350 12,750 12,250 12,150
Increment 25 20 30 17.50 17.50
Coir Matress, Bristle Fibre and Agro Chemical Employees
Grade II Intermediate Grade I Head Baling
Press Operator
Commencing Wage 12,150 12,250 12,350 12,350
Increment 17.50 20 25 28
Engineering Trade
Unskilled Semi Sk illed Skilled
Commencing Wage 12,150 12,300 12,750
Increment 17.50 25 30
2nd  SCHEDULE
EXPORT DEPARTMENT REVISED PRODUCTION NORMS FOR 2011
No. Type of Bale/Size/Weight Gang Agr eed Norms W.E.F . Remarks
Strength 2011
Bale Ballots
01 M/Fibre 150 kg (HB) 16 84
Without Dusting at the Press Floor
02 M/Fibre 150 kg (RB) 16 66
Without Press Floor Dusting
03 B/Fibre 1 Tie/ 2 Tie 16 70
With Gunny Cover
04 B/Fibre 1 Tie/ 2 Tie Without 16 72
Gunny Cover
05 Omat Fibre 150 kg Without 16 72
Press Floor Dusting
06 MF (Hoop) 125 Kg Without 16 86
Press Floor Dusting
07 MF (Rope) 125 Kg Without 16 72
Press Floor Dusting
08 Ballots - 25 Kg Filling into Sacks only 02 84
Ballots - 12.5 Kg Filling only 02 130
09 MF (HB) 150 Kg HT Fibre 16 64
Extra Dusting on Press Floor

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
No. Type of Bale/Size/Weight Gang Agr eed Norms W.E.F . Remarks
Strength 2011
Bale Ballots
10A MF 100% HT or Pickerd or 75% Ht + 25% 16 80
Pickerd Without Press Floor, 1.
Dusting With M/F loose Ballots
10B MF 100% HT or Pickerd or 75% Ht + 25% 16 84
Pickerd Without Press Floor
Dusting With M/F Ballots
11 MF (Roped) 125 Kg Extra 16 66
Dusting on Press Floor
12 Pressing BF (Moltie) 25 Kg 16
Ballots Minimum of 250 Ballots 250 ballot
x 25 Kg
In the event of Forklift machine is not operational Gang strength has to be increased to 19 workers.
2nd  S
CHEDULE
EXPORT DEPARTMENT REVISED LOADING NORMS FOR 2011
No. Type / Size Gang Hrs
Strength
01 MF/BF Bales 20’ 10 2 1/2
MF/BF Bales 40’ 11 05
02 BF Ballots 20’ 10 04
BF Ballots 40’ 10 08
03 HTMS/STME 20’ 09 1 1/2
HTMF/STMF 40’ (Including Weighing) 09 04
04 CHC 40’ 10 08
05 DC - 20’ (Without Marking) 08 2 1/2
DC - 20’ (Including Marking) 08 04
DC - 40’ (Without Marking) 10 05
DC - 40’ (Including Marking) 10 08
06 F/C - With Fibre 20’ 09 04
F/C - Tuft only 20’ 09 2 1/2
F/C Tuft only (15”) 20’ 09 05
07 Bleaching Chamber (Loading or Unloading) 06 05
MF/BF 40’ Containers 11 05
MF - 166 x 150 Kg 11 05
MF (Rope) 120 x 150 Kg 11 05
Cut Ends 135 x 150 Kg 11 05
MF (New York) 135 x 150 Kg 11 05
MF (China) 146 x 150 Kg 11 05
08 HTMF/STMF 20’ 09 02
09 F/C Tuft only 13” 20’ (700 Bags and above) 09 3 1/2
When using Forklift for loading above norms will not be applicable.
(continued)

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
2nd  SCHEDULE
AGRO DEPARTMENT - AGREED PRODUCTION NORMS 2011
Type of Method     Product Pack Gang Present Norm Agreed Norms for
(Machinary/Manual) Strength 2005 2011
Gang Norm
Liquid Refilling into Bottles 50 ml 5 1500 5 1500
Using Hand Filling Machine 100 ml 5 1500 5 1500
200 ml 5 1500 5 1500
400 ml 5 1300 5 1300
Liquid Refilling into Bottles 200 ml 5 1500 5 1500
Using Old Double Filling Mach 400 ml 5 1500 5 1500
Liquid Refilling into Bottles
Using New Double Filling Mach 400 ml 7 1700 7 1700
Liquid Refilling into Polycans
with Filling Machine 01 Lit 5 420 5 420
Manual 01 Lit 5 375 5 400*
with Filling Machine 02 Lit 4 280 4 280
Manual 02 Lit 4 250 4 260*
Manual 03 Lit 4 250 4 260*
Manual 04 Lit 4 190 4 200*
Powder Refilling to Alu Alu Poly Alu Poly
Packs/Poly Bags 50 g 5 1000 960 5 1000 960
100 g 5 1000 960 5 1000 960
200 g 5 1000 960 5 1000 960
500 g 5 700 700 5 700 700
1 Kg 5 700 700 5 700 700
Carbofuran 2 Kg 5 700 700 5 700 700
Mackzee 2 Kg 360 5 360
Mackzee 5 Kg 5 140 5 140
Powder Refilling into Pet Shoot 50 g 5   800 5 800
Bottles which will come into
Eration in November 2006 100 g 5 800 5 800
200 g 5 800 5 800
Macksul Refilling Alu Packs Macksul 500 g 5 1100 5 1100
Liquid Refilling into 50 ml 5 1100 5 1100
Bottles (Manual) 100 ml 5 1100 5 1100
200 ml 5 1100 5 1100
400 ml 5 850 5 850
Surfactant 200 Lit 3 4 3 4
Formulations
Others 200 Lit 3 6 3 6
05-106 * Increased Norms

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
My No.  : CI/1786.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  (CHAPTER  131)
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Hongkong
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, 24, Sir Baron
Jayathilaka Mawatha, Colombo 01 the one part and The
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, 20, Temple Road, Colombo
10 of the other part on 24th day of May 2012 is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
27th March, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 15 of 2012
Table of Contents
01. Parties to be Covered and Bound ............................... 04
02. Date of Operation and Duration .................................. 04
03. Earlier Agreements ........................................................ 04
04. Matters Covered and Bound ....................................... 04
05. Salary Ranges ................................................................. 05
06. Immediate Increase and Conversion to
Salary Ranges ................................................................. 05
07. Allowances ..................................................................... 05
a) Cost of Living Allowance ........................................ 05
b) Disturbance Allowance ............................................ 06
08. Annual Salary Increments ............................................ 06
09. Pension Payments to Employees Who Have
Retired From Service ..................................................... 06
10. Promotions from Non-Clerical (Minor Staff) to
Clerical Grade ................................................................. 06
11. Provident Fund .............................................................. 07
a) Rate of Contribution ............................................... 07
b) Interest on Provident Fund Contribution
held by the Bank .................................................... 07
c) Deficiency in Bank’s Contributions to
Provident Fund to an Employee not
entitled to a Pension .............................................. 07
12. Terminal Benefits .......................................................... 08
a) Pensions ................................................................... 08
b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/
disability ................................................................... 08
c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights .... 08
d) Death Gratuity ......................................................... 09
e) Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to
Retirement ................................................................. 09
f) Completed Years of Service .................................... 09
g) Commuted Pension ................................................. 09
13. Medical Scheme ........................................................... 10
  (i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for
Non-Hospitalisation Expenses ........................... 10
 (ii) Special Non-Hospitalisation and
Non-Surgical Expenses ........................................ 10
(iii) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure ......... 10
(iv) Extended coverage of Surgical and
Hospitalisation Expenses ......................................
 (v) Maternity Cover .................................................... 10
14. Retirement ..................................................................... 11
15. Bonus ............................................................................. 11
16. Probation ....................................................................... 11
17. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and
General Councilors ...................................................... 11
18. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch ................ 12
19. Overtime ........................................................................ 12
20. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave .......................... 12
a) Annual Leave .......................................................... 12
b) Medical Leave ......................................................... 13
c) Casual Leave ........................................................... 14
21. Suspension ................................................................... 14
22. Disciplinary Procedure ................................................ 14
23. Technology .................................................................... 17
24. Trade Union Action ...................................................... 17
a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement ... 17
b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this
Agreement ................................................................ 17
25. Union Check-off Facilities .......................................... 18
26. Implementation and Interpretation this
Agreement ................................................................ 18
27. Consequences of Termination of Agreement ........ 19
28. Definitions ................................................................ 19
The First Schedule .................................................... 20
The Second Schedule .............................................. 21
The Third Schedule .................................................. 23
This Collective Agreement made this 24th day of May
2012 between The Hongkong and Shanghi Banking
Corporation Limited, a Bank duly registered in Sri Lanka and
having its registered Office at 24 Sir Baron Jayatilaka Mawatha,
Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”)
of the One Part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly
registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at 20
Temple Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as “the
Union”)
3 — G 17564

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
of the Other Part
Whereras the Union made demands for re-negotiation of
the Collective Agreement of 2009 which came into effect on 1
April 2009 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank
and the Union, agreement has now been reached between
the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better
employee terms and conditions, co-operation between the
Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining an
efficient and productive working environment, the matters
agreed upon are set out hereunder :
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (the Bank), The
Ceylon Bank Employees Union (the Union) and members of
the Union employed on monthly contracts of employment by
the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories as at
the date of signing this Agreement and for whom salary ranges
have been prescribed in this agreement in the First Schedules
hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). This
Agreement shall not cover and bind any employee who is a
Supervisor, Staff Officer, Secretary, Executive and any other
Staff on special rates of pay.
2. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall come in to force on 1 April 2012 and
shall continue unitl either party terminates it by written notice
in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice
shall be given before the 31st March 2015. The Union shall,
however, have the right to commence negotiations for a
revised Collective Agreement at any time on or after 1 April
2014.
3. Earlier Agreements
This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective
Agreement entered into or binding on the parties hereto and
such earlier Agreements shall stand repudiated in respect of
the parties hereto.
4. Matters Covered and Bound
(a) This agreement shall be in full and final settlement of
all matters  covered herein as well as of all the matters
raised by the Union and in respect of which
negotiations took place between the parties the
conclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees
that it will not during the continuance in force of this
Agreement raise any of the matters which were
discussed and negotiated between the parties
preceding this Agreement except to the extent agree ;
(b) The Union and its members shall not during the
continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary,
alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditiions of
employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed
as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual
agreement with the Bank.
5. Salary Ranges
Every employee covered by this Agreement in service as
at the date of signing this Agreement shall, from the April
2012 be placed on the basic salary range set out in the Firsrt
Schedule hereto.
6. Immediate Increase and  Conversion to Salary Ranges
For the placement of an employee on the basic salary range
applicable in the First Schedule, the following Provisions
shall apply.
All employees in service as at 31st March 2012, will receive
the following increases ;
(i) A sum equivalent to 23% of gross salary payable to
an employee as at 31st March 2012 will be added to
the basic salry effective 1 April 2012 ;
(ii) A further sum equivalent to 3% of gross salary payable
to an employee as at 31st March 2012 will be added to
the basic salary effective 1st April 2013 ;
(iii) A sum further equivalent to 2% of gross salary payable
to an employee as at 31st March 2012 will be added to
the basic salary effective 1st April 2014.
All employees joining after 31st March 2012, will be placed
on the starting salary of Rs. 17,000. Upon Completion of  2
(two) years service, such employees shall be granted a 26%
incrase in their basic salary calculated on the basis of 26% x
(15,500 + COLA as at 31st March 2012).
7. Allowances
(a) Cost of Living Allowance (COLA)
Parties are agreed that the following shall be the
payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance
for the duration of the Collective Agreement.
(a) Rs. 17,000 with effect from 1.4.2012 ;
(b) Rs. 18,500 with effect from 1.4.2013 ;
(c) Rs. 20,000 with effect from 1.4.2014 .

<!-- page 19 -->

19AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
Provided, however, in the event of the Department
of Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor
pertaining to the rate of payment in relation to the
Colombo Consumers’ Price Index (Base Year 2002)
and the CCPI (Base Year 2006/2007) and if your union
makes a request for a meeting to discuss the
modalities of making this payment, the Bank would
be agreeable to do so.
(b) Disturbance Allowance
With effect from 1 April 2012 an employee called upon
to report for work before 7.00 a.m. shall continue to
receive Rs. 350 per day, and if required to report before
6.00 a.m. shall continue to receive Rs. 600 per day.
8. Annual Salary Increments
With effect from 1 April 2013, the annual increments
awarded to employees covered and bound by this Agreement
will  be based on the employee’s performance during the
previous Calender year.
The performance of the employees will be assessed in
terms of the Performance Assessment Review and in terms of
same, the granting of annual increments will be based on the
ratings and the corresponding amounts of increments as
follows :
Ratings Annual Increments
2013 2014 2015
Rs. Rs. Rs.
1 1,600 1,800 1,900
2 1,150 1,300 1,400
3 700 800 900
4 150 150 150
5 100 100 100
In terms of the above ratings, a minimum annual increment
of Rs. 100 (except in cases where disciplinary action is being
taken) will be payable during the period of this Agreement.
9. Pension Payments to Employees who have Retire from
Serive
Any employee who has retired from service between 1st
April 2012 and the date hereof shall be entitled to have his
pension calculted on the basis of the salary in terms of caluse
6(i) hereof.
10. Promotions from Support Staff to Banking Assistant
Grade
Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff
at their discretion, the Bank will consider the above
promotions subject to the following criteria :
(i) The number of vacancies in the clerical cadre will be
announced internally by advertisement by Staff
Notice annually. Such notice shall stipulate the job
requirements of the vacancy advertised, i.e.
Educational qualifications, age, and any other
particular criteria required for such job as determined
by the Bank ;
(ii) Any such employee in the non-clerical grade whose
record of service, conduct and attendance has been
satisfactory, with more than four years of service with
the Bank who has necessarily completed the first part
of the Chartered Institute of Bankers (London) or
Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka will be eligible to
apply and will be considered for such clerical position.
The selection process will include medical
examinations, interview, written tests etc., as
determined by the Bank ;
(iii) Any Support Staff whose record of service and
conduct has been satisfactory with more than eight
years’ service with the Bank, shall be exempt from
minimum education qualifications stipulated in the
Notice and may apply for such vacancy and will be
considered in the manner specified at Para (ii) above.
Any such employee promoted in the manner specified
above will be required to serve a period of probation
of twelve months which may be extended by the Bank
for a further period of up to six months during which,
or at the end of which, the Bank may at their discretion
revert such employee to this earlier position and
salary.
The basic salary to such employee promoted in the
manner specified above shall be in Clerical Salary
range in relation to his basic salary received at such
time as a non-clerical employee, which will result in
an increase of not less than Rs. 350. Any non-clerical
employee who conforms to the above requirements
shall be promoted, if there are vacancies.
(iv) The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for
promotion shall be final and conclusive.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
11. Provident Fund
(a) Rate of Contribution
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the
Bank shall be :
Bank’s contributin - 12% (twelve per cent) of salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
Provident Fund contribution shall be on the
consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and
the amount paid for that months a cost of living
allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.
(b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributin held by the
Bank
Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank,
the Bank shall continue to pay be rate of interest paid
of 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000
published in the N.S.B. prevailing as at the 1st January
for the First half of the year and on the rate prevailing
on the 1st July for the second hald of the year on the
Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
(c) Deficiency in Bank’s Contributions to Provident Fund
to an Employee not entitled to a Pension
Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the
Bank in circmustances which do not entitle him to a
pension or payment is lieu of pension as the case may
be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference
between the Bank’s contributions made to the Fund
during his period of service and the employer’s minimum
rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in
terms of the  Emplyees, Provident Fund Act and its
amendments from time to time as a contribution to the
Fund by the employer on behalf of such employee.
Such dificiency will be the difference between the
following minimun rates of contribution under the Act
and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the
Banks up to 31st March 1992.
From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80-9% of gross salary
From 1.1.81 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.70 the employer’s minimum rate of
contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary),
which was less than 10% of basic salary, and therefore
no deficiency arises.
12. Terminal Benefits
It is agreed by parties that with effect from the date of
signing this agreement the pension schemes applicable to
employees covered and bound shall be applied as follows :
In the case of those in employment at the time of signing
this collective agreement the Bank shall offer such employees
a ‘one time ‘option of changing over from the existing Defind
‘Benefit Scheme’ to the new ‘Defined Contribution Scheme’.
The frozen amount at the ‘switch over’ will be kept as a credit
to the staff member until cessation of employment.
1. Defined Benefit Scheme :
Employees in employment at the time of signing this
collective agreement and who who opt to remain in the
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme will continue to be
governed as follows.
(a) Pension :
An employee entitled to a pension in expressed
terms of his employment shall, upon reaching the
retirement age of the Bank and who is in the permanent
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have
completed not less than 10 years of actual
continuous service (excluding absence/leave
without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension
computed on the following basis :
No. of completed years Monthly salary
Service (max. 35 years) X payable in the month
plus 5 of retirement + COLA
Retirement age of the Bank
(b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/
disability
An employee who is found to be unable to continue
to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/disability,
as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/Medical Specialist/
Government Medical Board, and who is in the
permanent employment of the Bank at such time,
and shall have completed not less than 10 years of
actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave
without pay) shall be entitled to a pension computed
on the same basis referred to at clause 12(a) above.
Provided, however, that where an employee is
entitled to compensation by the Bank under any
Laws in force at the time or an Award of Court, such
employee shall only be entiteld to a pension or such
compensation as opted by him, but not to both.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
Provided further that in the case of an employee
whose premature retirement occurred in
consequence of an accident which entitled him to
compensation, the pre-acceptance of pension as
provided herein will not restrict the right of such
employee in subsequently claiming any balance
compensation under any written Law.
(c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights
An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in
terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt
for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his
pension and any other payments arising there from.
The payment will be computed on the following
basis :
No. of completed years 1 months, Basic Salary
plus
Service (Max. 3.5 Years) X 1 months, Cost of living
plus 5 allowance calculated
for the month of retire
retirement.
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in
full and final satisfaction of all claims against the
Bank on account of the cessation of employment in
respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in
the Bank’s contribution of Provident Fund to an
employee not paid a pension in terms  Clause 12.
(d) Death Gratuity
On the death of an employee who has been confirmed
and is in the permanent employment of the Bank,
the Bank will make a compassionate payment of one
and half month’s gross salary for each year of
completed service subject to a minimum of nine
months’ gross salary to the legitimte dependents of
the deceased employee, as may be determined by
the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of
information supplied to them. In the case of the death
of an employee who is not confirmed in employment
the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a
confirmed employee provided that in the case of an
employee who has not been confirmed consequent
upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity
payable will be calculated as in the case of a
confirmed employee. The gross salary for this
purpose shall be the last drawn salary plus Cost of
Living Allowance.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising
out of and in the course of employment, the
dependents shall be entitled to receive either the
death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way
of compensation under any Laws in force at the time
on account of Employees’ Compensation or under
any other Law or an Award of Court, whichever is
higher. Provided further that in the case of an
employee whose death occurred in consequence,
the pre-acceptance of deach gratuity as provided
herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents
in subsequently claiming any balance compensation
due to them under any written law.
(e) Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to
Retirement
An employee shall, upon, resignation/termination
of employment prior to retirement in circumstances
which do not entitle him to the terminal benefits
referred to at the aforementioned Clauses (a), (b),
(c) and (d) be entitled to a gratuity computed in
terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which
shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of
employment. The salary for this purpose shall
comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5 and the
Cost of Living Allowance referred to at Clause 7(a)
hereof.
(f) Completed years of actual service shall include only
actual continuous service worked excluding
absence/leave without pay, but subject to the
Provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983)
and Clause 15 thereof.
(g) Commuted Pension
(i) At the option of the employee at the time of
retirement on or after 1st April 2000, 25% of the
monthly pension into 120 will be paid to
employees who are entitled to  a pension, who
do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided
for in the agreement and who opt for such
commuted pension ;
(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly
pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly
pension payable to him during the first ten years
of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension
he would have been entitled to at the time of
retirement if he had not so commuted his pension.
After the expiry of the said ten years the amount
of the monthly pension so commuted will be
restored and added to the monthly pension then
being paid.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
2. Defined Contribution
Employees recruited after the 24th of May 2012 and
who are covered and bound shall only be eligible for
the HSBC Defined Contribution Pension Scheme
(
subject to regulatroy approval) in relation to which
the Bank shall contribute 10% of the Gross salary.
13. Medical Scheme
(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-
Hospitalisation Expenses
The Bank will pay unfront an employee Rs. 15,600.00
effective from 01 January 2013 as Medical Expenditure
incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his
spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age
of 18 in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non-
surgical and specialist treatment.
(ii) Special Non-Hospitalisation and Non-Surgical Expenses
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-
cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of Rs.
18,500 during the three year period on account of special
non-hospitalisation and non-surgical expenses
covering the following items only incurred on behalf of
the employee and not on behalf of his family members.
Provided that in the case of employees above the age
35 the bank will reimburse claims relating expenses
incurred in lieu of purchase of optical lenses up to a
maximum of Rs. 18,500 every 2 years.
(a) Spectacles
(b) Dentures
(c) Hearing Aids
All claims shall be supposed by valid and relevant
prescriptions, bills and receipts subject to the Provision
that no claim is made in relation to any particular item
more than once a year, and in the case of spectacles it
must be supported by a prescription from a Medical
Eye Specialist.
(iii) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure
Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical
and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private)
expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, spouse
and unmarried legitimate children under 18 years of
age, subject to the production of valid documentation
covering every claim or expenditure, up to
LKR 130,000 per annum effective 1st April 2012
(iv) Extended coverage of Surgical and hospitalizatin
expenses in exceptional circumstances
In addition to the surgical and hospitalisation cover
specified in 13(iii) above, the Bank will consider
requests for reimbursement of additional costs incurred
on account of hospitalisation up to an annual limit of
LKR 100,000 under exceptional circumstances.
The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on
which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be
effected.
(v) Maternity Cover
With effect from 1st April 2012, normal child birth will
be covered under the Surgical and Hospitalisation limits
as given in 13 (iii) above.
14. Retirement
(a) The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other
age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its
employees, and on reaching the age of 55, or any other
age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto
retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there
shall be on obligation on the Bank to give such
employee any notice of such retirement ;
(b) An employee may also be retired and be eligible for
retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and
has 10 or more years of service subject to mutual
agreement between the employee, such employee
Union and the employer that he should be given such
concession and subject to the condition that the refusal
by any party to agree to such premature retirement
shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
15. Bonus
(i) Guaranteed Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus
payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to
every employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of
two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the
month of December in respect of one complete year of
service meaning January to December and
proportionately for service less than one year at the
rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of
each complete month of service. The salary for this
purpose shall include the cost of living allowance
payable for that month.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(ii) Discretionary Performance Bonus
In addition to the above, the Bank reserves the right to
introduce a discretionary variable performance bonus
scheme for 1,2 and 3 rated performers to further
recognize their contribution to the Bank.
The scheme details to be shared with the union prior to
such implementation.
16. Probation
Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period
of nine months probation subject to the right of the Bank to
extend the period of probation by a period of three months.
17. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and
General Councilors
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of
not more than four Branch Union Office bearers at any
one given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to
enable such Branch Union Office bearers to be present
at Inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour
Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with their
respective Bank Managements - exclusively on matters
pertaining to the Bank ;
(b) It is agreed the Central Committee members (General
Council) of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.30
p.m. on 12 days in a year for meetings. In the case of
outstation General Council members, they would be
permitted leave for the whole day for 12 General Council
meetings in a year ;
(c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on
two occasions per year to General Councilors to attend
Parent Union General Council meetings ;
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be
released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive
Committee of the Union. These meetings will not
usually be more than on a monthly basis.
18. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch
The Banks shall permit Office bearers of the Union
employed by the Bank paid leave to visit outstation branches
calculated on the basis of  a day’s leave available for each
such branch, i.e. if there are X branches the total number of
days paid leave avilable shall also be X. For this purpose an
outstation branch is one situated more than 30 miles from
Colombo.
19. Overtime
(a) If required by his employer an employee shall work
reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the
employer, subject to the provisions of any low for the
time being inforce.
(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with
the Provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.
20. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave
(a) Annual Leave
(i) Entitlement In repsect of each year of employment
(which means the period January to December)
during which an employee has been in continuous
employment he shall be entitled to take in the
following year 21 working days paid leave. He shall
avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on
successive days and shall in respect of each year
avail himself of not less than 14 days out out of the
said 21 working days ;
(ii) At the end of first year of employment the employee
qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :
(a) The full annual holiday of 21 days if his
employment commenced on or after 1st January
but before 1st April ;
(b) A holiday of 15 days if his employment
commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st
July ;
(c) A holiday of 11 days if his employment
commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st
October ;and
(d) A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced
on or after 1st October.
(iii) Availment
The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior
authorisation of the Bank upon the employee’s
application, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so
as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) Accumulation
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee
exclusively for the following purposes :
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding
retirement by mutual arrangement with the
Bank ;

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(b) For the purpuse of attending on a family member
who is seriously ill ;
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s
prior notice shall be given ;
(d) For marriage of the employee ;
(e) Prolonged illness of the employee ;
(f) For purpose of nursing third and fourth children
beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
Provided that in the case of (b) and (d) the approval
of such leave shall be at the discretion of the
Management. Family member for purposes of (b)
above shall mean spouse, children and parents.
Provided also that such accumulation will be
restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per
year and provided further that such total
accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of
ninety (90) days.
(b) Medical Leave
(i) Entitlement.-  An employe shall be entitled to not
less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of
weekly or other holidays in any one year, in case of
sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in
sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) Availment
The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for
any days of absence on grounds of sickness 
not
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical
Practitioner :
(a) where such period of absence exceeds two
consecutive days including weekly or other
holidays , or
(b) where the number of days already allowed on
full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by
a Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve
(12) days.
(iii) Accumulation
An employee who takes less than his entitlement in
any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled
to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for
such year in any suceeding year or years, subject to
the following Provisions :
(a) in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave
on full pay, by reason of such accumulation,
exceed ninety (90) days, and
(b) the accumulated medical leave may only be
availed of on account of prolonged illness,
hospitalisation or similar circumstances,
supported by a Certificate from a registered
Medical Practitioner ;
(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current
years’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness
such as an infectious disease or prolonged
hospitalisation, the employer may permit him to
set off any further absence on grounds of ill
health against such accumulated sick leave up
to the extent of the leave taken for such earlier
prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising
the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or
take any action as appropriated in situations where
the absence on grounds of sickness 
not supported
by a Certificate from a registered Medical
Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to
suspect the bona fides of the application and/
or reason for absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds
of sickness immediately follows or preceds any
weekly or other holiday and the Bank has
reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of
the application and/or reason for absence of
the employee.
(c) Casual Leave
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven
(7) days casual leave in each year of employment where
of 
not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one
given time and such leave shall not precede or follow
any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by
prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such
absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as
being in circmustances that could not have been
foreseen by such employee.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
21. Suspension
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary
inquiry on investigations, such employee will, subject
to the Provisions of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below,
receive half his salary from the date of suspension up
to six month and full pay thereafter, subject to the
condition that the delay was not due to the employee
concerned ;
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges
involving financial dishonesty such a fraud or
misappropriation, the employee will not be entitled to
any salary during the period of suspension unless the
inquiry is not concluded within six months of the date
of suspensiion, in which event he will receive half his
salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) during his
suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided
that if the delay beyond six months is due to the
employee’s own conduct or due to the employee being
in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for
the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such
salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as
aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from
concluding the inquiry within six months of suspension
for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as
where the employee makes repeated requests for
postponements or where he is remanded or in Police
custody or where the matter is under investigation by
the Police, the employee will continue to receive half
his salary and will not receive full pay in these
circumstances.
22. Disciplinary Procedure
Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action
against an employee except, however, in the case of oral
warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor
offences, the following procedure shall apply :
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been
suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a
show cause letter which shall set out the particulars of
the charges against such employee and such show
cause letter shall give the employee not less thant ten
(10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation
in writing to the charges preferred ;
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show
cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided
however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable
the employee may request the Bank for an extension of
time within which to tender the written explanation and
where such request is made, the Bank shall normally
grant such request for such further period of time as is
considered necessary by the Bank in the
circumstances ;
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within
the period of time allowed to the employee to show
cause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation,
the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the
Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall
pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in
respect of the period of such suspension ;
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the
time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not
satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject
to sub-clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the
charges against such employee ;
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as reffered to in
sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the
date of receipt by them to the written explanation to the
show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for
reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the
employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of
unforeseen circumstances ;
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of
the same grade or of a higher grade than the accused
employee or an Office bearer of the Branch Union
irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves
to itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the
defense for unacceptable conduct) or a Central
Committee member of the Union employed in the Bank
to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry.
The Defending Employee will not suffer any loss of
salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank
will further allow another member of the Branch Union
to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without
loss of salary for absence from work. The accused
employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name
of the Defending Employee and Observed not less than
48 hours before the time appointed for the
commencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee
shall be entitled to examine the witness for the accused
employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank
The Inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a
defending employee or Observer who obstructs the
4 — G 17564

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
inquiry to withdraw there from and the Defending
Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such
requirement. The absence of a defending employee or
observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for
any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,
nor the proceedings threat, nor the findings pursuant
thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate
in the proceedings but he may answer any question
which the Inquiring Officer may ask him at his
discretion ;
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings
of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and
the accused employee signing proceedings as a
correct record. After the proceedings have been certified
and a copy issued to the accused employee for all
purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as
a true copy of such proceedings before the inquiring
Officer ;
(h) The Inquiring Offier shall maintain his impartiality and
shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as
well ;
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of
the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in
writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of
the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer ;
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as
aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working
days except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank
or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such
employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of
such charges and no inference adverse to the employee
shall be drawn in respect of such charges ;
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding Provisions, the Bank
shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any
of the following circumstances :
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written
explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to
show cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled
to take disciplinary action on the basis that such
employee had no cause to show ;
(ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of
the charges agaist him ;
(iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but
without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the
Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event
the fact that the inquiry did not commence within
twenty one  (21) working days after receipt of the
employee’s explanation shall not be material or
relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment,
if any, imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding
on the Bank, the employee and the Union, unless the
employee or the Union shall within three (3) months
from the date on which are Bank had notified such
employee of the finds or punishment, raises a dispute
in repsect of such finds and/or punishment ;
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank
makes order that :
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated,
then the termination of such employment shall take
effect as from the date of suspension or such later
date as the Bank may determine ; provided further
that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from
the employee any payment made in respect of
salary to the employee in respect of such period of
suspension, if any such payment has been made ;
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be
terminated, then the employee shall be employed
forthwith and shall be paid the entirety of his salary
in respect of the period of suspension without
prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose such
other punishment other than termination, which may
include the whole or part of the period of suspension
pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the
inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-caluses (e), (i) and
(j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held
in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being
referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other
authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of
the fact that criminal charges are pending against the
employee ;
(o) The above Provisions shall only apply in respect of
inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of
this Agreement.
23. Technology
(i) The Thrid Schedule hereto contains matters relating to
new computer based banking technology agreed upon
between the parties ;

<!-- page 27 -->

27AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
(ii) The Bank will furnish the Union on request information
relating to new computer hardware to be introduced by
the Bank, i.e. publishment manufacturer’s
specifications relating to equipment. The Bank will be
under no obligation to provide information relating to
software ;
(iii) The Union will be free to make; representations on
matters relating to the introduction of new computer
based banking technology in the Bank other than on
matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-
caluse (ii) above ;
(iv) Notwithstanding the Provisions of (iii) above, the Union
will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on
matters relating to computer based banking technology,
will not resort to any industrial action in that regard an
any representations/dispute in that connection shall
not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under
the laws of Sri Lanka ;
(v) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating
to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be
referred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the
Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of
the Monitoring Committee not being able to satisfy the
Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department
of Health and Safety of the Labour Department and the
recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall
be accepted by both parties and where changes are
necessary in terms of such recommendation the
Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank to
implement such changes.
24. Trade Union Action
(a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement
The Union and its members covered and bound by this
Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement
they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or
demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective
action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related
to this Agreement.
(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
The Union and its members covered and bound by this
Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement
they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or
demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective
action against the Bank in repsect of any dispute that
may raise on any matter not related to this Agreement
until -
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all
forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute
amicably with the Bank, at which stage the Branch
Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention
to refer such matter to the Parent Union (the Ceylon
Bank Employee’s Union) ;
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’
Union) has intervened in the matter and has
exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such
dispute amicably with the Bank and/or the
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon ;
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level
of conciliaton aforesaid, the Parent Union has to
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14)
days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort
to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to
the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and
to the Commissioner of Labour.
25. Union Check-off Facilities
During the continuance in force of this Agreement and
provided the Union has not less than forty (40) percent
membership among the employees covered by this Agreement
the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided,
however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend,
or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating
any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation
to the Bank.
26. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement
Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with
the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being
implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the
adverse effects of computer technology change, such matters
shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the
Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and
two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union
may request that the matter be placed before the Monitoring
Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall
be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1950.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
27. Consequences of Termination of Agreement
On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions,
benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union
and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
28. Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings :
Bank The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited.
Basic Salary Monthly Salary paid excluding COLA.
Employee an employee covered and bound by this
Agreement.
Employer The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited.
Cost of Living The payment in lieu of the Cost of Living
Allowance Allowance stipulated in the manner set
Out in Clause 7 (a) hereof.
Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank
Employees’ Union at The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning
as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrial
Disputes Act and shall include any
dispute arising between the Bank and the
Branch Union of The Ceylon Bank
Employees Union.
Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as
defined in Clause 5.
Words indicating the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and Words indicating the singular number shall
include the plural and vice versa.
The First Schedule
Basic Salary Ranges
Banking Assistant
LKR. 17,000 - to LKR 59,380.36/ = Annual increments in
accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.
Support Staff Salary Ranges
LKR 15,000/ = to LKR 61,069.96/ = Annual increments in
accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.
The Second Schedule
1. The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee
but will cover those persons specified in Clause 13(iii)
of the Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee
to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming
eligible to be included in this Scheme. No
reimbursements will be made in respect of members of
the family who have not been enrolled.
2. Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalisation
involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.
3. The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event
not later than on the first business day following
admission to hospital.
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies
covering rembursements under this Scheme and the
employee shall be required to make declarations
(including completion and signing of Insurance
Proposal forms) and submit documentation required
by Bank/Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to
enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the
Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal
circular issued from time to time the documentary
requirements and time limits within which documents
should be submitted. Where an employee does not
comply, such employee will not be entitled to benefits
under this Scheme.
5. Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima fides
when making declarations and submitting claims under
this Scheme and any deviation would disqualify the
employee from receiving and benefit under this Scheme.
In addition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary
action in accordance with Provisions set out in this
Agreement.
6. ( a) The bank will circulate by internal circular
published from time to time a list of hospital/
nursing homes, expenses incurred at which, will
be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme.
Additions and/or deletions to this list will also be
made by internal circular ;
(b) If the reasons of geographical location any
employee believes he may not be in a position to
use any of the institutions given in the list, he may
apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of

<!-- page 29 -->

29AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
publication of the list of amendments to the list
referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph,
requesting special dispensation to use a named
institution (s) and the Bank shall consider such
application on a case by basis and, where deemed
appropriate, will grant such special dispensation,
provided however, that the decision of the Bank
on this matter shall be final and conclusive.
7. Exclusions
The Scheme shall not cover benefits/expenses ;
(a) Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness
contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment
outside Sri Lanka.
(b) Occasioned by or happening through :
(i) The participation by the employee or other
eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of
Foreign Enemy, Hostilities (whether war be
declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion,
Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped
Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving
as a member of any Defence Force, Police,
Security Force, Home Guard, etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholis, Veneral Disease,
Insanity and illnesses resulting from Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
(iii) Normal childbirth or pregnancy subject to clause
13(iv), Provided that if an employee has been
employed for a continuous period of twelve
months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses
incurred for any abnormality of maternity which
is in excess of what a normal child birth would
have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the
Bank with the required proof of the extra cost
involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/
Hospital, will be on the employee who makes
the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, V olcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.
(c) Incurred whilst traveling in an aircraft other than
as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed
standard type of civil aircraft operated by a
recognised airlines on a regular route or in a fully
licensed standard type of civil aircraft having two
or more engines operated by a recognised Air
Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or
Industrial firm and piloted by a pilot holding a
Commercial Pilot’s License.
(d) In respect of eye tests or dental treatment.
(e) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which
existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
8. The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative
and the words “any one Years” in Clause 13(iii) of the
Agreement shall be deemed to be the period 1 January
to 31 December. In the case of employees who join
during the course of a year the overall limit and event
limit up to the period ending the next 31 December will
be pro-rated to the number of full months of service up
to 31 December.
9. In respect of claims for hospitalisation which span the
end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the
entitlement of either or both years, subject, however,
to the event limit specified in Clause 13(iii) of the
Agreement.
The Third Shcedule
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to
the introduction of new computed based banking technology
by the Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
1 Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensue
that jobs are designed to include a mix of VDU/non
VDU tasks which seek to provide variation in visual
and mental demands upon the operator.
2 The workload of operators of VDUs will be regularly
reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring
proper safety and effectiveness of the operation.
3 The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with
adequate training within the parameters of their job
description to ensure the safety and health of
employees.
4. ( a) In selecting VDUs the Bank will attempt to obtain
equipment which will ensure the following ;
(i) Screens that give clear stable images ;
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the
reduction of stress and improved
maneuverability ;
(iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the
level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit ;
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and
maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the
VDUs.

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
The Bank will pay attention to the proper
positioning of screens, keyboards and provide
facilities for placing documents and ancillary
equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of
employees.
The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting
facilities to minimise visual fatigue in the operation
of VDUs.
Employees whose main or primary function, as
decided by the Management of the Bank, is the
operation of a VDU, will be permitted to visit, at
the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the
Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to his
commencing employment on a VDU. In the event
of an adverse report being obtained from the
Optician the employee should inform the Bank
immediately.
Where an employee whose main or primary
fucntion, as decided by the Management of the
Bank, is the operation of a VDU, and he is already
using spectacles, when he is called upon to
operate a VDU for the first time, he will be
permitted, at the expenses of the Bank, to be
examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank
for the purpose of obtaining on opinion as to
whether any modification is necessary to his
lenses. The cost of such examination and
modification to the lenses if necessary, will be
borne by the Bank on the following basis :
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by the
Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical
Assistance Scheme herein ;
(ii) The cost of modification of the lenses will be met
within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such
cost should exceed the limits prescribed by the
Scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost
as well ;
5 Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal
by a data entry operator causes a certain amount of
strain, the Bank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in
entering information at or about the end of each period
of 2 hours so long as there is no disruption of the
smooth flow of work and  so long as such pause does
not exceed 10 minutes.
6 The Provisions of this Agreement will apply to
employees whose main or primary function, as decided
by the Management of the Bank, is operating a VDU.
Provided however the Union will be entitled to make
representations as to whether the main or primary
function is the operation of a VDU subject to there
being no industrial dispute being raised on this issue.
7 The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench
employees who become redundant solely and
exclusively in consequence of the introduction of new
computer based banking technology. Instead, the Bank
may avail itself of any one or more of the following
options :
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be
transferred to other sections/departments to
perform work which is within their skill and capacity
without reduction in salary and allowances which
are in force at such time in relation to such
employees. This option refers to a transfer other
than within the scope of employment which the
Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled
to effect ;
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a)
above, re-train an employee if the Bank consider it
necessary ;
(c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with
employees who are redundant for the reasons
contemplated in this Agreement, with a view to
achieving a cessation of employment on terms
mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to
retrenchment within the meaning of this
Schedule ;
8 For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will
mean an involuntary termination of the employees made
redundant consequent upon the introduction of new
computer based banking technology. It will not include
a situation where such redundant employees voluntarily
leave the service of the employees on terms mutually
agreed upon.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.04.2013
In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this 24th day of May 2012 at Colombo.
..................................................................................... .......................................... ........................................
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
Corporation Limited.
Name : Nick  A Nicolaou Name : Amarapala Gamage
Designation : Chief Executive Officer Designation : President
Sri Lanka and Maldives
Witness :
........................................................................ ....................................................... .................
Name : Kanishka Weerasinghe Name : Channa Dissanayake
Designation : Deputy Director General Designation : General Secretary
Employers’ Federatin of Ceylon. The Ceylon Bank Employees’Union.
........................................................................ ....................................................... .................
Name : Shyamali Ranasinghe Name : Harshana Rathnayake
Designation : Head of Human Resources Designation : President
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HABC CBEU Branch.
Corporation Limited.
05 - 107
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.