

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
CHANDIMA WEERAKKODY FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 5 OF 2014
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 04th March, 2014]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 17.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 07, 2014

<!-- page 2 -->

1Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
2—PL 006515—  2050 (01/2012)
[Certified on 04th March, 2014]
L.D.—O.(Inc.) 3/2012.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHANDIMA WEERAKKODY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Chandima Weerakkody Foundaton” has heretofore been
created for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which the said Foundation was established
and has applied to be incorporated and it will be expedient
to grant such application:
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Domocratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Chandima Weerakkody
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Chandima Weerakkody Foundation (hereinafter referred to
as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate  with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued and shall have full power and
authority to have and to use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purposes of the voluntary social services organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act, shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Chandima
Weerakkody
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to assist financially or otherwise the needy school
children to enable them to continue their studies;
(b) to  provide assistance to the needy;
(c) to award scholarships to deserving students selected
to follow courses in Universities and other Higher
Educational Institutions;
(d) to conduct workshops, discussions and seminars
to train teachers of daham schools and
preschools and to provide incentives to inaugurate
preschools with the approval of the relevant
provincial educational authorities if so required by
law;
(e) to assist in providing wheel chairs, crutches,
spectacles and other medical equipment and food
to the needy, destitute and sick;
(f) to encourage the under privileged to engage in self
employment programmes;
(g) to develop religious places belonging to all
religions;
(h) to assist in the activities of societies established in
the Grama Niladhari Divisions.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carrid out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
General objects
of the Corpora-
tion.
Corporation to
ensure of no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department of
the Central
Government or
Province.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules made under section 7, be
administered by a Committee of Management (hereinafter
referred to as the “Committee”) consisting of the Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and four other members who shall be
elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Chandima Weerakkody, Member of Parliament shall be the
first Chairman of the Committee of Management of the
Corporation.
(3) (a) The first Committee of the Corporation shall be
the Committee of Management of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date
of commencement of this Act, who shall hold office until
the new members are elected in terms of the provisions of
this Act.
(b) The first Committee of the Corporation shall be
appointed or elected within one year of the date of
commencement of this Act.
(4) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including
the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after a lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the committee shall, having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) open, operate and close bank accounts;
(b) borrow or raise money with or without security, and
to receive or collect grants and donations:
Provided that, the Committee shall obtain the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation.
(c) utilize the funds belonging to the Corporation for
the achievement of the objects of the Corporation,
in a manner determined by the Committee;
(d) purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire, sell or
otherwise obtain any movable or immovable
property which may be required for the purpose of
the corporation and which may lawfully be acquired
for those purposes and to deal with or dispose of
the same, as it may deem expedient with a view to
promoting the objects of the Corporation;
(e) employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects; and
(g) do all other acts and things as are necessary or
expedient for the proper and effective carrying out
of the objects of the Corporation.
General Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting or at a Special General Meeting
by a majority of not less than one third of the members
present and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law for all or any
of the following matters:-
(a) the election of the office bearers, their term of office,
resignation from, or vacation of, or removal from
office and their powers and duties;
(b) the election and the terms of office of members of
the Committee other than the office bearers and the
powers and duties of the committee;
(c) classification of membership, admission, withdrawal,
expulsion of members and membership fees;
(d) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts;
(e) the procedure to be followed at any meeting of the
committee and the quorum therefore and the
conduct of business thereat; and
(f) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall be
Gazetted.
(4) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
8. (1) The Corportion shall have its own Fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution or grants on
behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of
the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Committee may determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money as may be required to defray any expenditure incurred
by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Committee.
(3) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"
means-
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate, to practise as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate,
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
10. (1) The Committee shall prepare a report of the
activities of the Corporation for each financial year and submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
Audit and
accounts.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Annual Report.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Services Organization (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to  the foreign and local
moneys received by the Corporation during the financial year
shall be attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).
11. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property both movable and immovable by way of purchase,
grant, gift or testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation with
full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Coporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument except in the presence of the Chairman and
two members of the Corporation as may be decided by the
Committee, who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence, and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains any property after the satisfaction of all debts and
liabilities, such property shall not be distributed among the
members of the Corporation, but shall be given or transmitted
to some other institution or institutions having objects similar
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
movable and
immovable
property.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
to those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rules
prohibited from  distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the Committee on or before the dissolution of
the Corporation.
15. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Chandima Weerakkody Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2014
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .