

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIII fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'11'15
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2012
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1784$20 – 2012 fkdjeïn¾ 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2012'11'15
No. 1784/20 – THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Ceylon Biscuits Limited, P .O. box 3, Makumbura, Pannipitiya of the one part and t he
Inter Company Employees’ Union, No. 100/9, Kandy Road, Dalugama, Kelaniya of the other  part on 04th day of April, 2011 is
hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (R evised
Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
31st October, 2012.
Collective Agreement No. 19 of 2011
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this 04th day of April 2011  and take effect from the 1st day of January, 2011 and pursuant to
the Industrial Disputes Act between Ceylon Biscuits Limited, a Company duly registered under the Comapanies' Ordinance, and  having its
registered office at P.O. box 3, Makumbura, Pannipitiya  (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) of the one part  and the I nter
Company Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions' Ordinance and having its registered office at
No. 100/9, Kandy Road, Dalugama, Kelaniya (hereinafter referred to as the “the Unionr”)of the other  part
It is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
1. Title.–This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Ceylon Biscuits Limited Factory Employees', Collective Agreement.
2. Parties Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the  Employer and  the Union and the employees presently
employed by the Employer in its factory on permanent monthly contracts in the  grades of employment for which salary scales have been
set out in the First Schedule hereof and are members of the Union.
3. Duration of the Agreement.– This Agreement shall  be effective  from the 01st day of January, Two Thousand Eleven and may
be terminated by either party with one month's written notice  to the other, provided however that neither party shall  give such notice prior
to the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Thirteen. Any notice of termination of this Agreement given by either party, prior  to the
Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Thirteen, shall not be regarded as valid notice and shall be of no avail.
1A – G 16884 –  355 (2012/11)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'11'15
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2012
4. Salaries.–With effect from First January, Two Thousand Eleven the Employer will pay salaries to employees covered and bound
by this Agreement, in accordance with the salary scales set out in the First Schedule hereof.
5. Conversion to new Salary scales.–
(i) S ALARY REVISION WITH EFFECT  FROM 1ST JANUARY 2011.
To ascertain the monthly salary payable to an employee, with effect from First January, Two Thousand Eleven a sum of
Rupees Thousand Seven Hundred (Rs. 1700-) will be added to the salary that  was paid to such employee in the month of
December Two Thousand Ten, and such employee shall thereafter  be placed on the corresponding point in monetary terms
of ths salary scales set out in the First Schedule hereof.
(ii) S
ALARY REVISION WITH EFFECT  FROM 1ST JANUARY 2012.
With effect from First January, Two Thousand Twelve, the salary of each employee covered and bound by this Agreement
shall be revised by the addition of  Rupees Thousand Six Hundred (Rs. 1600-) to the salary received  by such employee in
the month of December, Two Thousand Eleven, Each employee shall thereafter  be placed on the corresponding point in
monetary terms of the salary scales set out in the First Schedule hereof.
(iii) S
ALARY REVISION WITH EFFECT  FROM 1ST JANUARY 2013.
With effect from First January, Two Thousand Thirteen, the salary of each employee covered and bound by this Agreement
shall be revised by the addition of  Rupees Thousand Six Hundred (Rs. 1600-) to the salary received  by such employee in
the month of December, Two Thousand Twelve, Each employee shall thereafter  be placed on the corresponding point in
monetary terms of the salary scales set out in the First Schedule hereof.
6. Bonus:
(i) By way of bonus, the Employer  shall pay all employees, who have completed on or more years' of service, a sum equal to
one month's salary per employee in December each year.
(ii) In the month of April each year, the Employer will pay to each employee, who has served during the entire previous
calendar year, a bonus related to attendance, in the manner calculated hereunder.
(a) One month's salary to those employees who doesn't have a single day of unauthorized  absence during the previous
calendar year.
(b) 50% of one  month's salary to those employees who  have been absent in excess one day up to five days during the
previous calendar year.
(c) 45% of one  month's salary to those employees who  have been absent in excess five days up to ten days  during the
previous calendar year.
(d) 40% of one  month's salary to those employees who  have been absent in excess ten days up to fifteen days  during the
previous calendar year.
(e) Employees who  have been absent in excess Fifteen days  during the previous calendar year shall not be entitled to any
payment of bonus under ii above.
“Absence” for the purpose of calculating this bonus payment shall be all days of employee is absent from work without
authority
“Salary” for the purpose of calculating this bonus will be the salary which is applicable to each  employee at the time bonus is
paid.
(iii) Provided the business operations of the employer have been profitable in the 12 months preceding to warrant the
declaration of a bonus, the employer will in the month of March each year, declare a bonus. In the event of no bonus being
declared by the employer in the month of March as provided herein, the Union reserves to itself the right to raise an
industrial dispute and have such dispute resolved under the provisions of clause 11 of this Agreement. The Union and the
Employees undertake that they shall not resort to any form of trade union action in respect of  a dispute arising with regard
to this bonus payment.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIII fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'11'15
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2012
7. Attendance incentive - April:
In addition to the April bonus an attendance incentive of 50% of the basic salary will be given to the employees who doesn't have
a single day of unauthorized Absence during the previous calendar year.
“Absence” for the purpose of calculating this attendance incentive payment shall be all days an employee is absent
from work without authority
“Salary” for the purpose of calculating this attendance incentive will be the salary which is applicable to each
employee at the time the incentive is paid.
8. Leave:
Casual Leave .- Employees shall be entitled to 7 days casual leave during any calendar year. In the first year of employment, the
casual leave entitlement shall be on the basis of one day for every two months worked. Casual Leave shall not be taken in excess
of two consecutive days at a time and shall not precede or succeed any period of annual or sick leave. All casual leave should be
applied in advance, provided however that in the event of any unforeseen circumstances, which prevents an employee from
making an application in advance, he/she shall inform the employer of the reasons for the absence within a period of 24 hours.
Sick Leave .- Employees shall be entitled to 7 days Sick leave during any calendar year. In the first year of employment, the  Sick
leave entitlement shall be on the basis of one day for every two months worked. Wherever possible an employee shall make an
application for sick leave in advance and  where such application cannot be made in advance, he shall  inform the Employer of
the reasons for his absence within 24 hours. Any period of sick leave in excess of two days shall have to be supported by a
Medical Certificate acceptable to the Employer.
Annual Leave .- The employees will be entitled  to Annual Leave in terms of the decisions of the Wages Board of the Biscuit
and Confectionery Manufacturing Trade.
9. Disputes Settlement Procedure.– It is agreed by and between parties that any industrial dispute that may occur between the
Employer and the Union and/or the employees, during the period of this Agreement shall be dealt with in the manner set out hereunder:-
(i) The Branch Union or the employees concerned shall, at the outset, raise any dispute with the Employer and both parties shall
endeavour to reach a satisfactory settlement of the dispute through negotiations.
(ii) In the event of their being no settlement, after consultation between parties as aforesaid, the Branch Union shall raise the matter
with the Union and the Union shall raise it with the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon of which the Employer is a member and
the Union and the Federation shall strive to reach a satisfactory settlement in consultation with all parties concerned.
(iii) In the event of there being no satisfactory settlement, consequent to the attempt made by the Union and the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon, either party may seek the intervention of the Commissioner-General of Labour to settle the dispute in
accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
10. Trade Union Action.– It is agreed that the Union or the employees shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action in respect
of any industrial dispute during the period of this Agreement and shall Endeavour to settle any industrial dispute that may arise during the
period of this Agreement, in accordance with the Disputes Procedure laid down herein.
11. Variation of Terms and Conditions .– It is agreed by and between parties that neither party will, during the period of this
Agreement, attempt in any manner to change, vary, alter, add or amend in any form, any of the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement
and/or any other terms and conditions which are currently applicable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, other than by
way of mutual consent.
12. Reciprocal Obligations of the Employees .– In pursuance of the concessions granted by the Employer to the Union and the
employees, the Union and the employees shall reciprocate in such manner as will benefit both employees and the Company. For thi s
purpose, the employees shall –
(a) Customer Service – contribute at all times to excellence to customer service.
(b) Productivity – Co-operate in the implementation of training and all performance improvement measures adopted from time to
time aimed at enhancing the productivity of the Human, Technological and Financial Resources procured and applied by the
Company.
(c) Quality – Actively and consistently contribute to achieve and maintain those standards of quality prescribed by National and
International Institutions and which may be prescribed from time to time as applicable to product and processes engaged in by
the Company and as may be laid down by the Management.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'11'15
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2012
(d) Security – Contribute actively to maintain the security of all personnel and property belonging to the Company.
(e) Safety – Consistently maintain prescribed safety standards in regard to persons, equipment, process, material, work group,
work environment and follow all instruction, which may be given form time to time, aimed at securing the safety of the above.
(f) Personal Hygiene – Meet and consistently maintain all standards and practices, set out for the personal hygiene of employees
as required by the Management.
(g) House-keeping – Meet and extend full co-operation in maintaining standards set out for good house-keeping.
(h) Service Image – Consistently maintain integrity in service and not expect or accept gratification in any form or manner from
customers, distributors, suppliers or their Agents or representatives for any services rendered in the performance of employees’
duties.
(i) Company Image – Actively and wherever possible, promote the good image of the Company and refrain from acting in any
manner within or outside the work environment that would adversely affect the image, goodwill or reputation of the Company
and its employees.
(j) Minimizing of Waste – Active and consistently contribute to all prescribed activities by the management and the Company to
eliminate waste of
(a) Wrapping
(b) Biscuit grinding
(c) Sweeping
(d) Other waste
In witness hereof parties have set their hands on this 4th day of April, Two Thousand Eleven.


<!-- page 5 -->

5AIII fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'11'15
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2012


<!-- page 6 -->

6A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'11'15
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2012
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
11 – 1076