

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2380$12 – 2024 wfm%a,a ui 17 jeks nodod – 2024'04'17
No. 2380/12 – WEDNESDAY, APRIL  17, 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 041768 – 18 (04/2024)
My No.: CI/05.
 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT, - CHAPTER  131 
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank o f Ceylon PLC, No.21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, 
Colombo 01 (Non - Executive Grades) of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 
10 of the other part on 1st January 2024 is hereby published in  terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 
131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
 H. K. K. A. Jൺඒൺඌඎඇൽൺඋൺ,
 Commissioner General of Labour  (Acting).
Deparment of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
28th March 2024.
Collective Agreement No. 07 of 2024


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 2A
COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON PLC COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Non Executive Grades
 
This Collective Agreement made and entered on this 01st January 2024 between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, a Bank 
duly registered in Sri Lanka and having it’s registered oﬃ  ce at No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha (Formerly Bristol Street), 
Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’)
           of the one part
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 20, 
Temple Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’)
of the other part
WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Collec tive Agreement entered into on 21st January 2021 
between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No.04 of 2021) which came into eﬀ ect on 1st January 2021 and subsequent 
to negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreement has n ow been reached between the said two parties for the 
purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees, and 
maintaining an eﬃ  cient and productive working environment, the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder;
 
1.   Parties To Be Covered and Bound
  
 This Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (the Bank), the Ceylon Bank Employees’ 
Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on permanent monthly contracts of employment by the Bank 
and who are employed in any of the categories for whom a salary  scale has been prescribed in this Agreement in the 
First Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employees’), subject to the provisions of clauses 5, 6, 7 (a) hereof.
2.   Date of Operation and Duration
  
 This Agreement shall be in force from the 1st January 2024 and  shall continue until either party terminates it by written 
notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act a amended, but no such notice shall be given before the 31st December 
2026. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence nego tiations for a revised Collective Agreement at any 
time on or after 1st April 2026.
3.   Earlier Agreements
  
 This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties hereto and such 
earlier Agreements including the said Collective Agreement ente red into on 21st January 2021 between the parties 
hereto (Collective Agreement No.04 of 2021) shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.
4.   Matters Covered and Bound
  
 a)  This agreement shall be in full and ﬁ  nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all  the matters 
raised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of 
this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any 
of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the 
extent agreed.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 3A
 b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this agree ment that they shall not during the continuance in 
force of this agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or an y of the terms and conditions of employment or 
beneﬁ ts presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this agreement other than by mutual agreement.
5.  Consolidated Salary
  
 Every Employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of this Agreement shall, from the 1st January 2024 
be placed on the salary scale set out in the First Schedule her eto, which salary has been consolidated at the Colombo 
Consumers’ Price Index in accordance with the provision stated in Clause 7 (a).
6.  Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales
 For the placement of an Employee on the salary scale applicabl e in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall 
apply;
  i. A sum equal to 9% of the gross salary (salary plus Cost of  Living Allowance) payable to an employee as 
at 31st December 2023 shall be added to the salary of an Employ ee in employment as at the date of this 
agreement and thereafter placed on the corresponding point on t he scale applicable to such Employee in 
the First Schedule or if there is no corresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said 
scale
  ii. Every Employee in employment as at the date of this Agree ment and having served in such grade for a 
period of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increment calculated 
on the gross salary as at 31st December 2023 with eﬀ ect from 1st January 2025, and proportionately for 
service less than twelve completed months at the rate of one-tw elfth of such increase in respect of each 
completed month of service. Thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in the First 
Schedule or if there is no such corresponding point in rupee te rms, on the next higher point of the said 
scale.
  iii. Every Employee in employment as at the date of this Agre ement and having served in such grade for a 
period of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 6% increment calculated 
on the gross salary as at 31st December 2023 with eﬀ ect from 1st January 2026 and proportionately for 
service less than twelve completed months at the rate of one-tw elfth of such increase in respect of each 
completed month of service. Thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in the First 
Schedule or if there is no such corresponding point in rupee te rms, on the next higher point of the said 
scale.
7.  Allowances/Payments/Reimbursements
 (a)   Cost of Living Allowance
  A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with th e CCPI (Base year 2002) ﬁ  gure that was last 
published in the month of June 2011 (COL ﬁ gure for the month of May 2011) by the Department of Census & 
Statistics. Accordingly, the Bank shall pay each employee cover ed and bound a sum per mensem as detailed 
below for the duration of this Collective Agreement;
   a) Rs. 55,000/- with eﬀ  ect from 01.01.2024
   b) Rs. 60,000/- with eﬀ  ect from 01.01.2025
   c) Rs. 65,000/- with eﬀ  ect from 01.01.2026

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 4A
 Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to 
the rate of payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers’ Price  Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base Year 
2006/2007) and if parties so desire to discuss on the modalitie s of making this payment, either party may request for 
a discussion with the other party and the other party shall agree for such a discussion.
 (b) VDU Operators’ Payment
  The Bank will make a payment of Rs. 100/- per day up to a max imum of Rs.2,000/- per month, only to employees 
who were in employment on 1st August 1988 and whose main or pri mary function is the operation of a VDU. 
For purposes of this Agreement a person who regularly works not  less than three (3) hours per day on a VDU 
will fall within the deﬁ nition of a person whose main or primary function is the operation of a VDU.
 (c) Disturbance Payment
  An Employee in the Oﬃ   ce Assistant and Allied category who will be required to report for work at the following 
times will be entitled to a Disturbance Payment as follows;
    Before 4.00 a.m. -  Rs.1,100/-
    Before 5:00 a.m. -  Rs.1,000/-
    Before 6:00 a.m. -  Rs.950/-
    Before 7:00 a.m. -  Rs.750/-
    Before 7:30 a.m. -  Rs.600/-
  An Employee in the Typist and Allied Grade who will be requir ed to report to work at the following times will be 
entitled to a Disturbance Payment as follows;
    Before 5:00 a.m. -  Rs. 1,000/-
    Before 6:00 a.m. -   Rs. 950/-
    Before 7:00 a.m. -  Rs. 750/-
    Before 7:30 a.m. -   Rs. 600/-
 (d)  Holiday Incentive
  Employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to recei ve a Holiday Incentive as follows on account of 
expenses incurred on a holiday during not less than 07 consecutive days of Annual Leave taken in any year;
  i. Oﬃ   ce Assistants and Allied grades  - Rs. 46,000/- (per annum)
  ii. Typists and Allied grades - Rs. 48,000/- (per annum)
8.  Incremental Date
 This Agreement shall not have the eﬀ  ect of changing the annual incremental date of an Employee.
9. Promotion to Grade II
 Subject to provisions of clauses 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 hereof,  an Employee who completes Seven (7) years in Grade I, 
shall automatically be promoted to Grade II in his category and an Employee so promoted shall receive not less than 
the value of two (2) increments in Grade I when placed in Grade II.
10. Accelerated Promotion
 i From Grade I to Grade II

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 5A
  Employees who sit for and successfully pass the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka Examination or the Indian 
Institute of Banking & Finance will be considered for placement  in Grade II, subject to the conditions referred 
to at (a) and (b) hereunder, provided, however, that their past  record of overall performance, attendance and 
conduct as assessed by the Bank justiﬁ es such consideration.
  a) On successful completion of examinations leading to the fu ll Associateship of the Institute of Bankers of Sri 
Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance/ Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding 
level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or three (3) complete years of service with the Bank, 
or
  b) On successful completion of the examinations leading to In termediate in Banking and Finance/Certiﬁ cate 
in Banking & Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Financ e of the Institute of Bankers of Sri 
Lanka or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Ban king and Finance, or four (4) complete 
years of service with the Bank.
  
11.  Promotions from Grade II to Grade III
  
 The following principles shall apply to the promotion of an Em ployee from Grade II to Grade III of the basic salary 
scales in the First Schedule hereto:
  
 a)  All promotions to Grade III will be after an application m ade by an Employee to the employer. Promotion 
granted consequent upon an application will be eﬀ ective from the ﬁ rst of the month succeeding the month in 
which the application is made.
  
 b)  An Employee eligible to make such application will be
  
  i.  An Employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade II, or
  
  ii.  An Employee who has successfully completed the Intermedi ate in Banking and Finance/Certiﬁ  cate in 
Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance  of the Institute of Bankers of Sri 
Lanka or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of 
service of seven (7) years in Grade II or ﬁ ve (5) years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade II, whichever 
is lower, or
  
  iii.  An Employee who has completed all stages of the Examina tion leading to the full Associateship of the 
Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finan ce/ Diploma in Applied Banking and 
Finance), or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of  Banking and Finance, or the minimum 
period of service of seven (7) years in Grade II or three (3) years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade II, 
whichever is lower.
  
 c)  Promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depe nd on a consistently good record of work, conduct, 
attendance and punctuality.
  
 d)  The Union will have the right to make representations to t he Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion 
although such cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
 e)  On promotion to Grade III an Employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than 
the value of two (2) increments in Grade II.
  
12.  Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV
  
 a)  All promotions to Grade IV will be after an application ma de by an Employee to his employer. Promotion 
consequent upon an application will be eﬀ ective from the ﬁ rst of the month succeeding the month in which the 
application is made.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 6A
   b)  An Employee eligible to make such application will be -
  
  i.  An Employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade III, or
  
  ii.  An Employee who has successfully completed the Intermedi ate in Banking and Finance/Certiﬁ  cate in 
Banking & Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, 
or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service 
of seven (7) years in Grade III or ﬁ  ve (5) years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade III, whichever is 
lower, or
  
  iii.  An Employee who has completed all stages of the Examina tion leading to the full Associateship of the 
Institute of Bankers Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance/  Diploma in Applied Banking and 
Finance), or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of  Banking and Finance, or the minimum 
period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or three (3) years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade 
III, whichever is lower.
  
 c)  Promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depen d on a consistently good record of work, conduct, 
attendance and punctuality.
 d)  The Union will have the right to make representations to t he Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion 
although such cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
 e)  On promotion to Grade IV an Employee will be placed on a p oint which will result in an increase of not less than 
the value of two (2) increments in Grade III.
  
13.  Promotions from Grade IV to Grade V
  
 a)  All promotions to Grade V will be after an application mad e by an Employee to his employer. Promotion 
consequent upon an application will be eﬀ ective from the ﬁ rst of the month succeeding the month in which the 
application is made.
  
 b)  An Employee eligible to make such application will be
  
  i.  An Employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade IV , or
  
  ii.  Employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate  in Banking and Finance/Certiﬁ cate in Banking 
and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, or the 
corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and Fina nce, or the minimum period of service of 
seven (7) years in Grade IV or ﬁ ve (5) years post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade IV , whichever is lower, 
or
  
  iii.  An Employee who has completed all stages of the Examina tion leading to the full Associateship of the 
Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finan ce/Diploma in Applied Banking and 
Finance), or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of  Banking and Finance, or the minimum 
period of service of seven years (7) in Grade IV or three (3) y ears post-qualiﬁ cation experience in Grade 
IV , whichever is lower.
  
 c)  Promotion to Grade V will not be automatic but will depend  on a consistently good record of work, conduct, 
attendance and punctuality.
  
 d)  The Union will have the right to make representations to t he Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion 
although such cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 7A
 e)  On promotion to Grade V an Employee will be placed on a po int which will result in an increase of not less than 
the value of two (2) increments in Grade IV .
  14.  Re-designation of Typist to Executive Assistant Grade
  
 A typist shall be considered for re-designation as Executive A ssistant provided he/she possesses the following 
eligibility requirements:
  
 a)  Three (3) years service and passing the Intermediate in Ba nking and Finance/Certiﬁ cate in Banking and Finance/
Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding level 
of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance.
  
 b)  On completion of the Final Examination of the Institute of  Bankers of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and 
Finance/ Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking 
and Finance.
  
 c)  Six (6) years service and the relevant qualiﬁ  cations for entry as an Executive Assistant
  
 d)  Six (6) years service without the requisite qualiﬁ  cations for entry as an Executive Assistant but subject to 
success at a written examination and IT practical test conducte d by the Bank or on conﬁ  rmation from the 
respective Branch Manager/Head of Department that the typist concerned is suitable for re-designation and has 
been performing duties of an Executive Assistant for four (4) c onsecutive years and the successful completion 
of the practical test and interview conducted by the Bank.
  
Provided that where a Typist is promoted as an Executive Assistant under this Clause, he/she shall have three (3) years 
service and the required qualiﬁ cations or have six (6) years service as an Executive Assistan t to be considered for 
promotion thereafter.
15.  Promotions - Oﬃ  ce Assistants
  
 Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staﬀ   at its discretion, the Bank will give an opportunity to the 
Employees in this Grade to apply for the Post of Executive Assistant on an annual basis provided they meet with the 
required criteria for promotions.
  
 a)  O ﬃ  ce Assistants to Executive Assistants
  
  i.  Any Employee in the Oﬃ   ce Assistant Grade whose record of service, conduct and atten dance has been 
satisfactory, with more than four (4) years of service with the  Bank who has necessarily completed the 
Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certiﬁ cate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking 
and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the cor responding level of the Indian Institute of 
Banking and Finance, will be eligible to apply and will be considered for such Executive Assistant position. 
The selection process will include medical examinations, interv iews, written tests and IT Practical tests 
etc, as determined by the Bank. Vacancies will be advertised internally each year.
  
  ii.  Any employee in the Oﬃ   ce Assistant Grade whose record of service and conduct has be en satisfactory, 
with more than eight (8) years service with the Bank, shall be exempted from the minimum education 
qualiﬁ cations stipulated and may apply for such vacancy and will be considered in the manner speciﬁ ed 
at (i) above.
  
  iii.  Any Employee in the Oﬃ   ce Assistant Grade promoted in the manner speciﬁ ed above will be required to 
serve a period of probation of twelve (12) months which may be extended by the Bank for a further period 
of up to six (6) months during which, or at the end of which, t he Bank may at its discretion revert such 
Employee to his earlier position and salary.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 8A
    iv.  Any Employee in the Oﬃ   ce Assistant Grade promoted to the Grade of Executive Assista nt will be paid 
a salary at the commencement point of the Executive Assistant salary range or otherwise proportionately 
placed, subject to the Employee receiving increases that will be not less than the value of two (2) increments 
on the scale applicable to him in the Oﬃ  ce Assistant scale
 The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for promotion  shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
  
16.  Provident Fund
  
 (a)  Rate of Contribution
  
  The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund shall be;
  
   Bank’s contribution  -  12% (Twelve per cent) * of salary
  
   Employee’s contribution  -  8% (Eight per cent) of salary
  
   *  Provided however, any increase to the Employers’ contribution in terms of the EPF Act No. 15 of 1958 
as amended and any direction in furtherance to that by the authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.
  
 Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated sala ry referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount paid for 
that month as Cost of Living Allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.
  
 (b)  Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by the Bank
  
  Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Ban k shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid 
on 12 months’ ﬁ xed deposits for a sum of Rs 100,000/- published by the N.S.B. prevailing as at the 1st January 
for the ﬁ rst half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st Jul y for the second half of the year on the net 
Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
  
 (c)  De ﬁ ciency in Bank’ s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension
  
  Where an Employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in c ircumstances which do not entitle him to a 
pension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such Employee shall be entitled to the diﬀ  erence 
between the Bank’s contributions made to the Fund during his pe riod of service and the employer’s minimum 
rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms o f the Employees’ Provident Fund Act and its 
amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf of such Employee. Such 
deﬁ ciency will be the diﬀ erence between the following minimum rates of contribution und er the Act and 10% 
of basic salary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st March 1992.
  
    From 1.1.1971 to 31.12.1980 - 9% of gross salary
  
    From 1.1.1981 onwards.  - 12% of gross salary
  
  Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer’s minimum rate of contributi on was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which 
was less than 10% of basic salary and therefore no deﬁ ciency arises.
  
17.  Terminal Beneﬁ  ts
  
 (a)  Pensions

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 9A
    An Employee shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank, i.e., 60 years or in terms of his contract of 
employment at 55 years, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not 
less than ten (10) years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension 
computed on the following basis:
  
  i.   Employees opting to retire at 55 years
  
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   Pensionable service (subject to a X  payable for the month
   maximum of 35 years) Plus 5 years   of Retirement
          55
  
  ii.  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
  
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
  
   Pensionable service (subject to a X  payable for the month
 
   maximum of 40 years) Plus 5 years   of Retirement
     6 0
  
 (b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/Disability
  
  An Employee who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of inﬁ rmity/disability, as 
certiﬁ ed by the Bank’s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent 
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than ten (10) years of actual continuous 
service (excluding absence/leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension computed on the same basis referred 
to at Clause 17(a) above. Provided, however, that where an empl oyee is entitled to compensation by the Bank 
under any laws in force at the time or an Award of Court, such Employee shall only be entitled to a pension or 
such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided, f urther that in the case of an Employee whose 
premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident whi ch entitled him to compensation, the pre-
acceptance of pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such Employee in subsequently claiming 
any balance compensation under any written law.
  
 (c)  Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights
  
  An Employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the 
payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any o ther payments arising therefrom. The payment 
will be computed on the following basis:
  
  i.  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
  
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   Pensionable service (subject to a  X  payable for the month
   maximum of 35 years) Plus 5 years   of Retirement
  
  ii.  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   Pensionable service (subject to a  X  payable for the month
   maximum of 40 years) Plus 5 years   of Retirement

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 10A
  The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and ﬁ  nal satisfaction of all claims against the Bank 
on account of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuit y, pension, deﬁ ciency if any, in the Bank’s 
contribution to Provident Fund to an Employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 17.
  
 (d)  Death Gratuity
  
  On the death of an Employee who has been conﬁ  rmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the 
Bank will make a compassionate payment of two months gross salary for each year of completed service subject 
to a minimum of nine months’ gross salary to the legitimate dep endents of the deceased Employee, as may be 
determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of i nformation supplied to them. In the case of the 
death of an Employee who is not conﬁ rmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a 
conﬁ rmed Employee provided that in the case of an Employee who has  not been conﬁ rmed consequent upon a 
promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a conﬁ rmed Employee. The 
gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary.
  
  Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall 
be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under 
any laws in force at the time on account Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, 
whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an Employee whose death occurred in consequence, the 
pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently 
claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.
  
 (e)  Commuted Pension
  
  i.  At the option of the Employee at the time of retirement, 25% of the monthly pension into 120 will be paid 
to Employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in the 
agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.
  
  ii.  Where an Employee commutes his monthly pension in the ma nner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable 
to him during the ﬁ rst ten (10) years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have been 
entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted  his pension. After the expiry of the said 
ten (10) years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly 
pension then being paid.
  
 (f)  Alternate Terminal Bene ﬁ t Plan
  
  i.  An Employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Beneﬁ  t Plan under the Re- structured Pension Scheme 
oﬀ ered by the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age nor 
will such Employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built in to the terminal beneﬁ ts lump-sum 
payable under the re-structured scheme at the time of retirement/separation.
  
  ii.  Further, as per the Re-structured Pension Scheme, in the  event of early separation prior to retirement 
(excluding death) an Employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the Deﬁ  ned 
Contribution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.
  
  iii.  However, in the event of death of an eligible Employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will be 
released to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs.
  
 (g)  De ﬁ ned Contribution Pension Fund (DCP Fund)
  
  i.  Deﬁ  ned Contribution Pension Fund is a deﬁ  nite payment in the form of a lump sum, established and 
constituted to provide and maintain superannuation beneﬁ ts to an eligible employee in lieu of the entitled 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 11A
gratuity payments under the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983 at the time of his retirement or separation from 
service.
  ii.  Eligible Employee’, is a regular full time employee in t he Bank’s service, who joined the Bank after 
01.01.2000 as a Banking Trainee or to any other grade in the permanent cadre of the Bank, and includes the 
three employees namely, Mrs. A.C Hettiarachchi (02142), Mr.V .S Goonetillake (02409) and Mr. H.D.S.C 
Perera (03229), but not entitled for the Re-structured Pension/Pension Scheme of the Bank and who has a 
period of service of not less than ﬁ ve completed years of actual service.
  
  iii.  Temporary employees on a ﬁ  xed term contract or a pensioner who has been re- employed by the Bank after 
retirement are excluded from the above mentioned DCP Fund.
  
  iv. In the absence of a nomination of a Nominee or Nominees, legal heirs of an eligible employee shall be 
entitled to receive DCP Fund balance in the form of a Commuted Pension lying to the credit in the name 
of the eligible employee.
  
18. Medical Scheme
  
  i.  Reimbursement of Medical Expenses - Non Hospitalization Exp enses
  
   The Bank will reimburse;
  
    1.  Oﬃ   ce Assistants and Allied Grades  -  Rs. 95,000/- (per annum)
  
    2.  Typists and Allied Grades    -  Rs. 95,000/- (per annum )
  
   in respect of medical expenditure incurred by him on his own  behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried 
legitimate children under the age of 21 in respect of routine non-hospitalization/non-surgical and specialist 
treatment.
  
   An Employee who has a diﬀ  erently abled child/children is entitled to receive Rs.120,000 /- per annum as 
medical expenses in addition to the amount speciﬁ ed above, subject to the recommendation of the Medical 
Board and registration with the Compensation and Beneﬁ ts Unit of the Bank.
  
  ii.  Special Non-Hospitalizations and Non-Surgical Expenditure
  
   The Bank will reimburse an Employee on a non-cumulative basi s a further sum up to a maximum as 
given below per annum on account of special non-hospitalization  and non-surgical expenses covering 
the following items only incurred on behalf of the Employee and  not on behalf of his family members in 
keeping with the existing practice of such reimbursement:
  
 (a)  Spectacles
  
   1.  Oﬃ   ce Assistants and Allied Grades   - Rs. 55,000/-
  
   2.  Typists and Allied Grades    - Rs. 55,000/-
  
 (b)  Dentures/Nerve Filling/Root Filling
  
   1.  Oﬃ   ce Assistants and Allied Grades   - Rs. 50,000/-
  
   2.  Typists and Allied Grades    - Rs. 50,000/-

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 12A
   (c)  Hearing Aids
  
   1.  Oﬃ   ce Assistants and Allied Grades   - Rs. 65,000/-
     2.  Typists and Allied Grades    - Rs. 65,000/-
  
  Subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder and subject to the provision that no claim is made in 
relation to any particular item more than once in three (3) years, other than in respect of Employees over the age 
of forty (40) years who will be entitled to reimbursement on account of spectacles once in two years. In respect 
of spectacles, it must be supported by a prescription from a Medical Eye Specialist.
  
 iii.  Surgical and Hospitalization Expenditure
   Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hosp italization (whether Government or Private) 
expenses incurred on behalf of the Employee, his spouse and unm arried legitimate children under twenty one 
(21) years of age subject to the production of valid documentat ion covering every claim or expenditure, up to 
the following limits per annum:
 (a) Hospital or Nursing Room Charges
  Daily Limit . - Rs. 30,000/-
  Government Hospital payment - Rs. 10,000/-
  
  The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone intensive care treatment.
 b)  Emergency Treatment Travel
  expenses (Total both ways maximum)  -  Rs. 10,000/- 
  * The rate is Rs. 100/ per Kilometer
 (c)  Overall limit for any one year
  1.  Oﬃ   ce Assistants and Allied grades - Rs. 480,000/- per annum
  2. Typists and Allied grades - Rs. 490,000/- per annum
Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she i ncurs on account of full body medical checkups, 
without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a  maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum in addition to 
this entitlement.
Where the Employee’s spouse is aged 30 years or above, expenses  his/her spouse incurs on account of full body 
medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per 
annum under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
 iv.  General
 If both husband and wife are Employees, and the bill exceeds the limit of one Employee, the balance to be paid 
from of the spouse’s entitlement subject to a maximum of 50% of the full entitlement/available limit.
 All medical claims mentioned above, except for Reimbursement o f Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalization 
Expenses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. Prescriptions or Doctor’s bills 
shall be from a Registered Medical Practitioner. 
 The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbur sement of medical expenditure will be eﬀ ected.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 13A
19. Retirement
 (a) The age of retirement shall be sixty (60) years, or any ot her age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its 
Employees, and on reaching the age of sixty (60), or any other age mutually agreed upon, an Employee shall 
ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such 
employee any notice of such retirement.
 (b) An Employee may also be retired within a period of ﬁ  ve (5) years prior to his retirement age and be eligible for 
retirement beneﬁ ts if he/ she has ten (10) or more years of service, subject t o mutual agreement between the 
Employee,  his Union and the employer that he/she should be given such concession and subject to the condition 
that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
20. Bonus
Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to every 
Employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two (2) months’ salary as drawn by such Employee for the month of 
December in respect of one completed year of service meaning Ja nuary to December and proportionately for service 
less than one (1) year at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12th) of s uch entitlement in respect of each complete month of 
service. However, if an employee is terminated/resigned from services before completion of one year meaning January 
to December, he is not entitled for any bonus.
 The salary for this purpose shall include the Cost of Living A llowance payable for that month.
 
21. Probation
 Every Employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of si x (6) months probation subject to the right of the Bank 
to  extend the period of probation by a period of six (6) months.
22. Release of Parent Union Oﬃ   ce Bearers
 An Oﬃ   ce Bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work witho ut payment of any salary, allowance or any 
other  payment of whatever nature on the following basis:
 (a) The total number of Oﬃ   ce Bearers so released shall not exceed one (1).
 
 (b) No Employee shall be released for more than two (2) years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) years.
 
 (c) On resumption of work by an Oﬃ   ce Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive incremental 
credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence  shall not aﬀ ect his rights under Clause 17 
hereof.
23. Concessions to Branch Union Oﬃ   ce Bearers and Central Committee Members
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two (2) Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers at 
any one (1) given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to e nable such Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers to be 
present at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribu nal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and Bank 
Management - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
 It is agreed that Central Committee Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon on twelve 
(12)  days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation Central Committee Members, they would be permitted 
leave  for the whole day for twelve (12) Central Committee Meet ings in a year. For this purpose an outstation 
Branch is  one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 14A
(b) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on tw o (2) occasions per year to Central Committee Members 
to attend Parent Union Central Committee meetings.
 (c) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be rele ased at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive  
   Committee of the Union. These meetings will not usually be m ore than on a monthly basis.
 (d) It is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pa y up to a maximum of one (1) day, once in two (2)  
years, all employees in the membership of the Central Committee of the Union and the Union Branch  Delegates 
in the Bank, to attend the National Delegates Conference of the Union provided however, that the Bank is given 
two (2) weeks written notice of the Conference and not more tha n one (1) employee attached to any single 
Branch/Department of the Bank is so released.
24. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch es
 The Bank shall permit Oﬃ   ce Bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave to vi sit outstation Branches 
calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each suc h Branch, i.e., if there are X Branches the total number 
of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) 
miles from Colombo.
25. Overtime
  i. If required by his employer an Employee shall work reasona ble overtime which has been authorized  
by the employer, subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
  ii.  Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with th e provisions of the Shop and Oﬃ  ce Employees 
Act.
26. Leave
 (a) Annual Leave
  (i) Entitlement
   In respect of each year of employment (which means the perio d January to December) during which 
an Employee has been in continuous employment he/she shall be e ntitled to take in the following year 
twenty one (21) working days paid leave. He/she shall avail him/ herself of at least seven (7) days out of 
the twenty one (21) days on suceessive days and shall in respect of  each year avail him/herself of not less 
than fourteen (14) days out of the said twenty one (21) working days.
  (ii) At the end of the ﬁ  rst year of employment the Employee qualiﬁ es for proportionate leave as follows:
   (a) The full annual holiday of twenty one (21) days if his e mployment commenced on or after 1st 
January but before 1st April.
   (b) A holiday of ﬁ  fteen (15) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
   (c) A holiday of eleven (11) days if his employment commence d on or after 1st July but before 1st 
October, and
   (d) A holiday of six (6) days if his employment commenced on  or after 1st October.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 15A
  (iii) Availment
  The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authoriza tion of the Bank upon the Employee’s application, 
giving suﬃ  cient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
  (iv) Accumulation
 Annual leave may be accumulated by an Employee at the rate of seven (7) days per annum exclusively for purposes 
referred to hereunder, up to a maximum period of ninety (90) days.
 
  (a)  For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
  (b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is se riously ill.
  (c) For travel abroad for which purpose one (1) month’s prior  notice shall be given.
  (d) For marriage of the Employee.
  (e) On account of the death of a family member, provided that  the Employee has exhausted his current year’s 
leave.
  (f) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
  (g) For the conﬁ  nement of a wife, by a male employee.
  (h) Prolonged illness of the Employee.
  (iv) Any annual leave not utilized by an Employee up to a max imum of seven (7) days per year in excess of the 
number of ninety (90) days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the Employee on request, 
by the Bank at an amount equal to one (1) day’s salary per each day unavailed of.
  (v) Provided that in the case of (iv) (b) to (g) above the ap proval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the 
Management.
  (vi) Family member for purposes of (iv) (b) and (e) above sha ll mean spouse, children or parents.
 (b) Medical Leave
  (i) Entitlement
  
   An Employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four ( 24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays in any one (1) year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) 
hereof.
  (ii) Availment
   The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any day s of absence on grounds of sickness not 
supported by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
   (a) where such period of absence exceeds two (2) consecutive  days including weekly or other holidays, 
or
  
   (b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertiﬁ ed by a 
Registered  Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 16A
  (iii) Accumulation
   An Employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one ( 1) year as prescribed above shall be entitled 
to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to 
the following provisions:
   (a) in no case shall the entitlement of medical leave on ful l pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed 
ninety (90) days, and
   (b) the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization 
or similar circumstances, supported by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
   (c) where an Employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such 
as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization, the empl oyer may permit him to set oﬀ  any 
further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the 
leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
 
  (iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising th e Employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or 
take any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a 
Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances:
   (a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona ﬁ des of the application and/or reason for 
absence of an Employee, or
   (b) Where the absence of the Employee on grounds of sickness  immediately follows or precedes 
any weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause t o suspect the bona ﬁ des of the 
application and/or reason  for absence of the employee.
 
 (c) Casual Leave
   An Employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days  casual leave in each year of employment  
whereof not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one gi ven time and such leave shall not precede or 
follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by  prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason 
for such absence is justiﬁ ed to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances t hat could not have been 
foreseen by such Employee.
 (d) Maternity Leave
  The leave that an Employee is entitled to in this regard shal l be governed as per the provisions of the Shop and 
Oﬃ  ce Employees’ Act. However, where a female employee has given  birth to twins/triplets/other multiple 
births upon her ﬁ rst conﬁ nement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84 working days in respect 
of her next conﬁ nement, provided it is a live birth.
 
27.  Suspension
  (i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inq uiry on investigations, he will, subject to the 
provisions of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six 
(6) months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition th at the delay was not due to the employee 
concerned.
  (ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving ﬁ nancial dishonesty such as fraud or 
misappropriation, the employee will not be entitled to any sala ry during the period of suspension unless 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 17A
the inquiry is not concluded within six (6) months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive 
half his salary (salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) during h is suspension beyond the said six (6) 
months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six (6) months  is due to the employee’s own conduct 
or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby makin g it impossible for the Bank to hold or 
conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
    (iii) In cases not involving ﬁ  nancial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is pr evented from 
concluding the inquiry within six (6) months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control 
such as where the employee makes repeated requests for postpone ments or where he is remanded or in 
Police custody or where the matter is under investigation by th e Police, the employee will continue to 
receive half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.
 
28.  Disciplinary Procedure
 Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an  employee except, however, in the case of oral warning, 
letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor oﬀ enses, the following procedure shall apply:
  (a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with 
a show cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such 
show cause letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10 ) calendar days within which to tender his 
explanation in writing to the charges preferred.
  (b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing 
to the Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided h owever that if in the circumstances it is 
reasonable, the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written 
explanation and where such request is made, the Bank shall norm ally grant such request for such further 
period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
  (c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show 
cause and the Bank is satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s  against the 
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shal l forthwith reinstate the employee and 
shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
 
  (d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the tim e allowed to him to show cause and the Bank 
is not satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub-clause (k)(iii) hereof, hold an inquiry 
into the charges against such employee.
 
  (e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub- clause (d) hereof within twenty one (21) 
working days from the date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it 
is not possible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct 
or seeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.
  (f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the 
accused employee or an Oﬃ  ce Bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank 
reserves to itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) to 
defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a 
legal qualiﬁ cation. The defending employee will not suﬀ er any loss of salary for absence from work on 
this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry 
as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. Th e accused employee shall submit to the 
Bank in writing the name of the defending employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time 
appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. The defending employee shall be entitled to examine the 
witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The Inquiring Oﬃ  cer will 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 18A
be entitled to require a defending employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw there from 
and the defending employee or Observer shall forthwith comply w ith such requirement. The absence of 
a defending employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever 
shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the ﬁ ndings pursuant thereto. The Observer 
shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the Inquiring 
Oﬃ  cer may ask him.
  (g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings o f the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer 
and the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct recor d. After the proceedings have been 
certiﬁ ed and a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be 
taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the Inquiring Oﬃ  cer.
  (h) The Inquiring Oﬃ   cer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution 
as well.
  (i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of t he inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in 
writing, of the ﬁ ndings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
 
  (j)  Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid  within the said period of thirty (30) working 
days except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by re ason of the conduct of the employee, 
such employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the 
employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
  (k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any 
of the following circumstances:
   (i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanati on before the expiry of the time allowed to 
show  cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take d isciplinary action on the basis that 
such employee had no cause to show.
   (ii) Where the employee makes a written admission of the cha rges against him.
   (iii) Where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but witho ut prejudice to the Union’s right to request 
the Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence 
within twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material 
or relevant.
  (l) The ﬁ  ndings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed  by the Bank shall be ﬁ  nal and 
binding on the Bank and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three 
(3) months from the date on which the Bank had notiﬁ  ed such employee of the ﬁ ndings or punishment, 
raises a dispute in respect of such ﬁ ndings and/or punishment.
 
  (m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that-
  (i)  the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then  the termination of such employment shall 
take eﬀ ect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the B ank may determine; provided 
further that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect 
of salary to the employee in respect of such period of suspensi on, if any such payment has been 
made.
  (ii)  the employment of the employee shall not be terminated,  then the employee shall be employed 
forthwith and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respe ct of the period of suspension without 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 19A
prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose such other punishm ent other than termination, which 
may include the whole or part of the period of suspension pendi ng inquiry, on the basis of the 
ﬁ ndings of the inquiry.  
  (n)  The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and ( j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not 
held in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being  referred, or has been referred, to the Police 
or other authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending 
against the employee.
29.  Technology
  
  (i)  The Third Schedule hereto contains matters relating to n ew Computer Based Banking Technology agreed 
upon between the parties.
  
  (ii)  The Union will be free to make representations on matte rs relating to the introduction of new Computer 
Based Banking Technology in the Bank other than on matters cove red in this Agreement and subject to 
sub-clause (ii) above.
  
  (iii)  Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Uni on will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute 
on matters relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that 
regard and any representations/dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial 
dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
  
  (iv)  It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relati ng to the adverse eﬀ ects of the use of computers 
shall be referred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective agreement for resolution. In 
the event of the Monitoring Committee not being able to satisfy  the Union, such matter shall be referred 
to the Department of Health and Safety of the Labour Department  and the recommendation given by 
the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and wher e changes are necessary in terms of 
such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to implement such 
changes.
30.  Trade Union Action
  
 (a)  Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement
  
  (i)  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agre ement jointly and severally agree with the 
Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement the y shall not engage in any strike or other 
form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demons trations or picketing or any form of 
collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement. However, a dispute 
arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh Collective Agre ement after 31st day of December 2023, 
cannot be construed interpreted and/or implied by the Employer as a dispute related to this Agreement.
  
  (ii)  In the event there been no satisfactory settlement of t he dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a 
fresh collective agreement aforesaid, and if the parent union d ecides to resort to any form of trade union 
action, the parent union shall give at least fourteen (14) days’ notice in writing to the Bank, the Employers’ 
Federation of Ceylon and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of such trade union action. 
However such notice shall not be given prior to 31st March 2024.
  
 (b)  Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement
  
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement  jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade 
Union action including go- slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against 
the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until -  

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 20A
  (i)  The Branch Union has exhausted all forms of conciliation  to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank, 
at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the 
Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union).
  (ii)  The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has  intervened in the matter and has exhausted all 
forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/or the Employers’ Federation of 
Ceylon.
    (iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the leve l of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to 
give notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of t he fact that there has been no satisfactory 
settlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the 
Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
  
31.  Union Check-oﬀ   Facilities
  
 During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided  the Union has not less than forty (40) percent 
membership among the Employees covered by this Agreement the Ba nk shall continue to grant check-oﬀ , provided, 
however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union 
violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
  
32.  Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement
  
  (i)  Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisﬁ  ed with the manner in which the Collective Agreement 
is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse eﬀ ects of computer technology 
change such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committe e set up by the Bank consisting of two 
representatives from the Bank and two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may 
request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee  by communication addressed to the 
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
  
  (ii)  Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement sh all be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 
3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950 as amended.
33.  Consequences of Termination of Agreement
  
 On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, be neﬁ ts, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union 
and/or its members shall ipso facto cease.
  
34.  Deﬁ  nitions
  
 In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following 
meanings:
  
Bank  Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
  
Employee  An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
  
Employer  Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
  
Cost of Living Allowance  The payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulate d 
in the manner set out in Clause 7 (a) hereof.
  
Cost of Living Index  The Cost of Living Index published monthly by the Department 
of Census and Statistics.
  
Parent Union  The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 21A
Branch Union  The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at 
Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
Dispute  A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Disput e 
in the Industrial Disputes Act and shall include any dispute 
arising between the Bank and the Branch Union of the Ceylon 
Bank Employees’ Union at such respective Bank.
  
Salary  Shall mean the consolidated salary as deﬁ  ned in Clause 5.
  
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
  
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa


<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 22A
Fංඋඌඍ ඌർඁൾൽඎඅൾ
Typists & Allied Grades
 Grade I Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 63,230.00 73,750.00 84,675.00 94,585.00 114,250.00
2 63,930.00 74,610.00 85,725.00 95,815.00 115,670.00
3 64,630.00 75,470.00 86,775.00 97,045.00 117,090.00
4 65,330.00 76,330.00 87,825.00 98,275.00 118,510.00
5 66,030.00 77,190.00 88,875.00 99,505.00 119,930.00
6 66,730.00 78,050.00 89,925.00 100,735.00 121,350.00
7 67,430.00 78,910.00 90,975.00 101,965.00 122,770.00
8 68,130.00 79,770.00 92,025.00 103,195.00 124,190.00
9 68,830.00 80,630.00 93,075.00 104,425.00 125,610.00
10 69,530.00 81,490.00 94,125.00 105,655.00 127,030.00
11 70,230.00 82,350.00 95,175.00 106,885.00 128,450.00
12 70,930.00 83,210.00 96,225.00 108,115.00 129,870.00
13 71,630.00 84,070.00 97,275.00 109,345.00 131,290.00
14 72,330.00 84,930.00 98,325.00 110,575.00 132,710.00
15 73,030.00 85,790.00 99,375.00 111,805.00 134,130.00
16 73,730.00 86,650.00 100,425.00 113,035.00 135,550.00
17 74,430.00 87,510.00 101,475.00 114,265.00 136,970.00
18 75,130.00 88,370.00 102,525.00 115,495.00 138,390.00
19 75,830.00 89,230.00 103,575.00 116,725.00 139,810.00
20 76,530.00 90,090.00 104,625.00 117,955.00 141,230.00
21 77,230.00 90,950.00 105,675.00 119,185.00 142,650.00
22 77,930.00 91,810.00 106,725.00 120,415.00 144,070.00
23 78,630.00 92,670.00 107,775.00 121,645.00 145,490.00
24 79,330.00 93,530.00 108,825.00 122,875.00 146,910.00
25 80,030.00 94,390.00 109,875.00 124,105.00 148,330.00
26 80,730.00 95,250.00 110,925.00 125,335.00 149,750.00
27 81,430.00 96,110.00 111,975.00 126,565.00 151,170.00
28 82,130.00 96,970.00 113,025.00 127,795.00 152,590.00
29 82,830.00 97,830.00 114,075.00 129,025.00 154,010.00
30 83,530.00 *700 98,690.00 *860 115,125.00 *1050 130,255.00 * 1230 155, 430.00 *1420
Drivers
     Grade I   Grade II  Grade III  Grade IV Grade V
1 57,530.00 70,460.00 79,045.00 92,335.00 94,355.00
2 58,070.00 71,150.00 80,005.00 93,385.00 95,585.00
3 58,610.00 71,840.00 80,965.00 94,435.00 96,815.00

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 23A
4 59,150.00 72,530.00 81,925.00 95,485.00 98,045.00
5 59,690.00 73,220.00 82,885.00 96,535.00 99,275.00
6 60,230.00 73,910.00 83,845.00 97,585.00 100,505.00
7 60,770.00 74,600.00 84,805.00 98,635.00 101,735.00
8 61,310.00 75,290.00 85,765.00 99,685.00 102,965.00
9 61,850.00 75,980.00 86,725.00 100,735.00 104,195.00
10 62,390.00 76,670.00 87,685.00 101,785.00 105,425.00
11 62,930.00 77,360.00 88,645.00 102,835.00 106,655.00
12 63,470.00 78,050.00 89,605.00 103,885 00 107,885.00
13 64,010.00 78,740.00 90,565.00 104,935.00 109,115.00
14 64,550.00 79,430.00 91,525.00 105,985.00 110,345.00
15 65,090.00 80,120.00 92,485.00 107,035.00 111,575.00
16 65,630.00 80,810.00 93,445.00 108,085.00 112,805.00
17 66,170.00 81,500.00 94,405.00 109,135.00 114,035.00
18 66,710.00 82,190.00 95,365.00 110,185.00 115,265.00
19 67,250.00 82,880.00 96,325.00 111,235.00 116,495.00
20 67,790.00 83,570.00 97,285.00 112,285.00 117,725.00
21 68,330.00 84,260.00 98,245.00 113,335.00 118,955.00
22 68,870.00 84,950.00 99,205.00 114,385.00 120,185.00
23 69,410 00 85,640.00 100,165.00 115,435.00 121,415.00
24 69,950.00 86,330.00 101,125.00 116,485.00 122,645.00
25 70,490.00 87,020.00 102,085.00 117,535.00 123,875.00
26 71,030.00 87,710.00 103,045.00 118,585.00 125,105.00
27 71,570.00 88,400.00 104,005.00 119,635.00 126,335.00
28 72,110.00 89,090.00 104,965.00 120,685.00 127,565.00
29 72,650.00 89,780.00 105,925.00 121,735.00 128,795.00
30 73,190.00 *540 90,470.00 *690 106,885.00 *960 122,785.00 *1050 130,02 5.00 *1230
Oﬃ  ce Assistant/ Lift Operators
     Grade I   Grade II  Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 55,790.00 83,070.00 89,170.00 94.620.00 102,410.00
2 56,330.00 83,760.00 90,130.00 95.670.00 103,640.00
3 56,870.00 84,450.00 91,090.00 96.720.00 104,870.00
4 57,410.00 85,140.00 92,050.00 97.770.00 106,100.00
5 57,950.00 85,830.00 93,010.00 98.820.00 107,330.00
6 58,490.00 86,520.00 93,970.00 99.870.00 108,560.00
7 59,030.00 87,210.00 94,930.00 100.920.00 109,790.00
8 59,570.00 87,900.00 95,890.00 101.970.00 111,020.00
9 60,110.00 88,590.00 96,850.00 103.020.00 112,250.00
      Grade I   Grade II Grade III   Grade IV  Grade V
Fංඋඌඍ ඌർඁൾൽඎඅൾ
 (Contd.)

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 24A
10 60,650.00 89,280.00 97,810.00 104.070.00 113,480.00
11 61,190.00 89,970.00 98,770.00 105.120.00 114,710.00
12 61,730.00 90,660.00 99,730.00 106.170.00 115,940.00
13 62,270.00 91,350.00 100,690.00 107.220.00 117,170.00
14 62,810.00 92,040.00 101,650.00 108.270.00 118,400.00
15 63,350.00 92,730.00 102,610.00 109.320.00 119,630.00
16 63,890.00 93,420.00 103,570.00 110.370.00 120,860.00
17 64,430.00 94,110.00 104,530.00 111.420.00 122,090.00
18 64,970.00 94,800.00 105,490.00 112.470.00 123,320.00
19 65,510.00 95,490.00 106,450.00 113.520.00 124,550.00
20 66,050.00 96,180.00 107,410.00 114.570.00 125,780.00
21 66,590.00 96,870.00 108,370.00 115.620.00 127,010.00
22 67,130.00 97,560.00 109,330.00 116.670.00 128,240.00
23 67,670.00 98,250.00 110,290.00 117.720.00 129,470.00
24 68,210.00 98,940.00 111,250.00 118.770.00 130,700.00
25 68,750.00 99,630.00 112,210.00 119.820.00 131,930.00
26 69,290.00 100,320.00 113,170.00 120.870.00 133,160.00
27 69,830.00 101,010.00 114,130.00 121.920.00 134,390.00
28 70,370.00 101,700.00 115,090.00 122.970.00 135,620.00
29 70,910.00 102,390.00 116,050.00 124.020.00 136,850.00
30 71,450.00 *540 103,080.00 *690 117,010.00 *960 125.070.00 *1050 138,0 80.00 *1230
Oﬃ  ce Assistant B/ Scooter Riders
  Grade I    Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
1 55,495.00 78,200.00 86,045.00 90.725.00 98,395.00
2 56,035.00 78,890.00 87,005.00 91.775.00 99,625.00
3 56,575.00 79,580.00 87,965.00 92.825.00 100,855.00
4 57,115.00 80,270.00 88,925.00 93.875.00 102,085.00
5 57,655.00 80,960.00 89,885.00 94.925.00 103,315.00
6 58,195.00 81,650.00 90,845.00 95.975.00 104,545.00
7 58,735.00 82,340.00 91,805.00 97.025.00 105,775.00
8 59,275.00 83,030.00 92,765.00 98.075.00 107,005.00
9 59,815.00 83,720.00 93,725.00 99.125.00 108,235.00
10 60,355.00 84,410.00 94,685.00 100.175.00 109,465.00
11 60,895.00 85,100.00 95,645.00 101.225.00 110,695.00
12 61,435.00 85,790.00 96,605.00 102.275.00 111,925.00
13 61,975.00 86,480.00 97,565.00 103.325.00 113,155.00
 Grade I    Grade II Grade III Grade IV Grade V
Fංඋඌඍ ඌർඁൾൽඎඅൾ 
(Contd.)

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 25A
14 62,515.00 87,170.00 98,525.00 104.375.00 114,385.00
15 63,055.00 87,860.00 99,485.00 105.425.00 115,615.00
16 63,595.00 88,550.00 100,445.00 106.475.00 116,845.00
17 64,135.00 89,240.00 101,405.00 107.525.00 118,075.00
18 64,675.00 89,930.00 102,365.00 108.575.00 119,305.00
19 65,215.00 90,620.00 103,325.00 109.625.00 120,535.00
20 65,755.00 91,310.00 104,285.00 110.675.00 121,765.00
21 66,295.00 92,000.00 105,245.00 111.725.00 122,995.00
22 66,835.00 92,690.00 106,205.00 112.775.00 124,225.00
23 67,375.00 93,380.00 107,165.00 113.825.00 125,455.00
24 67,915.00 94,070.00 108,125.00 114.875.00 126,685.00
25 68,455.00 94,760.00 109,085.00 115.925.00 127,915.00
26 68,995 00 95,450.00 110,045.00 116.975.00 129,145.00
27 69,535.00 96,140.00 111,005.00 118.025.00 130,375.00
28 70,075.00 96,830.00 111,965.00 119.075.00 131,605.00
29 70,615.00 97,520.00 112,655.00 120.125.00 132,655.00
30 71,155.00 *540 98,210.00 *690 113,345.00 *960 121.175.00 *1050 133,70 5.00 *1230
Sൾർඈඇൽ Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ
1.  The beneﬁ  ts of the Scheme will accrue to the Employee but will cover th ose persons speciﬁ ed in Clause 18 of the 
Agreement. It shall be the duty of the Employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to 
be included in this Scheme
 No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the fa mily who have not been enrolled.
2. (a)  Reimbursements will only be eﬀ  ected on hospitalization for indoor medical treatments and requires evidence of 
admission to the hospital. Provided however, where the Employee  is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she 
incurs on account of full body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to 
a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum in addition to this entitlement.
 (b)  Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses hi s/her spouse incurs on account of full body medical 
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum, 
under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
3. The Bank must be notiﬁ  ed promptly, and in any event not later than on the ﬁ rst business day following admission to 
hospital.
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out insurance policies cov ering reimbursements under this scheme and the 
Employee shall be required to make declaration (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal Forms) and 
submit documentation required by Bank/Insurers in proper form a nd timely manner to enable to the Bank to obtain 
reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circulars issued from time to time the 
documentary requirement and time limit within which documents should be submitted. Where an Employee does not 
comply, he will not be entitled to beneﬁ ts under this scheme.
5. Employees shall up hold the principle of uberima ﬁ  des when making declarations and submitting claims under this 
                Grade I Grade II Grade III                  Grade IV                    Grade V
Fංඋඌඍ ඌർඁൾൽඎඅൾ (Contd.)

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 26A
scheme and any deviation would disqualify the Employee from rec eiving any beneﬁ t under this scheme. In addition, 
the Employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
6. a)  The Bank will circulate by internal circulars published from time to time a list of Hospitals/Nursing Homes, 
expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and/or deletions to 
this list will also be made by internal circulars.
 b)  If for reasons of geographical location of any Employee be lieves he may not be in a position to use sany of 
the Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in  writing within 30 days of publication of the list 
of amendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub para graph, requesting special dispensation to use a 
named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such applications on a case by case basis and where 
deemed appropriate will grant such special dispensation provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this 
matter shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
Exclusions
 The scheme shall not cover beneﬁ  ts/expenses;
 a) Occasioned by or happening through
  i) The participation by Employee or other eligible family mem bers in war, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, 
Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebell ion, Revolution, Insurrection, mutiny or 
usurped power, military, popular rising or while serving as a m ember of any Defense, Police, Security 
Force, Home Guard, etc.
  ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism or any self inﬂ  icted injury/sickness.
  iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 18 (iv ). Provided that if an Employee has been employed 
for a continues period of 12 months, the Bank will pay the Medical Expenses incurred for any abnormality 
of Maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth wo uld have cost. The responsibility for 
furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost i nvolved, such as a letter from the Doctor/ 
Hospital, will be on the Employee who makes the claim.
  iv) Earthquake, volcanic eruption or Tidal Wave.
 b) Incurred whilst traveling in an Air Craft other than as a t icket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type 
of civil air craft operated by a recognized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil 
air craft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial 
or Industrial ﬁ rm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
 c) In respect of eye test or dental treatment.
 d) Arising from any physical defect or inﬁ  rmity which existed prior to conﬁ rmation in the Bank’s service.
7. The beneﬁ  ts under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words ‘any one year’ in Clause 18 (iii) of the Agreement 
shall be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31st December. In the case of Employees who join during the course 
of a year the overall limit and the event limit up to the perio d ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the 
number of full months of service up to 31st December.
8. In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the 
entitlement of either or both years as applicable.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 27A
Tඁංඋൽ Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ
  The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking 
Technology by the Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
1. Wherever practical the Bank will endeavor to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of VDU/Non VDU tasks 
which seek to provide variation in visual and in mental demands upon the operator.
2. The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly revived  by the Management for the purpose of ensuring proper 
safety and eﬀ ectiveness of the operations.
3. The Bank agrees to provide VDU Operator with adequate traini ng within the parameters of their Job Description to 
ensure the safety and health of Employees.
 4. a)  In selecting VDUs the Bank will attempt to obtain the e quipment which will ensure the following;
   i) Screens that give clear stable images.
   ii) Proper sitting of Key Boards so as to ensure the reducti on of stress and improve maneuverability.
   iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so the level of n oise is kept to a reasonable limit.
  b)  The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
5. The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of scr eens, key boards and provide facilities for placing documents 
and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of Employees.
6. The Bank will endeavor to provide lighting facility to minim ize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
7. Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU, 
will be permitted to visit at the cost of the Bank an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior 
to his commencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adver se report being obtained from the Optician, the 
Employee should inform the Bank immediately.
8. Where an Employee whose main or primary function, as decided  by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a 
VDU and he is already using spectacles when he is call upon to operate a VDU for the ﬁ rst time he will be permitted, 
at the expense of the Bank to be examined by an Optician nomina ted by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining and 
opinion as to whether any modiﬁ cation is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examinatio n and modiﬁ cation to 
the lenses if necessary will be borne by the Bank on the following basis;
  a.  The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outsi de the limits prescribed by the Medical Scheme herein.
 b.  The cost of modiﬁ  cation of the lenses will be met within the Medical Scheme, but if such cost should exceed the 
limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.
9. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a D ata Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the 
Bank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information  at or about the end of each period of 2 hours as long 
as there is no disruption of the smooth ﬂ ow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
10. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to Employees wh ose main or primary function, as decided by the 
Management of the Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however, the Union will be entitled to make representations 
as to whether the main or primary function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute raised 
on this issue.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 28A
11. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench Employe es who become redundant solely and exclusively in 
consequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking T echnology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of 
any one or more of the following options.
 a) The aforementioned excess Employees may be transferred to o ther sections/Departments to perform work which 
is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in 
relation to such Employees. This option refers to a transfer ot her than within the scope of employment, which 
the Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled to eﬀ ect.
 b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an Employee if the employer considers it 
necessary.
 c) The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with Employees who a re redundant for the reasons contemplated in this 
Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment o n terms mutually agreed upon and this will 
not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this Schedule.
12. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean a n involuntary termination of the Employees made 
redundant consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Base d Banking Technology. It will not include a 
situation where such redundant Employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed 
upon.
EOG 04- 0137
My No.: CI/05
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT - CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, No.21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, 
Colombo 01 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part 
on 1st January 2024 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative 
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 H. K. K. A. Jൺඒൺඌඎඇൽൺඋൺ,
 Commissioner General of Labour (Acting).
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
26
th March, 2024
Collective Agreement No. 06 of 2024
COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON PLC, COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANTS AND ALLIED GRADES
This Collective Agreement made and entered on this 01st day of January 2024 between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, 
a Bank duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha (Formerly Bristol 
Street), Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’)
of One Part

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 29A
and
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 20, 
Temple Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’)
of the Other Part
With a view to a revision of the terms and conditions of the Executive Assistants and Allied Grades employed by the Bank, 
an agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms and 
conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees, and maintaining an eﬃ  cient and productive working 
environment, and the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder.
1.  Parties To Be Covered and Bound
 This Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (the Bank), the Ceylon Bank Employees’ 
Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on permanent monthly contracts of employment by the Bank 
in the grade of Executive Assistants and Allied Grades for whom salary range is been prescribed in this Agreement in 
Schedule I hereto (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employees’) subject to the provisions of clauses 5, 6 hereof.
2.  Date of Operation and Duration
 This Agreement shall be in force from the 1st January 2024 and  shall continue until either party terminates it by written 
notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, as amended, but no such notice shall be given before the 31st December 
2026. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence nego tiations for a revised Collective Agreement at any 
time on or after 1st April 2026.
3.  Earlier Agreements
 This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on either party hereto and such 
earlier Agreements, including the Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Collective Agreement for Executive Assistants and 
Allied Grades entered into on 21st January 2021 between the par ties hereto (Agreement No.04 of 2021), shall stand 
repudiated.
4.  Matters Covered and Bound
 (a) This Agreement shall be in full and ﬁ  nal settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all  the matters 
raised by the Union and/or in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion 
of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise 
any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to 
the extent agreed.
 (b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this Agre ement that they shall not during the continuance in force 
of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment or beneﬁ ts 
presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
5.  Consolidated Salary
 Employees covered by this Agreement and in service as at the d ate of this Agreement shall, from the 1st January 2024 
be placed with the salary range stipulated in Schedule I hereto, in the manner set out in clause 6 (i), (ii) and (iii) hereof.
 The Employees entitled to a salary revision with eﬀ  ect from the date of this Agreement will receive such revision with 
eﬀ ect from 1st January 2024 along with EPF and ETF payments.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 30A
6.  Immediate Increase and Conversion of Salaries
  For the placement of an Employee within the salary range stip ulated in Schedule I hereof, the following provisions 
shall apply.
 (i) a) In the ﬁ  rst year of operation of this Agreement, Employees who are in the grade of Executive Assistants 
(who have  completed probation) shall be placed at the minimum salary of Rs. 75,000/- per month with 
eﬀ ect from 1st January 2024.
  b) The minimum salary of all Employees who come to the Execut ive Assistant Grade with eﬀ ect from 2nd 
January 2024 will be placed at Rs.71,000/- per month and such s alary will be increased to Rs. 75,000/- 
upon conﬁ rmation in such Grade.
 (ii) All Employees covered under this Agreement and who are in  service will be given a revision of Rs. 22,000/- and 
will be added to the December 2023 salary.
 (iii) a) The minimum salary of Employees who are already in th e Executive Assistant Grade by 1st January 2024, 
but on probation, will be placed at a minimum salary of Rs.71,0 00/- and will be given an increment rate 
of 7% on the said minimum salary. On completion of the probation period, an increase of Rs. 4,000/- shall 
be added to the salary at the time of conﬁ rmation.
  b) A sum equal to 7% increment of the gross salary paid as at  31st December 2023 or as adjusted in 
accordance with 6 (i) above shall be added to the salaries of such Employees with eﬀ ect from 1st January 
2024, excluding the Employees covered under 6 (iii) (a) above.
 (iv) Every Employee in employment as at the date of this Agree ment and having served in such Grade for a period 
of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increment calculated on the gross 
salary as at 31st December 2024, with eﬀ  ect from 1st January 2025 and proportionately for service less  than 
twelve (12) completed months at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12th) of such increase in respect of each completed 
month of service.
 (v) Every Employee in employment in a Grade covered by this Ag reement and having served in such Grade for a 
period of not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also  receive a further 8% increment calculated on 
the gross salary as at 31st December 2025 with eﬀ  ect from 1st January 2026 and proportionately for service 
less than twelve (12) completed months at the rate of one-twelf th (1/12th) of such increase in respect of each 
completed month of service.
   (vi) Employees will not be entitled to receive any payments by way of a Cost of Living Allowance.
7.  Payments and Reimbursements
 (a) Traveling Payment
  Each Employee shall be entitled to receive a traveling paymen t of Rs 8,000/- per month.
 (b) Holiday Incentive
 
  Each Employee shall be entitled to receive a holiday incentiv e of Rs.58,000/- on account of expenses incurred 
on a holiday during not less than ten consecutive days of annual leave taken in any year.
 (c) Disturbance Payment
  An Employee who will be required to report to work at the fol lowing times will be entitled to a Disturbance 
Payment as follows;

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 31A
   Before 4:00 a.m. -  Rs. 1,300/-
   Before 5:00 a.m. -  Rs. 1,200/-
   Before 6:00 a.m. -  Rs. 1,100/-
   Before 7:00 a.m. -  Rs. 950/-
   Before 7:30 a.m. -  Rs. 750/-
8.  Performance Increments / Date
 (a)  The annual increments due to an Employee will be determin ed in terms of the relevant grading in the annual 
performance appraisal applicable to such Employees and the increment granted shall be as follows;
  i)  Satisfactory performance -  Rs. 1,100/-
  ii)  Good performance -  Rs. 1,350/-
  iii)  Superior performance -  Rs. 1,750/-
  iv)  Outstanding performance -  Rs. 2,000/-
The Performance increment of Rs. 1,100/- will be granted unless it is otherwise withheld on account of disciplinary reasons.
 (b)  The eﬀ  ective dates of annual increments of Employees, is subject to the period during which their annual 
increment falls due which will be as follows;
  i) 1st January
  ii) 1st April
  iii) 1st July
  iv) 1st October
9.  Career Progression Scheme for Secretarial Assistants 
 1)  Promotion from Grade I to Grade II
 a) A Secretarial Assistant who completes seven years in Secret arial Assistant Grade I or a combination of seven 
years as a Stenographer and a Secretarial Assistant, provided she has a minimum of four years experience as a 
Secretarial Assistant, shall be promoted to Grade II after an a pplication made by the Employee. However, that 
promotion to Grade II will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, 
attendance and punctuality, or
 b) Employees who sit and successfully pass the examination of the Academy for Administrative Professionals or 
the Internal Eﬃ  ciency Bar/Aptitude Test will be considered for placement on Grade II, subject to the conditions 
referred to at i) and ii) hereunder, provided, however, that th eir past record of overall performance, attendance 
and conduct as assessed by the Bank justiﬁ es such consideration.
  i) On successful completion of the Certiﬁ  cate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice conducted b y 
the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Eﬃ  ciency Bar/Aptitude Test set by the Bank 
plus ﬁ ve completed years of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade I, or
  ii) On successful completion of the part II of the examinatio n of the Diploma in Secretarial Administrative 
Practice Stage II conducted by the Academy for Administrative P rofessionals plus four completed years 
of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade I.
 c) On promotion to Grade II an employee shall receive not less  than the value of two increments (2) in Grade I 
entitled for “Satisfactory” rating when placed in Grade II.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 32A
 2) Promotion from Grade II to Grade III
 The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a Sec retarial Assistant from Grade II to III after an application 
made by the Employee. However, that promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently 
good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
 a) Any Secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven ye ars in Grade II shall be placed on Grade III, or
 
 b) On successful completion of the Certiﬁ  cate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I conducted by 
the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Eﬃ  ciency Bar/Aptitude Test set by the Bank plus 
ﬁ ve completed years of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade II, or
 c) On successful completion of the Diploma in Secretarial Admi nistrative Practice Stage II conducted by the 
Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four completed years of service in Secretarial Assistant Grade II.
 d) On promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a p oint which will result in an increase of not less than 
the value of two increments in Grade II, entitled for “Satisfactory” rating.
 3) Promotion from Grade III to Grade IV
 The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a Sec retarial Assistant from Grade III to IV after an application 
made by the Employee. However, that promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently 
good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
 a) Any Secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven ye ars in Grade III shall be placed on Grade IV , or
 
 b) On successful completion of the Diploma in Secretarial Admi nistrative Practice Stage II conducted by the 
Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four complete yea rs of service in Secretarial Assistant Grade 
III, or
 c) On successful completion of the Certiﬁ  cate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I con ducted 
by the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the E ﬃ  ciency Bar/Aptitude Test set by the Bank, 
together with Five completed years of services in Grade III.
 d) On promotion to Grade IV an employee will be placed on a po int which will result in an increase of not less than 
the value of two increments on Grade III entitled for “Satisfactory” rating.
10.  Re-designation of Secretarial Assistants to Executive Assi stant Grade
 A Secretarial Assistant shall be considered for re-designation  as Executive Assistant provided he/she possesses the 
following eligibility requirements:
 a) Three years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial  Assistant Grades and passing the Intermediate in 
Banking and Finance/Certiﬁ cate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking an d Finance of the 
Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka.
 b) On completion of the Final Examination - Diploma in Banking  and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and 
Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka.
 
 c) Six years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial A ssistant Grades and the relevant qualiﬁ cations for 
entry as an Executive Assistant.
 d) Six years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial A ssistant Grade without the requisite qualiﬁ cations for 
entry as an Executive Assistant but subject to success at a wri tten examination and IT practical test conducted 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 33A
by the Bank or on conﬁ rmation from the respective Branch Managers/Heads of Departments that the Employee 
concerned is suitable for re-designation and has been performin g duties of an Executive Assistant for four 
consecutive years and the successful completion of the practical test and interview conducted by the Bank.
  
 Provided that where an employee is promoted as a executive Ass istant  under  sub clause (a) above. he/whe shall have  
three  years service  and the  required  qualiﬁ cations or have six years service as a Executive Assistant to be considered 
for promotion thereafter.
 
11. Provident Fund.–
 (a) Rate of Contribution
   The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund shall be :
   Bank’s contribution  - 12% (twelve per cent) * of salary
   Employee’s contribution  - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
   *  Provided however, any increase to the Employers’ contribution  in terms of the EPF Act. no. 15 of 1958 
as  amended and any direction in furtherance to that by the Authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.
   Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated sal ary referred to at Clause 5 hereof subject to 
the Rules of the Provident Fund.
 (b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by  Banks  
  Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Ban k shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid 
on 12 months’ ﬁ xed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/= published by the N.S.B. prevailing as at the 1st January 
for the ﬁ rst half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st Jul y for the second half of the year on the net 
Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
 (c) De ﬁ ciency in Bank’ s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension  
  Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank  and  such employee is not entitled to a pension or 
payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entiled to the diﬀ erence between the Bank’s 
contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and  the employer’s minimum rate of contribution 
he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employee’s Prov ident Fund Act and its amendments from time 
to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf  of such employee. Such deﬁ ciency will be the 
diﬀ erence between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually 
contributed by the Bank up to 31st March 1992.
   From 1.1.1971 to 31.12.80  -  9% of gross salary
   From 1.1.1981 onwards   - 12% of gross salary
  Prior to 31.12.1970 the Employer’s minimum rate of contributi on was 6% of total earnings (gross salary), which 
was less than 10% of basic salary, and therefore no deﬁ ciency arises.
12.  Terminal Beneﬁ  ts
 (a) Pensions 
  An Employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his/ her letter of appointment to the position of 
Executive Assistant with the Bank, shall, upon reaching the ret irement age of the Bank and who is in the 

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 34A
permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have c ompleted not less than 10 years of actual 
continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the following 
basis :
  (i)   Employees opting to retire at 55 years
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   P ensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
   maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years  of Retirement
               55
  (ii)   Employees opting to retire at 60 years
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   P ensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
   maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years  of Retirement
     6 0
 (b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds / Disability  
  An Employee Entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his l etter of appointment to the position of Executive 
Assistant with the Bank and who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a result of inﬁ rmity/ 
disability, as certiﬁ ed by the Bank’s Doctor/ Medical Specialist/ Government Medica l Board, and who is in 
the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall ha ve completed not less than 10 years of actual 
continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension computed on the same 
basis referred to at clause 12 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an Employee is entitled to compensation 
by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled to a 
pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee 
whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre 
- acceptance of pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming 
any balance compensation under any written law.
 (c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights
   An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in expresse d terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt 
for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension a nd any other payments arising there from. The 
payment will be computed on the following basis :
  (i)   Employees opting to retire at 55 years
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   P ensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
   maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years  of Retirement
               
  (ii)   Employees opting to retire at 60 years
   Number of completed years of   Monthly Gross Salary
   P ensionable service (subject to a  X payable for the month
   maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years  of Retirement

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 35A
 The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and ﬁ  nal satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of 
the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deﬁ ciency (if any) in the Bank’s contribution to Provident 
Fund to an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 12.
       
 (d) Death Gratuity  
  On the death of an employee who has been conﬁ  rmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the 
Bank will make a compassionate payment of two Months gross sala ry for each year of completed service 
subject to a minimum of nine months’ gross salary to the legiti mate dependents of the deceased employee, as 
may be determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of 
the death of an employee who is not conﬁ rmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable 
to a conﬁ rmed employee provided that in the case of an employee who has not been conﬁ rmed consequent upon 
a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be cal culated as in the case of a conﬁ rmed employee. 
The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary.  
  Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents 
shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity refe rred to herein or payment by way of compensation 
under any laws in force at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award 
of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in conse-
quence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in 
subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.
 (e) Commuted Pension.
  (i)  An employee entitled to a pension in terms of (a) and (b ) above, may at the time of retirement exercise the 
option to accept a sum of 25% of his monthly pension multiplied by one hundred and twenty (120) by way 
of a lump sum.
  (ii)  Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the m anner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable 
to him during the ﬁ rst ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension  he would have been 
entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the ten years 
the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly pension then 
being paid.
 (f) Alternate Terminal Bene ﬁ t Plan.
  (i)  An employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Beneﬁ  t Plan under the Re-structured Pension Scheme 
oﬀ ered by the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age nor 
will such employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built-in to the terminal beneﬁ ts lump-sum 
payable under the re-structured scheme at the time of retirement/separation.
  (ii) Further, as per the Re-structured Pension Scheme, in the  event of early separation prior to retirement
(excluding death) an employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the Deﬁ ned Con-
tribution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.
  (iii) However, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will be 
released to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs.
 (g) De ﬁ nd Contribution Pension Fund (DCP Fund)
  1. Deﬁ  ned Contribution pension Fund is  a deﬁ  nite  payment in the form of a lump sum, established and 
constituted to provide  and maintain superannuation beneﬁ ts to an eligible employee in lieu of the entitled  

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 36A
gratuity payments under the  gratuity Act,  No. 12 of 1983  at the time of his retirement of seperation from 
service.
  ii. “Eligible Employee’’ , is a regular full time  employee i n the Bank’s service, who  joined the Bank after 
01.01.2000 as a Banking Trainee or to any other grade in the pe rmanent cadre  of the Bank, and  in-
cludes the three employees namely, Mrs. A. C. Hettiarachchi (02142) Mr. V . S. Goonetillake (02409) and 
Mr. H.D.S.C. Perera (03229), but not entitled for the Re-structured Pention/Pension Scheme  of the Bank 
and who has a Period of service of not less than ﬁ ve completed years of actual service.
  iii. Temporary employees on a ﬁ  xed term contract or a pentioner who has  been re-employed by the Bank  after 
retirement are excluded from the above mentioned DCP Fund.
  iv. In the absence of a nomination  of a Nominee or Nominees legal heirs of an eligible employee shall be 
entitled to receive DCP  Fund balance in the form of a commuted Pension lying to the credit  in the name 
of the eligible employee.
13. Medical Scheme
 (i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses - (Non-Hospitalisation Ex penses). 
  The Bank will reimburse an employee up to a maximum of Rs. 10 5, 000/ =  in respect of medical expenditure 
incurred by him/her on his/her behalf or on hehalf of  his/her spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the 
age of 21  in respect of routine non-hospitalization/ non - surgical and specialist treatment :
  An employee who has a diﬀ  erently able childchildren is entitled to receive an amount of Rs.120,000/- per annum 
as medical expenses in addition to the amount speciﬁ ed above, subject to the recommendation of the Medical 
Board and registration with the Compensation and Beneﬁ ts Unit of the Bank.
 (ii) Special Non - Hospitalization and Non - Surgical Expenditu re
  The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non - cumulative bas is a further sum as given below per annum on 
account of special non - hospitalization and non - surgical expenses covering the following items only incurred 
on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members in keeping with existing practice. 
   (a) Spectacles   -  Rs. 55,000/- 
   (b) Dentures / Name ﬁ  lling / Root ﬁ lling   -  Rs. 50,000/-          
   (c) Hearing Aids -  Rs. 65,000/-    
 Subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder a nd subject to the provisions that no claim is made in 
relation to any particular item more than once in three years o ther than in the case of employees over the age of 40 
years who will be entitled to reimbursements on account of spec tacles once in two years. In respect of spectacles, it 
must be supported by a prescription from a medical eye specialist.
 (iii)  Surgical and Hospitalization Expenditure
  
  Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospi talization (whether Government or Private) 
expenses incurred on behalf of the Employee, his spouse and unm arried legitimate children under 21 years of 
age subject to the production of valid documentation covering e very claim or expenditure, up to the following 
limits per annum:
  
  (a)  Hospital or Nursing Room Charges:
  
   Daily Limit  - Rs. 30,000/-
  
   Government Hospital Payment  - Rs. 10,000/-  

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 37A
The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event th e patient has undergone intensive care 
treatment.
  
   (b)  Emergency Treatment Travel
  
    expenses (maximum)  - Rs. 10,000/-
  
    *  The rate is Rs. 100/- per kilometer
  
   (c)  Overall limit for any one year  - Rs. 555,000/-
  
 Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medical checkups, 
without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum in addition to this 
entitlement.
  
 Where the Employee’s spouse is aged 30 years or above, expense s he/she incurs on account of full body medical 
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum, under 
the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
  
 iv)  General
  
   If both Husband and Wife are Employees, and the bills pertai ning to the Surgical and Hospitalization Expenditure 
exceeds the limit of one Employee, the balance to be paid out of the spouse’s entitlement subject to a maximum 
of 50% of the full entitlement/available limit.
   All medical claims mentioned above, except for Reimbursement  of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalization 
Expenses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. Prescriptions or Doctor’s bills 
shall be from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
  
   The Schedule II hereto sets out the terms on which reimburse ment of medical expenditure will be eﬀ ected.
  
14.  Retirement
  
 (a)  The age of retirement shall be 60 years, or any other age  mutually agreed to between the Bank and its Employees, 
and on reaching the age of 60, or any other age mutually agreed  upon, an Employee shall ipso facto retire and 
cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such Employee any notice 
of such retirement.
  
 (b)  An Employee may also be retired within a period of 05 yea rs prior to his retirement age and be eligible for 
retirement beneﬁ ts if he has ten (10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the Employee, 
his Union and the employer that he should be given such concession subject to the condition that the refusal by 
any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
  
15.  Bonus
  
 Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments  are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to every 
Employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salar y as drawn by such Employee for the month of 
December in respect of one complete year of service meaning Jan uary to December and proportionately for service 
less than one year at the rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. However, 
if an employee is terminated/resigned from services before completion of one year meaning January to December, he 
is not entitled for any bonus.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 38A
16.  Probation
  
 Every Employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of si x (6) months probation subject to the right of the Bank 
to extend the period of probation by a period of three (3) months.
  
17.  Release of Parent Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers
  
 An Oﬃ   ce Bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work without payment of any salary, allowance or any other 
payment of whatever nature on the following basis:
  
 (a)  The total number of Oﬃ   ce Bearers so released shall not exceed one
  
 (b)  No Employee shall be released for more than two years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) years.
  
 (c)  On resumption of work by an Oﬃ   ce Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive incremental 
credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence  shall not aﬀ ect his rights under Clause 11 
hereof.
  
18.  Concessions to Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers and Central Committee Members
  
 (a)  The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of no t more than two Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers at any 
one given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable su ch Branch Union Oﬃ  ce Bearers to be present 
at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with the Bank 
Management - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
  
 (b)  It is agreed that Central Committee Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon on 12 days 
in a year for Central Committee meetings. In the case of outstation Central Committee Members, they would be 
permitted leave for the whole day for 12 Central Committee Meet ings in a year. For this purpose an outstation 
Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.
  
 (c)  It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to Central Committee Members to 
attend Parent Union Central Committee meetings.
 (d)  It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be rel eased at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive 
Committee of the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
 
 (e)  It is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of p ay up to a maximum of one day, once in two years, all 
Employees in the membership of the Central Committee of the Uni on and the Union Branch Delegates in the 
Bank, to attend the National Delegates Conference of the Union provided however, that the Bank is given 
two weeks written notice of the Conference and not more than on e employee attached to any single Branch/
Department of the Bank is so released.
  
19.  Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches
  
  The Bank shall permit Oﬃ   ce Bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave to visit outstation branches 
calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each suc h Branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total 
number of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more 
than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.
  
20.  Special Payments/Reimbursements
  
 (a)  Overtime
  
  An Employee required to work outside normal working hours on a weekday will be entitled to an overtime 
payment up to maximum of 4 hours which will remunerated in accordance with the Shop and Oﬃ  ce Employees 
act.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 39A
 (b)  Work on holidays
  
An Employee will be entitled to payment in accordance with Shop  and Oﬃ  ce Employees Act during work on 
holidays.
  
 No Employee will be entitled to a separate Meal/Dinner Payment  for work on holidays.
 (c)  Minicom Centers/Saturday Banking/365 Days Banking
  
  An Employee will be entitled to Payment per Shop & Oﬃ   ce Employees Act during work on holidays.
  
  In the event a Branch not carrying out Saturday or 365 day Ba nking, is directed by the Bank to be opened for 
business on a holiday, Employees who report at the Branch on ac count thereof will also be entitled to claim 
Payment as speciﬁ ed above.
  
  No Employee will be entitled to a separate Meal/Dinner Paymen t for work on weekends/holidays.
  
 Special Payment
  
  (i)  Employees assigned to Supermarket Outlets will be entitl ed for a special payment of Rs. 8,000/- per 
month
  
  (ii)  Employees assigned to Minicom Branches, will be entitle d for a special payment of Rs. 3,300/- per month.
  
 The payment mentioned in (ii) above will be applicable to loca tions;
  
  Where such branch is open to customers on hours which are diﬀ erent to the normal working hours of the 
Bank; i.e. from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on weekdays
  
  Where such branch is located in a separate premises other than a supermarket, but is not provided with 
separate wash rooms/lunch rooms
  
  Where such branch is located in a standalone building, and prov ided with separate wash rooms/lunch 
rooms
  
 As at the time of signing of this Collective Agreement, such M inicom Branches are Akurana, Beruwala, 
Bokundara, Ja-ela, Katubedda, Katugastota, Katukurunda, Kirulapone, Kurenegala, Nawala, Ratnapura.
 (d)  Shift Payment (IT Department/Card Centre/Contact Center/Digital Banking Unit/BIA Arrival and Departure)
  
 Weekdays (additional shift)
  
 An Employee having to work additional hours on weekdays will b e entitled overtime payment as per the Shop 
& Oﬃ  ce Employees Act.
  
 No other payment will be applicable in addition to the above. However, any other allowances/payments such as 
the Disturbance Allowance, Travelling Payment, on-call Allowanc e and Combined Allowance will be paid to 
Employees where applicable.
  
Holidays (day shift)
  
 An Employee having to work on holidays will be entitled to pay ment as per the Shop & Oﬃ  ce Employees Act.
  
 No other payment will be applicable in addition to the above. However, any other allowances/payments such 

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 40A
as the Disturbance Allowance, Dinner Allowance, Travelling Paym ent, on-call Allowance and Combined 
Allowance will be paid to Employees where applicable.
  
Holidays (night shift)
  
 An Employee will be entitled to payment as per to Shop & Oﬃ   ce Employees Act during night work on holidays;
  
Night shift Payment (weekdays/weekends)
  
 An Employee required to work during nights, will be entitled t o a Night Shift Payment of Rs. 1,000/- per night 
in addition to the above.
21.  Professional Association Membership
  
  i. In respect of full membership in the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the Indian Institute of Banking 
and Finance, the Bank will reimburse the Employee the sum paid by way of annual subscription.
  
  ii.  In respect of Associate Membership in the Institute of B ankers of Sri Lanka the Bank will reimburse the 
Employee the sum paid by way of a professional subscription reimbursement.
  
  iii.  In respect of full membership in the Institute of Banke rs of Sri Lanka or the Indian Institute of Banking 
and Finance, the Bank will reimburse the Employee the sum paid by way of annual subscription.
  
  iv.  Provided also, in the event of the Bank requiring an Emp loyee to obtain any qualiﬁ cations of a recognized 
professional organization, other than Institute of Bankers of S ri Lanka, and the Employee fulﬁ  ls such 
requirement, the Bank shall pay subject to the recommendation of the respective Member of the Corporate 
Management and the approval of Deputy General Manager - Human R esource Management the cost of 
such course/examination as well as annual subscription as relev ant on behalf of such Employee to such 
professional organization.
22.  Leave
  
 An Employee will be entitled to leave as applicable to the Exe cutive staﬀ  of the Bank. i.e. 7 days of Casual Leave, 24 
days of Medical Leave and one calendar month (30 days) of Annual Leave, subject to the procedure of granting of the 
said leave.
  
 (a)  Annual Leave
  
  (i)  Entitlement
  
   In respect of each year of employment (which means the perio d January to December) during which an 
Employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled  to take in the following year up to 
one calendar month of paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 10 days out of the calendar month 
on successive days and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 
calendar month.
  
  (ii)  At the end of the ﬁ  rst year of employment the Employee qualiﬁ es for proportionate leave as follows:
  
   a)  The full annual holiday of one calendar month if his emp loyment commenced on or after Ist January 
but before 1ª April.
  
   (b)  A holiday of 21 calendar days if his employment commenc ed on or after 1st April but before 1st 
 July.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 41A
     (c)  A holiday of 15 calendar days if his employment comme nced on or after 1st July but before 1st 
October; and
  
   (d)  A holiday of 08 calendar days if his employment commenc ed on or after 1st October.
  
  (iii)  Availment
   The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authoriz ation of the Bank upon the Employee’s 
application, giving suﬃ  cient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
  
  (iv)  Accumulation
  
   Annual leave may be accumulated by an Employee at the rate o f 10 days per annum exclusively for 
purposes referred hereunder up to a maximum period of 90 days:
  
   (a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the 
Bank.
  
   (b)  For the purpose of attending on an immediate family mem ber who is seriously ill.
  
   (c)  For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior n otice shall be given.
  
   (d)  For marriage of the employee.
  
   (e)  On account of the death of an immediate family member.
  
   (f)  For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyon d the Maternity Leave entitlement.
  
   (g)  For the conﬁ  nement of a wife, by a male employee.
  
   (h)  Prolonged illness of the Employee.
  
  (v)  Any annual leave not utilized by an Employee up to a max imum of 10 days per year in excess of the 
number of 90 days accumulated as provided herein may be encashe d by the Employee on request at an 
amount equal to one day’s salary per cach day unavailed of.
  
  (vi) Provided that in the case of (iv) (b) to (g) the approva l of such leave shall be at the discretion of the 
Management.
  (vii)  Family member for purposes of (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
 (b)  Medical Leave
  
  (i)  Entitlement
  
   An Employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four ( 24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
  
  (ii)  The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for an y days of absence on grounds of sickness not 
supported by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 42A
      (a)  where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive  days including weekly or other holidays, or
  
   (b)  where the number of days already allowed on full pay on  grounds of sickness, uncertiﬁ  ed by a 
Registered Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.
  
  (iii)  Accumulation
  
   An Employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one y ear as prescribed above shall be entitled to 
avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to the 
following provisions:
  
   (a)  in no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on fu ll pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed 
ninety (90) days, and
  
   (b)  the accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on  account of prolonged illness, hospitalization 
or similar circumstances, supported by a Certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
  
   (c)  where an Employee has exhausted his current year’s sick  leave as a result of prolonged illness such 
as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization the emplo yer may permit him to set oﬀ   any 
further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the 
leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
  
 (iv)  The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising th e Employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or take any 
action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a Certiﬁ cate from 
a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances:
  
   (a)  Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona  ﬁ des of the application and/or reason for 
absence of an Employee, or
  
   (b)  Where the absence of the Employee on grounds of sicknes s immediately follows or precedes any 
weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona ﬁ des of the application 
and/or reason for absence of the Employee.
  
 (c)  Casual Leave
  
  An Employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment whereof 
not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time  and such leave shall not precede or follow any 
period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such absence 
is justiﬁ ed to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances t hat could not have been foreseen by such 
Employee.
  
 (d)  Maternity Leave
  
  The leave that an Employee is entitled to in this regard shal l be governed as per the provisions of the Shop and 
Oﬃ  ce Employees’ Act. However, where a female Employee has given  birth to twins/ triplets/ other multiple 
births upon her ﬁ rst conﬁ nement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84 working days in respect 
of her next conﬁ nement, provided it is a live birth.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 43A
  23.  Suspension
  
 (i)  Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inq uiry on investigations, he will, subject to the 
provisions of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months 
and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
  
 (ii)  Where the suspension is on account of charges involving ﬁ nancial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation, 
the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded 
within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary during his suspension 
beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay b eyond six months is due to the employee’s own 
conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or 
conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.
  
 (iii)  In cases not involving ﬁ  nancial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding 
the inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the 
employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police custody or where 
the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not 
receive full pay in these circumstances.
  
24.  Disciplinary Procedure
  
 Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an  employee except, however, in the case of oral warning, 
letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor oﬀ enses, the following procedure shall apply:
  
  (a)  Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended  or not, the employee shall be furnished with 
a show cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such 
show cause letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10 ) calendar days within which to tender his 
explanation in writing to the charges preferred.
 
        (b)  Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of th e show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing 
to the Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided h owever that if in the circumstances it is 
reasonable, the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written 
explanation and where such request is made, the Bank shall norm ally grant such request for such further 
period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
        (c)  If where the employee tenders his explanation with in the period of time allowed to the employee to show 
cause and the Bank is satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s  against the 
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shal l forthwith reinstate the employee and 
shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
  (d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the tim e allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is 
not satisﬁ ed with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry 
into the charges against such employee.
  (e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub- clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from 
the date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do 

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 44A
so for reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the e mployee’s own conduct or seeking, or by 
reason of unforeseen circumstances.
  (f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the 
accused employee or an Oﬃ  ce Bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which  case the Bank 
reserves to itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) to 
defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a 
legal qualiﬁ cation. The defending employee will not suﬀ er any loss of salary for absence from work on 
this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry 
as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. Th e accused employee shall submit to the 
Bank in writing the name of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time 
appointed for the commencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the 
witnesses for the accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Oﬃ  cer will 
be entitled to require a Defending Employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom 
and the Defending Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply w ith such requirement. The absence of 
a Defending Employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever 
shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the ﬁ ndings pursuant thereto. The Observer 
shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring 
Oﬃ  cer may ask him.
  (g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings o f the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and 
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. A fter the proceedings have been certiﬁ ed 
and a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes ther eafter the proceedings shall be taken as a 
true copy of such proceedings before the inquiring Oﬃ  cer.
  (h) The Inquiring Oﬃ   cer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution 
as well.
   (i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the 
employee, in writing, of the ﬁ ndings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed 
by the Employer.
   (j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid  within the said period of thirty (30) 
working days except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of 
the employee, such employee shall not be punished thereafter in  respect of such charges and no 
inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
  (k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any 
of the following circumstances :
  (i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanatio n before the expiry of the time allowed 
to show cause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that 
such employee had no cause to show.
  (ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the char ges against him.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 45A
  (iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but withou t prejudice to the Union’s right to request 
the Employer thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence 
within twenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material 
or relevant.
  (l) The ﬁ  ndings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed  by the Bank shall be ﬁ  nal and 
binding on the Bank and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three 
(3) months from the date on which the Bank had notiﬁ  ed such employee of the ﬁ ndings or punishment, 
raises a dispute in respect of such ﬁ ndings and/ or punishment.
  (m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -
   (i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then  the termination of such employment shall 
take eﬀ ect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the B ank may determine ; provided 
further that the Bank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect 
of salary to the employee in respect of such period of suspensi on, if any such payment has been 
made.
   (ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated,  then the employee shall be employed 
forthwith and shall be paid the entirety of his salary in respe ct of the period of suspension without 
prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose such other punishm ent other than termination, which 
may include the whole or part of the period of suspension pendi ng inquiry, on the basis of the 
ﬁ ndings of the inquiry.   
 
        (n)  The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i)  and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not 
held in view of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being  referred, or has been referred, to the Police 
or other authorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending 
against the employee.
25. Technology.
 (i)  Schedule III hereto contains matters relating to new Comp uter Based Banking Technology agreed upon between 
the parties.
 (ii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters  relating to the introduction of new Computer Based 
Banking Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) 
above.
 (iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union  will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on 
matters relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard 
and any representations/ dispute in that connection shall not f all within the meaning of an industrial dispute 
under the laws of Sri Lanka.
 (iv) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating  to the adverse eﬀ ects of the use of computers shall be 
referred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the 
Monitoring Committee not being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of 

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 46A
Health and Safety of the Labour Department and the recommendati on given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be 
accepted by both parties and where changes are necessary in ter ms of such recommendation the Monitoring 
Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to implement such changes.
26. Trade Union Action.
 (a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement :
  (1) The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agree ment jointly and severally agree with the 
Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement the y shall not engage in any strike or other 
form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demons trations or picketing or any form of 
collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement. How ever, a dispute 
arising out of a faild negotiation for a fresh collective Agreement after 31st day of December 2023, cannot 
be construed intrpreted and / or  implied by the Emplayer as a dispute related to this Agreement.
  (2) In the event been no satisfactory settlement of the dispu te arising our of a failed negotiation for a fresh 
Collective Agreement aforesaid, and if the parent union decides  to resort to any form of  trade union 
action, the paren union shall give at least fourteen (14) day's notice in writing to the Bank, the Employers' 
Federation of Ceylon and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of such trade union action, 
However such notice shall not be given prien to 31st March 2024.
 (b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement :
  The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement  jointly and severally agree with the Bank 
that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade 
Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against 
the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
  (i) The Branch Union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank, 
at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the 
Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)
  (ii)  The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has  intervened in the matter and has exhausted all 
forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation of 
Ceylon.
  (iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give 
notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement 
of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the 
Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
27.  Union Check-oﬀ   Facilities. 
 During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided  the Union has not less than forty (40) per cent 
membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Ba nk shall continue to grant check-oﬀ , provided, 

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 47A
however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union 
violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
28.  Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.
 (i)  Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisﬁ  ed with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being 
implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse  eﬀ ects of computer technology change such 
matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from 
the Bank and two representatives from the Union. The Bank or th e Union may request that a matter be placed 
before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting 
out the cause of complaint.
       (ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreemen t shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950. as amented
29.  Consequences of Termination of Agreement.  
 On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, be neﬁ ts, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union 
and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.
30.  Deﬁ  nitions
  
 In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following 
meanings:
  
Bank    - Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
  
Employee    - An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
  
Employer    - Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
  
Parent Union/Union  - The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.
  
Branch Union   - The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Co mmercial 
Bank of Ceylon PLC.
  
Dispute    - A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Di spute in the Industrial 
Disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the 
Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at such respective Bank.
  
 Salary    - Shall mean the consolidated salary as deﬁ  ned in Clause 5.
 Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminin e.
  
 Words importing the singular number shall include the plural a nd vice versa

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 48A


<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 49A
Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ I
Executive Assistants and Allied Grades
Salary Range
 Rs. 71,000/- per mensem  Rs. 250,000/- per mensem
Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ II
  
1.  The beneﬁ  ts of the Scheme will accrue to the Employee but will cover th ose persons speciﬁ ed in Clause 13 of the 
Agreement. It shall be the duty of the Employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to 
be included in this Scheme.
  
  No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the f amily who have not been enrolled.
  
2. (a)  Reimbursements will only be eﬀ  ected on hospitalization for indoor medical treatments and requires evidence of 
admission to the hospital. Provided however, where the Employee  is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she 
incurs on account of full body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to 
a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum in addition to this entitlement. 
 (b)  Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses hi s/her spouse incurs on account of full body medical 
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per annum. 
under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
  
3.  The Bank must be notiﬁ  ed promptly, and in any event not later than on the ﬁ rst business day following admission to 
hospital.
  
4.  The Bank will be entitled to take out insurance policies co vering reimbursements under this scheme and the Employee 
shall be required to make declaration (including completion and  signing of Insurance Proposal Forms) and submit 
documentation required by Bank/Insurers in proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement 
from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circulars issued from time to time the documentary 
requirement and time limit within which documents should be sub mitted. Where an Employee does not comply, he 
will not be entitled to beneﬁ ts under this scheme.
  
5.  Employees shall up hold the principle of uberima ﬁ  des when making declarations and submitting claims under this 
scheme and any deviation would disqualify the Employee from rec eiving any beneﬁ t under this scheme. In addition, 
the Employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
  
6. (a)  The Bank will circulate by internal circulars published  from time to time a list of Hospitals/Nursing Homes, 
expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and/or deletions to 
this list will also be made by internal circulars.
  
 (b)  If for reasons of geographical location of any Employee b elieves he may not be in a position to use any of 
the Institutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in  writing within 30 days of publication of the list 
of amendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub para graph, requesting special dispensation to use a 
named Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such applications on a case by case basis and where 
deemed appropriate will grant such special dispensation provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this 
matter shall be ﬁ nal and conclusive.

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 50A
Exclusions
  
 The scheme shall not cover beneﬁ  ts/expenses;
  
 a)  Occasioned by or happening through
  
  i)  The participation by Employee or other eligible family me mbers in war, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, 
Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebell ion, Revolution, Insurrection, mutiny or 
usurped power, military, popular rising or while serving as a m ember of any Defense, Police, Security 
Force, Home Guard, etc.
  ii)  Attempted suicide, Alcoholism or any self inﬂ  icted injury/sickness.
  
  iii)  Provided that if an employee has been employed for a co ntinues period of 12 months, the Bank will pay 
the Medical Expenses incurred for any abnormality of Maternity which is in excess of what a normal child 
birth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost 
involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/Hospital, will be on the Employee who makes the claim.
  
  iv)  Earthquake, volcanic eruption or Tidal Wave.
  
 b)  Incurred whilst traveling in an Air Craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type 
of civil air craft operated by a recognized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil 
air craft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial 
or Industrial ﬁ rm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
  
 c)  In respect of eye test or dental treatment.
  
 d)  Arising from any physical defect or inﬁ  rmity which existed prior to conﬁ rmation in the Bank’s service.
  
7.  The beneﬁ  ts under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words ‘any one year’ in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement 
shall be deemed to be the period 1st January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join during the course 
of a year the overall limit and the event limit up to the perio d ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the 
number of full months of service up to 31st December.
  
8.  In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end  of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the 
entitlement of either or both years as applicable.
Sർඁൾൽඎඅൾ III
  
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology by 
the Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
  
1.  Wherever practical the Bank will endeavor to ensure that jo bs are designed to include a mix of VDU/ Non VDU tasks 
which seek to provide variation in visual and in mental demands upon the operator.
  
2.  The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly revive d by the Management for the purpose of ensuring proper 
safety and eﬀ ectiveness of the operations.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 51A
  3.  The Bank agrees to provide VDU Operator with adequate tra ining within the parameters of their Job Description to 
ensure the safety and health of Employees.
  
4.  a)  In selecting VDUs the Bank will attempt to obtain the e quipment which will ensure the following;
    i)  Screens that give clear stable images.
  
  ii)  Proper sitting of Key Boards so as to ensure the reducti on of stress and improve maneuverability.
  
  iii)  Equipment which is quiet in operation so the level of n oise is kept to a reasonable limit.
  
 b)  The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance t o ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
  
 c)  The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of s creens, key boards and provide facilities for placing 
documents and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of Employees.
 d)  The Bank will endeavor to provide lighting facility to min imize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
  
 e)  Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by th e Management of the Bank, is the operation of a 
VDU, will be permitted to visit at the cost of the Bank an Opti cian selected by the Bank to have his eyesight 
examined prior to his commencing employment on a VDU. In the ev ent of an adverse report being obtained 
from the Optician, the Employee should inform the Bank immediately.
  
 f)  Where an Employee whose main or primary function, as decid ed by the Management of the Bank, is the 
operation of a VDU and he is already using spectacles when he is call upon to operate a VDU for the ﬁ rst time 
he will be permitted, at the expense of the Bank to be examined  by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the 
purpose of obtaining and opinion as to whether any modiﬁ  cation is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such 
examination and modiﬁ cation to the lenses if necessary will be borne by the Bank on the following basis;
  
  i.  The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outsi de the limits prescribed by the Medical Scheme 
herein.
  
  ii.  The cost of modiﬁ  cation of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost 
should exceed the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.
  
5.  Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the 
Bank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information  at or about the end of each period of 2 hours as long 
as there is no disruption of the smooth ﬂ ow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
  
6.  The provisions of this Agreement will apply to Employees wh ose main or primary function, as decided by the 
Management of the Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however, the Union will be entitled to make representations 
as to whether the main or primary function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute raised 
on this issue.
  
7.  The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench Employe es who become redundant solely and exclusively in 
consequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking T echnology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of 
any one or more of the following options.
  
 a)  The aforementioned excess Employees may be transferred to other sections/Departments to perform work which 
is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in 

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'17
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 17.04.2024
 52A
relation to such Employees. This option refers to a transfer ot her than within the scope of employment, which 
the Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled to eﬀ ect.
  
 b)  The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above,  re-train an Employee if the employer considers it 
necessary.
 c)  The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with Employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this 
Agreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment o n terms mutually agreed upon and this will 
not amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this Schedule.
  
8.  For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean a n involuntary termination of the Employees made 
redundant consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Base d Banking Technology. It will not include a 
situation where such redundant Employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms of mutually agreed 
upon.
EOG 04 - 0138
      
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.