

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
857
857
wxl 1"862 - 2014 uehs 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'05'09
No. 1,862 – FRIDAY , MAY 09, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 860
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 860
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th May, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th May,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—  Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,861 of 02.05.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
858
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
859
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
860
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th of June, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd April, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Alawwa Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General/Kandyan) of Dambadeni General, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala.
05–233
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY -
KATUNAYAKE
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NATIONAL
DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE - 2014 BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering 2014 batch for the above course
of studies at the Institute of Engineering Technology (IET),
Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualification for Entry .– Candidates with
qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply.
1.1.1 A Pass at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects
in one sitting including three (03) credit passes for
Mathematics, Science, Language, (Sinhala/Tamil/
English).
and

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
861
1.1.2 Credit pass for English subject at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination.
and
1.2 Passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) in Combined Mathematics,
Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.
or
1.3 Passes at the GCE (A/L) in Combined Mathematics,
Physics and Information Technology in one sitting.
2. Age.– Between 18 and 25 years as at 31.12.2014.
3.Duration and Course Schedule. – This is a four year course,
where the 18 month academic instruction Programme is sandwiched
with the 30 Month Industrial Training as given below :-
Basic Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 12 Months
General Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
General Industrial Training in Industry - 12 Months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 06 Months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 06 Months
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions and
Laboratory Practicals conducted at Institute of Engineering
Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial Establishments.
An English course will be conducted outside the course period.
at the beginning. Participation is compulsory for all the
selected apprentices for the English course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows  :–
A. Civil Engineering Sector :
1. Civil - Building and Structural Engineering.
2. Civil - Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Civil - Water and Environmental Engineering.
B. Electrical Engineering Sector :
4. Electrical - Electronics Engineering.
5. Electrical - Electrical Power Engineering
6. Electrical - Telecommunication Engineering.
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector :
7. Mechanical - Automotive Engineering
8. Mechanical - Mechanical General Engineering
9. Mechanical - Marine Engineering
(a) "The Quality Managment System of Marine Engineering
Course of IET is in accordance with the requirements of
ISO 9001-2008".
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course, the Institute is
engaged in providing academic instructions and industrial
training Programmes to meet the mandatory requirements
for knowledge, understanding and proficiency in Marine
Engineering at the operational level related with STCW
95, including its amendments and model course 7.04 of
International Maritime Organization (IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction .– All academic programmes are
conducted in English.
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a contract
with the training establishment which consists, mutual
obligations on both the training establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5000, refundable at the
completion of the course.
The deposit of the students who are leaving the
programme within two weeks from the date of registration
will be refunded.
6.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the refundable
deposit, on submission or original Sumurdhi Card with a
certified letter from Grama Sevaka approved by
Divisional Secretary.
6.3 All selected students will have to make a compulsory
payment of Rs. 1,000 as a non refundable library
development fund at the registration, Samurdhi
beneficiaries are exempted for this payment.
6.4 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.5 All the students registered for the above courses, should
maintain a minimum requirement of attendance specified
by the Institute for each subject during the course period.
Those who fail to meet this requirement, are not allowed
to sit for the examination and evaluations and they have
to leave the course.
7. Award of Certificates.– National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of all
examinations, evaluations and on clearance of all obligations.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry
qualifications as stated in para 1 and within the age limit
mentioned in para 2 above, would be eligible. Selections
will be done as given below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible will be required to sit
for a written aptitude test in English medium. (Eligible
candidates will be informed in advance.)
8.3 All applicants are selected, based on the written test,
marks and the interview marks.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
862
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior to the registration.
9. Applications :
9.1 Certified copies of educational qualifications {G . C. E.
(O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L)} must be attached with the
application. Applications without copies of educational
certificates will be rejected.
9.2 All applicants should pay a non-refundable examination
fee of Rs. 500 (Rs. 700 for applications downloaded from
the IET web site.) as per the details of 9.3 to any branch
of People’s Bank.
9.3 The Pay-In-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following:
(i) Branch Code and Account No: 276-1-001-8-
6351396.
(ii) Credit Instruction: To the credit of National
Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority
collection account No. 276-1-001-8-6351396. at
People’s Bank, Katunayake.
(iii) Name & the Address of the Applicant.
9.4 Applications & additional information can be obtained
from IET web site (www.iet.edu.lk)
9.5 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs.200 in cash, or by post
by sending a money order for Rs.200 with a self-addressed
stamped envelope (size 9"x4") to Registrar, Institute of
Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake  up
to 20th June 2014. The above Money Order should be
drawn in favour of the Accountant, Institute of
Engineering Technology, payable at Katunayake Post
Office. (Telephone No. 011-2252833/  011-2252834 /
011-2254667)
9.6 Students, obtaining applications from IET website, have
to pay Rs. 700 as the examination fee.
9.7 Duly filled application forms, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director / Principal,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake along with the Pay-In-Slip duly signed by
an Authorized officer of the Bank, on or before 20th
June 2014. "Recruitment of Special Apprentices – 2014"
should be mentioned in the left hand corner of the
envelope. Late applications or applications forwarded
by hand will not be accepted.
9.8
Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.9 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
9.10 Application forms also could be obtained from the
following offices up to 20th June 2014 on payment of
Rs.200/= in cash.
(i) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, 971, Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
Welikada, Rajagiriya. (Telephone No. 011-2888782-
7)
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, 581, Galle Road,
Katubedda,  Moratuwa. (Telephone No. 011-
2643847)
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute, 07,
Denister De Silva Mawatha, Orugodawatta,
Wellampitiya. (Telephone No.011-2572977 / 011-
2532182)
(iv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 10/4" Malwatta Road, Badulupitiya.
Badulla. (Telephone No. 055-2230644)
(v) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Vidyala Road, New Town, Ratnapura.
(Telephone No. 045-2228667)
(vi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, 27 A, Open University Road, Nupe,
Matara. (Telephone No. 041-2226958)
(vii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No.108/2B, ThiwankaBodhi Mawatha,
Kandy. (Telephone No. 081-2201918)
(viii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Airpart Road, Anuradhapura. (Telephone
No. 025-2223178)
(ix) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa,
Kurunegala. (Telephone No. 037-2223789)
(x) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Somasundaram Road, Chundikkuli,
Jaffna. (Telephone No. 021-2222383)
(xi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No.06, G S Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13,
Kalmunai. (Telephone No. 067 – 2229357)
(xii) Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority, No.
242, Havelock Road, Colombo 05. (Telephone No.
011-2597671/011-2587258)
(xiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, 326/2,Main Street,Kaluthara South.
(Telephone No. 034-2224239)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
863
(xiv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 61/5, Minuwangoda Road,
Gampaha. (Telephone No. 033-2232874)
(xv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Molawatta Medagama Road,Madampe.
(Telephone No. 032-2248250)
(xvi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, A/6, Mahaweli Quarters, New Town,
Polonnaruwa.  (Telephone No. 027-3223023)
(xvii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Kachcheri Complex, Monaragala.
(Telephone No. 055-2276504)
(xviii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority No.77/3, Hospital Lane, Nuwara Eliya.
(Telephone No. 052-2223702)
(xix) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 11, Temple Road, Mandandawala,
Matale. (Telephone No. 066-2223173)
(xx) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 440, Kandy Road, Meepitiya,
Kegalle. (Telephone No. 035-2223127)
(xxi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No.395, Wakwella Road, Julgaha, Galle.
(Telephone No. 091-2235628)
(xxii)National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 34, Mihindu Mawatha, Tangalle.
(Telephone No. 047-2241512)
(xxiii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority,Mankulam Road, Mulliyawalai,
Mulathiw. (Telephone No. 021-2061012)
(xxiv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, Kandy Road, Anandapuram,
Kilinochchi. (Telephone No. 034-3942824)
(xxv) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 58, Arunagiri Road, Trincomalee.
(Telephone No. 026-2226569)
(xxvi) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, 16/1, New Kalmuni Road, Batticaloa.
(Telephone No. 065-2228130)
(xxvii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, 49/21, 1st Lane, Kovil  Road,
Kurumankadu, Vavuniya. (Telephone No. 024-
2224679)
(xxviii) National Apprentice & Industrial Training
Authority, No. 952/1, Old Moor, Street, Nallayar
Street, Mannar.  (Telephone No. 023-2223404)
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology will not be
responsible for any delay or loss of applications in the mail.
Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their applications
well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman,
National Apprentice & Industrial
Training Authority.
No. 971, Sri Jayewardenepura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
05–72
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Sri Lanka Customs Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT OF CUSTOMS, GRADE II OF SRI
LANKA CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT - 2014
THE Open Competitive Examination for reccruitment to the Posts
of Assistant Superintendent of Customs, Grade II of the Sri Lanka
Customs Department will be held only in Colombo by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in July 2014. The date of
the examinatin will be notified in due course through the newspapers.
The Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right of
postponing of canceling this examination.
Applications are invited for these posts from both males and
females possessing the qualifications given below :
02. Eligibility :–
(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the
fact that he/she :
(a) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Is of excellent moral character,
(c) Is not less than 22 years and not more than 28 years
of age, as at the closing date of applications.
Note.– No person ordained in any religious sect shall be
permitted to sit this examination.
(ii) Physical requirements.– In the case of males, their height
should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest not less
than 33 inches (When expanded). In the case of females
their height should not be less than 5 feet 3 inches.
(iii) Educational qualifications.– The candidates must possess
the following educational qualifications :–

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
864
(a) A degree obtained from a recognized university ;
and
(b) At least a credit pass in English language as a subject at
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level).
Examination (English language as an optional subject is
not considered) ; or
(c) A simple pass (Minimum) in English Language as a
subject at the General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) Examination.
Note.– No person will be eligible to sit this examination,
on pending results of a degree examination. However
a person who has passed a degree of a recognized
University may be permitted to sit this examination,
when an official letter obtaiend from the Registrar of
the University is produced to the effect, that he/she
has passed the degree examination.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary .– The consolidated monthly salary scale
attached to the post is as follows :- Rs. 16,720 -320x10
-365x11 -450x15 - Rs. 30,685 (Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006 (IV) MN 5-2006A).
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(iii) Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a
probationary period of three years with effect from the
date of appointment.
(iv) The appointees must undergo a medical examination held
by a Government Medical Officer to test whether he/she
is physically fit to serve in any part of the island.
(v) The appointees are bound to serve day and night on any
part of the island.
(vi) The attention is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to the posts in Public Service which have
been published at the beginning of Part I : Section (IIA)
of the Government Gazette Notification.
04. Scheme of Examination. – The scheme of examination for
recruitment is as follows :–
Marks
01. Aptitude Test (01 hour) 100
02. English Language (01 1/2 hours)
100
Total 200
===
Aptitude Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test the
language skills, the ability in mathematical and logical reasoning.
(This paper will consist of 50 multiple questions and questions for
short answers). All questions should be answered.
English Language Paper.– This paper will test the reading, writing,
comprehension and communication skills of the candidates. All
questions should be answered.
Note.–  This examination will be conducted in all the three
languages Sinhala, Tamil  and English. Candidates should
sit this examination in the same medium in which they
passed the qualifying examination referred to in paragraph
02(iii) of the this notification ( i. e. Sinhala or Tamil or
English). However, a candidate who has passed the
quailfying examination sitting it in Tamil or English medium
or a candidate whose medium of study is Tamil or English
medium may answer in Sinhala medium at the Examination
if he desires. It is not permitted to change the language
medium applied.
(i) Marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting
and wrong spelling.
(ii) Admission cards of the examination will be sent
to the eligible candidates by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt of an
admission card must not be treated as a fulfillment
of qualifications to sit the examination.
(iii) Evaluation : Candidates who score 60% or more
each paper will be listed in a priority list. No of
candidates participate to the no of vacancies will
be called for the structured interview starting from
the candidate who has obtained the highest marks.
Maximum of 10 marks will be awarded for the
sports talents at the structured interview. No
marks will be awarded at the general interview
and will consider only the marks obtained at the
written examination and the structured interview.
Information regarding the qualifications submitted
will be vertified at the interview.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview :
Marks for individual sports at the zonal level.–  3 marks
for the first place, 2 marks for the second place and 1
mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level.– 4 marks
for the first place, 3 marks for the second place and 2
marks for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the national level.– 5 marks
for the first place, 4 marks for the second place and 3
marks for the third place.
Marks for a member of a team game at the zonal level.– 3
marks for the first place, 2 marks for the second place
and 1 mark for the third place.
Mraks for member of a team game at the district level.– 4
marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second place
and 2 marks for the third place.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
865
Marks for a member of a team game at the national level.–
5 marks for the first place, 4 marks for the second place
and 3 marks for the third place.
05. Basic of selection .– Candidates who are successful at the
written examination and the interview will be selected for conferment
of appointments. A maximum of 10% of the number of vacancies
will be reserved for female candidates.
(i) Release of results.– The Department of Examinations will
be prepared and sent the result list to the Director General
of Customs in order of merit from among those who have
sat the written examination, presented themselves for the
interview and scored the highest aggregate of marks.
The Department of Examination will issue the result
to all candidates whose sat the examination by post
or will publish in official website :
www.resualts.examination.gov.lk
Note.– The nature of the work in customs department is such
that even the female officers will have to attend to night
duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should have
fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing applications
for the examination.
07. Method of application :–
(i) A specimen form of the application has been given at the
end of this notification. Candidates should prepare their
application forms themselves in the medium on which
they intend to sit the examination conforming to the
specimen form referred to above and fill them in their
own hand writing. Every cage of the application must
be filled by the candidates as instructed and if there are
cages not applicable, the words "not applicable" should
be entered such cages. It must be noted strictly that
leaving blank cages in the application will cause the
applications liable to be rejected. (Heading numbers 01
to 06 of the specimen form should be on the first page
07 to 11 in the second page and the rest in the third page
of the application that need to be prepared in A4 size
papers). The title of the examination should be written
in English too, in Sinhala and Tamil applications. Keeping
a copy of the duly filled application may be concern
advantages.
(ii) The completed application form must be sent under
registered post on or before 04.06.2014 to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations. P. B. 1503, Colombo. Any applications
received after the due date will be rejected. The name of
the examination should be written clearly on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application
is enclosed. (It is advised to retain a photocopy of the
filled application with the candidate).
(iii) The examination fee is Rs. 750. This fee should be paid
at any District/Divisional Secretariat office to the credit
of the revenue Head Number 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
must be attached to the application and it is advised to
retain a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
This fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
(iv) Candidates who are already employed in Government
Departments/Corporations/Boards must forward their
applications through the Heads of their Department or
Institutions in which they are serving at present.
Candidates are erquested to forward their applications
to heads of their Departments or Institution well on
time with a request that they be transmitted to the
Commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach
him on or before 04.06.2014. The applications should
not be sent addressed personally to the Director General
of Customs or any other officer of the Department.
Applications received after the due date ; even if they
are forwarded by the departments will be rejected. If
the attestation of the signature of an applicant who is in
Government Service does not bear the signature and the
official seal of the Head of Department/Head of the
Institution, such applications will be rejected.
(v) Attestation.– The signature of an applicant who is in
Government Service should be attested by his/her Head
of Department or by an officer authorized to do so on
his behalf. The signature of other applicants should be
attested by a person authorized to do so,  i. e. a Justice
of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, a
Notary Public, a Principal of a Government or a
Government Managed School, a Commissioned Officer
of the Navy, Air Force or Army, a permanent Public
Officer drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or over,
a Chief Incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist temple or
any other religion in charge of a place of worship or
holding a position of importance.
08. (i) Admission to the Examination .– The Comissioner
General of Examinations will issue admission cards to
all persons whose applications have been received.
The Department of Examinations notifies in the news
papers the issuance of admission card immediately
after their issuance, if a candidate does not receive his/
her admission card even after two or three days of such
advertisement steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department
of Examination ; i. e. Applicant name, Address, Identity
Card Number, Name of the examination applied and
your letter of request stating the fax number which the
admission card should be sent if the candidates is
resident out of Colombo.
(ii) A candidate must sit the examination hall assigned to
him/her. Every candidate must get his signature attested

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
866
in advance and hand over the admission card to the
supervisor on the first day he/she presents himself/
herself for the examination. A candidate who fails to
produce his/her admission card will not be permitted
to sit the examination. The rules for candidates are
given separately in Part I : Section II(A) of this Gazette
Notification. Candidates will be bound to observe these
rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to candidate does not
mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their Identity. Any of the following documents will be
accepted for this purpose :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Person.
(b) A valid passport issued not more than five years before
the date of examination.
The candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at
the discretion of the Commissioner General
Examinations.
10. Documents of Eligibility :
(i) No documents, certificates or photocopies of such
certificates. Other than the receipt of examination fee and
the document relating to the "Note" at Heading 02 where
application should be forwarded with the application.
But the necessary particulars should be provided in the
form, as prescribed. An application which is not completed
conforming to these requirements will be judged on its
own merits and may be rejected.
(ii) Candidates, who have qualified to be called for the
interview, should prove their eligibility by producing
document proof.
(iii) The originals of the following documents will be required :
(a) A certificate of moral character signed by a
responsible person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained from
a Justice of the Peace, Attorney-at-Law, Divisional
Secretary of the area of residence, or a permanent
Government Officer in receipt of an annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or over or some
person who issue the certificate must be clearly
indicated on the certificate. (Candidates holding
permanent posts in Government service will not be
required to furnish certificates of moral character).
(a) A certified copy of the entry of the registration of
the birth of candidate or a Special Certificate of age
issued by the Register General (in the case of
candidates whose birth has been not registered).
Note :
(i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school or
educational purposes, or a certified extract from the
birth registration entry will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
(iii) If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate
differs/differ from the name/names which the
candidate generally uses and under which the
candidate sits the examination, action should be taken
immediately in terms of Sections 27 and 28 as the
case may be, of the Births and Deaths Registration
Act, (Chapter 110) to get the name in the entry of
the registration of birth amended.
(iv) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
(v) Original certificate of educational qualifications or
where the certificate has not been issued, other
official documents, e. g. an official letter issued by a
Registrar of a University to the effect that the
candidate has passed the Degree of examination result
sheet issued to the candidate by the Department of
Examinations, stating that he/she has obtained a
Credit pass in English language at the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
examination or Simple pass in English Language at
the General Certificate of Education (Advanced
Level) Examination.
(vi) Documentary proof of achievements of sports at
Zonal/District/National levels.
(vii) Candidates are warned to have all the necessary
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding the
application. Any candidate who fails to produce the
necessary documents or who delay in producing
them when called for will be made disqualified for
appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate is found to be false to best of his/her
knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact,
or if it is proved, at any time during the period of his/her service
that he/she was ineligible to sit the examination, he/she will be liable
to immediate dismissal from the service. The candidature of those
who do not strictly conform to the requirements laid down in this
notification will be cancelled.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
867
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with at the discretion of the Secretary, to the Ministry of
Finance and Planning.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
The Secretariat,
Colombo 01.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF CUSTOMS, GRADE II OF SRI LANKA
CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT - 2014
(For office use only)
Medium in which you sit this examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
01. Name of the Applicant :
1.1 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(English capital letters) Ex. : SILV A, B. A.
1.2 Name with initial (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.3 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
(Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address (English capital letters) :–––––.
Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :––––––.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card :
3.1 Number of the Identity Card :
3.2 Date of Issue :
04. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the box).
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By descent - 1
By registration - 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
06. Ethnicity :
Sinhalese - 1 Ceylon Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3 Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5 Other - 6
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. ( a) Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
(b)  Age on the closing date of application :
Years Months Dates
08. Physical requirements :
(i) Height :............... feet :............... inches :...............
(ii) Chest (when expanded) :............... inches :...............
(Only for male candidates)
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the Court of
Law ? (Yes/No) :––––––––––.
If yes, give details :––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
Name of the Degree Class of Year Subjects
University Degree
(i) Highest qualification in English Language at the examination
of General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) :
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
(ii) Highest qualification in English Language at the examination
of General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
11. Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
(i) Name of the District/Divisional Secretariat Office :–––––.
(ii) Amount Paid Rs. :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of payment :––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidate)
(These particulars should be given compulsorily).

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
868
12. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance
after selection. Furthermore, I would abide by rules and
regulations of the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the conducting of the examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. Attestation of Applicant's signature (Delete whichever
inapplicable) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss .................. who is submitting this
application is personally known to me and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on this ....................... day of .................
2014. I also certify that he/she has paid the due examination fee and
has attached the paid receipt.
Signature of Attester :––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The attestation should be made by a person referred
to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification.
14. I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is submitting
this application is an employee of this Ministry/Department/
Board/Corporation. In the event of his/her selection for the
above post he/she can be released.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the Department :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address of the Department :––––––––––.
05–237/1
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Sri Lanka Customs Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF INSPECTOR OF
CUSTOMS, GRADE II OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
DEPARTMENT - 2014
THE Open Competitive Examination for reccruitment to the
Post of Inspector of Customs, Grade II of the Sri Lanka Customs
Department will be held in July 2014 in main towns throughout the
island mentioned in the Schedule I hereto. The date of the
examination will be notified in due course through the newspapers
by the Department of Examinations. The Sri Lanka Customs
Department reserves the right of postponing of canceling this
examination.
Centers where examination will be held and there numbers.
S
CHEDULE I
Province City City Number
Western Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kaluthara 03
Central Kandy 04
Mathale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Southern Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Northern Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullativue 13
Kilinochchi 14
Eastern Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomale 17
North West Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
North Central Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Uva Badulla 22
Moneragala 23
Sabaragamuwa Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
The number and  town in which the Applicant whishes to sit for
the examination should be indicate clearly. In the event of a certain
examination centre is not established in a certain District due to
insufficient candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their
second choice and if the second choice too cannot be granted they
are referred to centre closest to that District. Changes will not be
allowed later with regard to the requested town.
Applications are invited for these posts from both sexes
possessing the qualifications given below :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
869
02. Eligibility :–
(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the
fact that he/she :
(a) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Is of excellent moral character,
(c) Is not less than 18 years and not more than 24 years
of age on the date of closing of applications.
Note.– No person ordained in any religious sect shall be
permitted to sit this examination.
(ii) Physical requirements.– In the case of males, their height
should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest not less
than 33 inches (When expanded).
In the case of females their height should not be less than
5 feet 3 inches.
(iii) Educational qualifications.– The candidates must possess
the following educational qualifications :–
(a) Pass three main subjects in one sitting at the General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) ; and
(b) Pass within two sittings six subjects at the General
Certificates of Education (Ordinary Level) with five
credit passes including credit passes for Sinhala
Language or Tamil Language and Mathematics as main
subjects and least a simple pass for English Language.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary .– The consolidated monthly salary scale
attached to the post is as follows :- Rs. 14,280 -145x7
-180x10 -240x17 - Rs. 21,175 (Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006 (IV) R-S-1-2006)
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(iii) Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a
probationary period of three years with effect from the
date of appointment.
(iv) The appointees must undergo a medical examination held
by a Government Medical Officer to test whether they
are physically fit to serve in any part of the island.
(v) The appointees are bound to serve day and night on any
part of the island.
(vi) The attention is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to the post in Public Service which have been
published at the beginning of Part I : Section (IIA) of the
Government Gazette Notification.
04. Scheme of Examination. – There are following three (03)
question papers for the scheme of examination for recruitment :–
Marks
01. Aptitude Test 100
02. Mathematics 100
03. English Language
100
Total 300
===
Aptitude Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test the
language skills, the ability in logical reasoning. (This paper will consist
of 50 multiple questions and questions for short answers). All
questions should be answered.
Mathematics Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test
the abiity in Mathematics. All qeustions should be answered.
English Language Paper.– This paper will test the reading, writing,
comprehension and communication skills of the candidates. All
questions should be answered.
Note :
(i) This examination will be conducted in all the three
languages Sinhala, Tamil  and English. Candidates should
sit this examination in the same medium in which they
passed the qualifying examination referred to in
paragraph 02(iii) of the this notification. However, a
candidate who has passed the qualifying examination in
Tamil or English medium or a candidate whose medium
of study is Tamil or English medium may answer in
Sinhala medium at the Examination if he desires. It is
not permitted to change the language medium applied.
(ii) Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and wrong
spelling.
(iii) Admission cards of the examination will be sent to the
eligible candidates by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt of an admission card must
not be treated as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit the
examination.
(iv) Evaluation : Marks of 60% or above for each question
paper will be totaled and will be arranged in the
descending order. No. of candidates participate to the
No. of vacancies will be called for the structured
interview starting from the candidate who has obtaind
the highest marks. Maximum of 10 marks will be
awarded for the sports talents at the structured interview.
No marks will be awarded at the general interview and
will consider only the marks obtained at the written
examination and the structured interview. Information
regarding the qualifications submitted will be verified at
the interview.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
870
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview :
Marks for individual sports at the zonal level : 3 marks for
the first place, 2 marks for the second place and 1 mark
for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level : 4 marks
for the first place, 3 marks for the second place and 2
marks for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the national level : 5 marks
for the first place, 4 marks for the second place and
3 marks for the third place.
05. Basic of selection .– Candidates who are successful at the
written examination and the interview willbe selected for conferment
of appointments. 10% of the number of vacancies will be reserved
for female candidates.
05. (i) Release of results.– The Department of Examinations will
be prepared and sent the result list to the Director General
of Customs in order of merit from among those who
have sat the written examination, presented themselves
for the interview and scored the highest aggregate
of marks. The Department of Examination will
issue the result to all candidates whose sat the
examination by  post  or  will  publish  in  official  website :
www.resualts.examination.gov.lk
Note.– The nature of the work in customs Department is such
that even the female staff has to work the night duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should have
fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing applications
for the examination.
07. Method of application :–
(i) A specimen form of the application has been given at the
end of this notification. Candidates should prepare their
application forms themselves in the medium on which
they intend interview to sit the examination conforming
to the specimen form referred to above and fill them in
their own handwriting. Every cage of the application
must be filled by the candidates as instructed and if
there are cages not applicable, the words "not applicable"
should be entered such cages. It must be noted strictly
that leaving blank cages in the application liable to be
rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 05 of the specimen
form should be on the first page 06 to 11 in the second
page and the rest in the third page of the application
that need to be prepared in A4 size papers). The title of
the examination should be written in English too, in
Sinhala and Tamil applications.
(ii) The completed application form must be sent under
registered post on or before 04.06.2014 to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations. P. O. Box 1503, Colombo. Any
applications received after the due date will be rejected.
The name of the examination should be written clearly
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed. (It is advised to retain a
photocopy of the filled application with the candidate).
(iii) The examination fee is Rs. 500. May be paid at any
District/Divisional Secretariat Office to the credit of
revenue Head Number 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt must be attached
to the application and it is advised to retain a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate. This fee will not be
refunded under any circumstances.
(iv) Candidates who are already employed in Government
Departments/Boards/Corporations must forward their
applications through the Head of the Department or
Institutions in which they are serving at present.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications
to Heads of their Departments or Institution well on
time with a request that they be transmitted to the
Commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach
him on or before 04.06.2014.
The applications should not be sent addressed
personally to the Director General of Customs or any
other officer of the Department. Applications received
after the due date ; even if they are forwarded by the
Departments will be rejected. If the attestation of the
signature of an Applicant who is in Government Service
does not bear the signature and the official seal of the
Head of Department/Head of the Institution, such
applications will rejected.
(v) Attestation.– The signature of an Applicant who is in
Government Service should be attested by his/her Head
of Department or by an officer authorized to do so on
his behalf.
The signature of other Applicants should be attested
by a person authorized to do so, i. e. a Justice of the
Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, a
Notary Public, a Principal of a Government or a Director
Managed School, a Commissioned Officer of the Navy,
Air Force or Army, a permanent Public Officer drawing
an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or over, a Chief
Incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist temple or any other
religion in-charge of a place of worship or holding a
position of importance.
08. (i) Admission to the Examination .– The Comissioner
General of Examinations will issue admission cards to
all persons whose applications have been received.
The Department of Examinations notifies in the news
papers the issuance of admission card immediately
after their issuance, if a candidate does not receive his/
her admission card even after two or three days of such
advertisement steps should be taken to notify the

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
871
Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department
of Examination ; i. e. Applicant name, Address, Identity
Card Number and Name of the examination applied
and in case of applicants outside of Colombo, letter of
request furnishing a fax number to which admission
cards should be sent.
(ii) A candidate must sit the examination hall assigned to
him/her. Every candidate must get his signature attested
in advance and hand over the admission card to the
supervisor on the first day he/she presents himself/
herself for the examination. A candidate who fails to
produce his/her admission card will not be permitted
to sit the examination. The ruels for candidates are
given separately in Part I : Section II(A) of this Gazette
notification. Candidates will be bound to observe these
rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to candidate does not
mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their identity. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for this purpose :
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport issued not more than five years before
the date of examination.
The candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at
the discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
10. Documents of Eligibility :
(i) No documents, certificates or photocopies of such
certificates. Other than the receipt of examination fee
should be forwarded with the application. But the
necessary particulars should be provided in the form, as
prescribed.
(ii) The originals of the following documents will be required :
(a) A certificate of moral character signed by a
responsible person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained from
a Justice of the Peace, Attorney-at-law, Divisional
Secretary of the area of residence, or a permanent
Government Officer in receipt of an annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or over or some
person who issue the certificate must be clearly
indicated on the certificate. (Candidates holding
permanent posts in Government service will not be
required to furnish certificates of moral character).
(b) A certified copy of the entry of the registration of
the the birth of candidate or a Special Certificate of
age issued by the Registrar General (in the case of
candidates whose birth has been not registered).
(i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school or
educational purposes, or a certified extract from the
birth registration entry will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certiticate
differs/differ from the name/names which the
candidate generally uses and under which the
candidate sits the examination, action should be taken
immediately in terms of Section 27 and 28 as the
case may be, of the Births and Deaths Registration
Act, (Chapter 110) to get the name in the entry of
the registration of birth amended.
(iii) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
(iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications or
where the certificate has not been issued, other
official documents.
(v) Documentary proof of achievements of sports at
Zonal/District/National levels.
(vii) Candidates are warned to have all the necessary
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding the
application. Any candidate who fails to produce the
necessary documents or who delay in producing
them when called for will be made disqualified for
appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination.
If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be
false to best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully
suppressed any material fact, or if it is proved, at any time during
the period of his/her service that he/she was ineligible to sit the
examination, he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal from the
service. The candidature of those who do not strictly conform to
the requirements laid down in this notification will be cancelled.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with at the discretion of the Director General of Customs.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
872
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Director General of Customs.
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
“Customs House”,
No. 40, Main Street,
Colombo 11.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS
OF INSPECTOR OF CUSTOMS, GRADE II OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
DEPARTMENT - 2014
(For office use only)
Town selected and the Town Number : (See the schedule I)
Town Town Number
1
2.
Medium in which you sit this examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
01. Name of the applicant :
1.1 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(English capital letters) Ex. : SILV A, B. A.
1.2 Name with initials (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.3 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
(Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address (English capital letters) :–––––.
Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :––––––.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card :
3.1 Number of the Identity Card :
3.2 Date of issue :
04. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By descent - 1
By registration - 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
06. Ethnicity :
Sinhalese - 1 Ceylon Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3 Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5 Other - 6
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
07. ( a) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(b)  Age on the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
08. Physical requirements :
(i) Height : feet :––––––– inches –––––––.
(ii) Chest (when expanded) : inches :–––––––.
(Only for male candidates)
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the Court of
Law ? (Yes/No) :––––––––.
If yes, give details :––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
(i) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) in one
sitting :
Year of examination :–––––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subjects Perform ance
(ii) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) :
Subjects Performance Year Index Number
(iii) Have you obtained a simple pass for English Language at
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) :
(Yes/No)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
873
11. Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
(i) Name of the District/Divisional Secretariat Office :–––––.
(ii) Amount Paid Rs. :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of payment :––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidate)
(These particulars should be given compulsorily).
12. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance
after selection. Furthermore, I would abide by rules and
regulations of the Commissioner General of Examination regarding
the conducting of the examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. Attestation of Applicant's signature (Delete whichever
inapplicable) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss .................. who is submitting this
application is personally known to me and that he/she placed his/
her signature in my presence on this ....................... day of .................
2014. I also certify that he/she has paid the due examination fee and
has attached the paid receipt.
Signature of Attester :––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The attestation should be made by a person referred to
in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification.
14. I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is submitting
this application is an employee of this Ministry/Department/
Board/Corporation. In the event of his/her selection for the
above post he/she can be released.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the Department :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address of the Department :––––––––––.
05–237/2
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Sri Lanka Customs Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF CUSTOMS
GUARD, GRADE - III OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
DEPARTMENT - 2014
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts
of Customs Guard, Grade - III of the Sri Lanka Customs Department
will be held in July 2014 in main towns throughout the island
mentioned in the Schedule I hereto. The date of the examination will
be notified in due course through the newspapers by the Department
of Examinations. The Sri Lanka Customs Department reserves the
right of postponing of cancelling this examination.
Centers where examination will be held there numbers.
S
CHEDULE I
Province City City Number
Western Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kaluthara 03
Central Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Southern Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Northern Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Eastern Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
North West Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
North Central Anruadhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Uva Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Sabaragamuwa Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
874
The number and  town in which the applicant whishes to sit for
the examination should be indicate clearly. In the event of a certain
examination centre is not established in a certain district due to
insufficient candidates, they are referred to a centre as per their
second choice and if the second choice too cannot be granted they
are referred to centre closest to that district. Changes will not be
allowed later with regard to the requested town.
Applications are invited for these posts from both sexes
possessing the qualifications given below :
02. Eligibility :–
(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the
fact that he/she :
(a) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Is of excellent moral character,
(c) Is not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years
of age as at the closing date of applications.
Note.– No person ordained in any religious sect shall be
permitted to sit this examination.
(ii) Physical requirements.– In the case of males, their height
should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest not less
than 33 inches (When expanded).
In the case of females their height should not be less than
5 feet 3 inches.
(iii) Educational qualifications.– The candidates must possess
the following educational qualifications :–
(a) Pass six main subjects in one sitting at the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) including
credit passes in Sinhala Language or Tamil Language
and Mathematics and English Language.
03. Conditions of Service .– When called for the examine the
eligibility to recruit a Customs Guard, Grade III the candidate should
undergo training as a beginner in the next six month at a place
determined by the Director General of Customs. And allowance is
paid during the training period (but no salary is paid). The candidates
will be examined in the use of firearms and fighting methods of self
defense at the end of the training. Those who reach the required
level of training will be recruited to a permanent post in the Customs
Department. The services of the failures will be terminated.
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale attached
to the post is as follows :- Rs. 12,210- 130x10- 145x10-
160x10 - 170x12- Rs. 18,600 (Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006 (IV) P-L-2-2006-A).
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(iii) Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a
probationary period of three years with effect from the
date of appointment.
(iv) The appointees must undergo a medical examination held
by a Government Medical Officer to test whether they
are physically fit to serve in any part of the island.
(v) The appointees are bound to serve day and night on any
part of the island.
(vi) The attention is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to the posts in Public Service which have
been published at the begining of Part I : Section (IIA) of
the Government Gazette Notification.
04. Scheme of Examination.– The examination for recruitment
consists the follwoing question papers (two) :–
Marks
01. Aptitude Test (01 hour) 100
02. Mathematics (01 1/2 hours) 100 –––
Total 200
===
Aptitude Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test the
language skills, the ability in logical reasoning. (This paper will consist
of 50 multiple questions and questions for short answers). All
questions should be answered.
Mathematics Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test
the ability in Mathematics. All qeustions should be answered.
Note :
(i) This examination will be conducted in all the three
language Sinhala, Tamil  and English. Candidates should
sit this examination in the same language medium in
which they passed the qualifying examination referred
to in paragraph 02(iii) of the this notification. However,
a candidate who has passed the quailfying examination
in Tamil or English medium or a candidate who was
educated Tamil or English medium may answer in Sinhala
medium at the Examination if he/she desires. It is not
permitted to change the applied language medium
subsequently.
(ii) Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and wrong
spelling. Candidates whose handwriting is illegible are
liable to be disquailfied.
(iii) Admission cards of the examination will be sent to the
eligible candidates by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. But the receipt of an admission card must
not be treated as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit the
examination. The candidates are bound by rules and
regulations of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and if the candidates breach such rules

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
875
and regulations they would have to face the punishment
imposed by him.
(iv) Evaluation : Marks of 50% or above for each question
paper will be totaled and such candidates will be called
for the structured interview on the descending order of
totals according to the prevailing number of vacancies.
Maximum of 10 marks will be awarded for the sports
talents at the structured interview. And then will be
referred to a general interview in which no marks will be
awarded, and will examine only the fulfillment of
requirements necesary for the post.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview :
Marks for sports at the zonal level : 3 marks for the first
place, 2 marks for the second place, and 1 mark for the
third place.
Marks for sports at the district level : 4 marks for the first
place, 3 marks for the second place and 2 marks for the
third place.
Marks for sports at the national level : 5 marks for the first
place, 4 marks for the second place, and 3 marks for the
third place.
05. Basic of selection .– Candidates who are successful at the
written examination and the interview will be selected for conferment
of appointments. 10% of the approved cadre will be reserved for
female candidates.
(i) Release of results.– The Department of Examinations will
be prepared and sent the result list to the Director General
of Customs in order of merit from among those who have
sat the written examination, presented themselves for the
interview and scored the highest aggregate of marks.
The Department of Examination will issue the result
to all candidates whose sat the examination by
post or will publish in 
www.resualts.examination.gov.lk
official website :
Note.– The nature of the work in customs department is such
that even the female staff has to work to the night duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should have
fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of applications for the
examination.
07. Method of application :–
(i) A specimen form of the application has been given at the
end of this notification. Candidates should prepare their
application forms themselves in the medium on which
they intend interview to sit the examination conforming
to the specimen form referred to above and fill them in
their own hand writing. Every cage of the application
must be filled by the candidates as instructed and if
there are cages not applicable, the words "not applicable"
should be entered such cages. It must be noted strictly
that leaving blank cages in the application liable to be
rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 05 of the specimen
form should be on the first page 06 to 11 in the second
page and the rest in the third page of the application
that need to be prepared in A4 size papers). The title of
the examination should be written in English too, in
Sinhala and Tamil applications.
(ii) The completed application form must be sent under
registered post on or before 04.06.2014 to reach "The
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations. P . O. Box 1503, Colombo". Any
applications received after the due date will be rejected.
The name of the examination should be written clearly
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed. (It is advised to retain a
photocopy of the filled application with the candidate).
(iii) Candidates who are already employed in Government
Department/Corporations/Boards must forward their
applications through the Head of their Department or
Institutions in which they are serving at present.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications
to heads of their Departments or Institutions well on
time with a request that they be transmitted to the
Commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach
him on or before 04.06.2014. The application should
not be sent addressed personally to the Director General
of Customs or any other officer of the Department.
Applications received after the due date ; even if they
are forwarded by the departments will be rejected. If
the attestation of the signature of an applicant who is in
Government Service does not bear the signature and the
official seal of the Head of Department/Head of the
Institution, such applications will rejected.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 400. This fee should be paid
at any District/Divisional Secretariat office to the credit
of the revenue Head Number 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
must be attached to the application and it is advised to
retain a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
This fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
(v) Attestation of the signature .– The signature of an
applicant who is in Government Service should be
attested by his/her Head of Department or by an officer
authorized to do so on his behalf. The signature of other
applicants should be attested by a person authorized to
do so, i. e. a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths,
Attorney-at-Law, a Notary Public, a Principal of a
Government or a Director Managed School, a
Commissioned Officer of the Navy, Air Force or Army,
a permanent Public Officer drawing an annual salary of
Rs. 240,360 or over, a Chief Incumbent or a Head of a
Buddhist temple or any other religion in charge of a
place of worship or holding a position of importance.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
876
08. Admission to the Examination .– The Comissioner General
of Examinations will send admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have ben accepted. Candidates presenting themselves
for the examination must produce their admission cards with duly
attested signature to the supervisor of the examination hall.
A candidate who fails to produce such a card will be refused
admission to the examination.
 A candidate must sit the examination hall assigned to him/her. A
candidate at the examination presenting himself/herself at an
examination hall other than the one assigned to him/her will not be
allowed to sit the examination. Every candidate presenting himself/
herslf for the examination must hand over his/her admission card to
the supervisor on the first day of examination. The rules for
candidates are given separately in Part I : Section (IIA) of this
Gazette notification. Candidates will be bound to observe these
rules.
The Department of Examinations notifies in the newspapers
the issuance of admission card immediately after their issuance, if a
candidate does not receive his/her admission card even after two or
three days of such advertisement steps should be taken to notify
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement.
It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time
of calling the Department of Examination ; i. e. Applicant full name,
Address, National Identity Card Number and Name of the
examination applied, your letter of request stating the fax number
which the admission card should be sent if the candidates is resident
out of Colombo.
09. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates will be required to
prove their identity. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for this purpose :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport issued not more than five years before
the date of examination.
The candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at
the discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
10. Documents of Eligibility :
(i) No documents, other than the receipt of examination fee
should be forwarded with the application. But the
necessary particulars should be provided in the form, as
prescribed. An application which is not completed
conforming to these requirements will be judged on its
own merits and may be rejected.
(ii) Candidates, who have qualified to be called for the
interview, should prove their eligibility by producing
document proof.
(iii) The originals of the following documents will be required :
(a) A certificate of moral character signed by a
responsible person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained from
a Justice of the Peace, Attorney-at-Law, Divisional
Secretary of the area of residence, or a permanent
Government Officer in receipt of an annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or over or some
person whose name is known and to whom reference
can be readily made. The name, designation and address
of the person who issues the certificate must be clearly
indicated on the certificate. Candidates holding
permanent posts in Government Service will not be
required to furnish certificates of moral character.
(a) A certified copy of the entry of the registration of
the the birth of candidate or a Special Certificate of
age issued by the Register General (in the case of
candidates whose birth has been not registered).
Note :
(i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school or
educational purposes, or a certified extract from the
birth registration entry will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be
accepted as substitutes for Birth Certificates.
If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate
differs/differ from the name/names which the
candidate generally uses and under which the
candidate sits the examination, action should be taken
immediately in terms of Sections 27 and 28 as the
case may be, of the Births and Deaths Registration
Act, (Chapter 110) to get the name in the entry of
the registration of birth amended.
(iii) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
(iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications or
where the certificate has not been issued, other
official documents.
(v) Documentary proof of achievements of sports at
Zonal/District/National levels.
(vi) Candidates are warned to have all the necessary
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding the
application. Any candidate who fails to produce the
necessary documents or who delay in producing
them when called for will be made disqualified for
appointment as a begin to this post.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
877
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate is found to be false to best of his/her
knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact,
or if it is proved, at any time during the period of his/her service
that he/she was ineligible to sit the examination, he/she will be liable
to immediate dismissal from the service. The candidature of those
who do not strictly conform to the requirements laid down in this
notification will be cancelled.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with at the discretion of the Director General of Customs.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Director General of Customs.
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
"Customs House",
No. 40, Main Street,
Colombo 11.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST
OF CUSTOMS GUARD, GRADE - III OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
DEPARTMENT - 2014
(For office use only)
Town selected and the Town Number (See the Schedule I)
Town Town Number
1
2.
Medium in which you sit this examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
01. Name of the applicant :
1.1 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
Ex. : GUNAWARDENA, M. G. B. S. K.
1.2 Name with initial (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.3 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
(Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address (English capital letters) :–––––.
Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :––––––.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card :
3.1 Number of the Identity Card :
3.2 Date of issue :
04. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the box).
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By descent - 1
By registration - 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
06. Ethnicity :
Sinhalese - 1 Ceylon Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3 Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5 Other - 6
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. ( a) Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
(b)  Age on the closing date of application :
Years Months Days
08. Physical requirements :
(i) Height : feet :–––––––– inches :––––––––.
(ii) Chest (when expanded) inches :––––––––.
(Only for male candidates)
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the Court of
Law ? (Yes/No)
If yes, give details :––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) in one sitting :
Year of examination :–––––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subject No. Su bject Performance

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.05.2014
878
11. Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
(i) Name of the District/Divisional Secretariat Office :–––––.
(ii) Amount Paid Rs. :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of payment :––––––––––.
(iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidate)
(These particulars should be given compulsorily).
12. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance
after selection. Furthermore, I would abide by rules and regulation
of the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
conducting of the examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. Attestation of Applicant's signature (Delete whichever
inapplicable) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................. who is submitting
this application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on this ....................... day of
................. 2014. I also certify that he/she has paid the due
examination fee and has attached the paid receipt.
Signature of Attestor :––––––––––.
Full Name of Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The attestation shuld be made by a person referred to
in Paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification.
14. I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... who is
submitting this application is an employee of this Ministry/
Department/Board/Corporation. In the event of his/her
selection for the above post he/she can be released.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp) :
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the Department :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address of the Department :––––––––––.
05–237/3
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.