

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
949
949
wxl 1"676 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'15
No. 1,676 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 21st October, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 950
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Tamil version of this Gazette is separately printed.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
950
Provincial  Council  Notifications
UV A   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Proposed Draft Amendment Statute to Amend the Uva Governor's Fund Statute
No. 03 of 2003 of the Uva Provincial Council
I herewith publish the above proposed draft of Statute which will be enforce in the Uva Provincial Council for public comments.
It is notified that after a lapse of 10 days of publishing in the Gazette this notice will be submitted to the Uva Provincial Council.
If it is expected to submit any matter regarding the matters included in this Statute such matters should be informed to me within 10 days
of this Notifications.
H. M. SOMA THILAKA,
Secretary to the Governor of Uva,
Uva Governor's Office,
Badulla.
Office of the Governor - Uva,
King's Street,
Badulla,
15th September, 2010.
A  Statute to amend the "Uva Governor's Fund" Statute No. 03 of 2003 for the Statute of
"Uva Governor's Fund" of No. ....... of 2010 of the Uva Provincial Council
Be it enacted by the Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
01. This Statute may be cited as the Uva Governor's Fund (Amendment), Statute No. ........... of 2010.
02. The clause "The Chief Minister of Uva Province" in Section 3(2)b of the Statute No. 03 of 2003 regarding the
fund of the Governor of Uva Province is Amended and subtituted as "The Chief Minister of Uva Province or his
representative named by the Chief Minister".
03. The following Clause is hereby included as the Clause 12 of the Principal Statute.
"In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this Statute, the Sinhala text shall
prevail".
10–495
––––––––––––––––
DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA  –  UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Draft of the Proposed Rent Statute of the Uva Provincial Council
I herewith publish the draft of above proposed statute which will be enforced in the Uva Provincial Council for public comments .
Short title.
Amendment of
Clause 03(2)b of the
principal statute.
Inclution of Clause
12 in the Principal
Statute.
Sinhala text to
prevail in event of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
951
The Statute will be submitted to the Uva Provincial Council for approval after 10 days of this has published. If any comments
to be forwarded related to the contents of this Statute, should be forwarded to the below address within 10 days after this not ice.
MINISTER R. M. KUMARASIRI RATHNAYAKA,
Ministry of Road Development, Water Supply,
Consumer Affairs and Co-operative and Food
Supply and Distribution.
At the Ministry,
No. 301,  R. H. Gunawardana Mawatha,
Badulla,
28th September, 2010.
UV A PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
D
RAFT OF THE PROPOSED RENT STATUTE OF UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
This Statute cited to set provisions in the Uva Province to protect rights of the people who dwell in rental houses in the Uva
Province and to provide necessary facilities for who dwell and to be deemed for their well-beings and to be achieved the goals of this
statute by providing necessary legal provisions to be enforced the Rent Act, No. 07 of 1972 in the Uva Province and to establis h
institutions and organizations with legal power to implement the statute and incidental matters thereto.
This statue is consistent with the Rent Act, No. 07 of 1972 and amended Acts thereto.
Be it enacted by the Uva Provincial Council according to the power vested to the Uva Provincial Council by the 13th
Amendment to the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Statute known as the Rent Statute of Uva Provincial Council and this Statute shall come into
operation on the date approved or on the date determined by the Governor of the Uva Porvince.
2. It is lawful to entrust the responsibilities as mention hereinafter to accomplish the duties and tasks
mentioned in the Rent Act, No. 07 of 1972 and the amended Acts, thereto, hereinafter known as
"Relevant Acts", within Uva Province.
3. The area that covers Badulla and Monaragala Administrating Districts known as Uva Province, hereinafter
known as the "Province".
4. (1) The constituted authority established in terms of the 13th amendment to the Constitution of
Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka for Uva Province to enforce the current activities
according to the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 is known as Uva Provincial Council and
shall be mentioned as Parliament in the relevant Acts, the Provincial Council shall be accomplished,
when enforcing the constituted liability in the Province.
(2) Shall be mentioned as house of representative in the relevant Acts, the liable what demised by the
Acts, to be enforced, should be accomplished by the members of the Uva Provincial Council, in the
Province.
5. (1) The subject Minister of Housing of Uva Provincial Council known as the Minister of this Province,
shall be mentioned as "Minister" in the relevant Acts, the activities of the Provincial Minister shall
be legalized when the duty and task demised him to be accomplished in the Province.
(2) The regulations made by the Minister currently in force shall be deemed as made by the Provincial
Minister, when enforcing the relevant Act in the Province, enforcing as according to the Minister's
Regulation of this Act is legitimated. Also the Provincial Minister shall be able to be abolished the
current order, alternate, make amendment or make regulation.
6. A Department of Provincial Housing shall be established to accomplish the duty and task mentioned in
the relevant Acts. The Department shall be enforced as a unit or section under the subject Ministry of
Housing of Uva Province.
Short title and date
of operation.
Relevant Acts.
Uva Province.
Provincial Council.
Provincial Minister.
Establishing
Provincial Housing
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
952
7. When the relevant Acts enforce in the Uva Province, shall be mentioned as "National Housing Department"
in the said Acts and shall be accomplished the duties and tasks and bearing liability mentioned in the
paragraph 6 above and implementing the task to the extent motioned in the 13th Amendment to the
Constitution by the Provincial Housing Department is legitimated.
8. (1) A Commissioner shall be appointed by the Governor of Uva Province for the Provincial Housing
Department as mentioned in the paragraph 6 above, the appointed officer shall be a Grade One
officer of the Administrative Service of Sri Lanka.
(2) When enforcing the relevant Acts in the Province, shall be mentioned as "National Housing
Commissioner" or "Commissioner" and he should accomplish the duties and tasks what mentioned
and demised by the Acts and enforcing shall be done to the extent mentioned in the 13th Amendment
to the Constitution, in the Province by the Housing Commissioner of the Province, implementing
as such shall be legitimated.
9. While enforcing the relevant Acts in the Uva Province, shall be mentioned as "National Housing Fund"
or "Repairs Fund" and to be accomplished the duties and tasks which demised by the relevant Acts, a
fund shall be formed known as "Provincial Housing Account" the performance what shall be accomplished
by the National Housing Fund, implementing as such tasks by the "Provincial Housing Account" of
Uva Province shall be legitmated.
10. (1) In the relevant Acts, where ever known as "Local Authority", the Pradeshiya Sabhas which
currently under operation shall be incorporated and where ever mentioned Urban Council or
Village Council, enforcing duties substituting by Pradeshiya Sabha shall be legitimated.
(2) When enforcing the relevant Acts in the Uva Province, as mentioning Urban Councils and Village
Councils in the relevant Acts and liability of the duties and tasks which demised to such institute,
shall be enforcing by Pradeshiya Sabha and bearing the liability is legitimated.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Enlgish or Tamil text of this Statute, the
Sinhala Text shall prevail.
10–560/1
–––––––––––––––––
NOTICE  OF  CLOSING  OF  THE  LIQUIDATION  IN  TERMS  OF  SECTION  57(2)  OF  THE  CO-OPERATIVE
SOCIETIES  LAW,  No.  05  OF  1972  AS  AMENDED  BY  CO-OPERATIVE  SOCIETIES  LAW  AMENDMENT
ACT,  No.  32  OF 1983  AND No.  11  OF  1992
NOTICE is hereby given of the Close of Liquidation from the date indicated as per the Schedule appended herewith in terms of Se ction
57(2) of the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 05 of 1972 as amended by Co-operative Societies Law Amendment Act, No. 32 of 1983 and
No. 11 of 1992.
J. S. ARUI RAJ,
Commissioner of Co-operative Development and
Registrar of Co-operative Societies,
Northern Province.
CCD and RCS (NP)
Serial No. Former Rgd. No. Name of Society Date of closed District
01 J/1390 Alaveddy North Poomagal CCS (unlimited) 17.03.2004 Jaffna
02 JE/107 Puloly Tobacco Products CS (unlimited) 26.01.2006 Jaffna
03 J/931 Puthukamam CCS (unlimited) 26.01.2006 Mannar
04 MN/35 Mannar District Industries COOP Societies Union (limited) 10.05.2006 Mannar
05 MN/44 Nanattan MPCS Union (limited) 24.05.2006 Mannar
06 MN/143 Mannar District Coconut and Palm Product CS (limited) 12.06.2006 Mannar
07 SS/25 Erukkalampiddy Ladies Maha Vidyalaya CS (unlimited) 21.09.2006 Mannar
Provincial Housing
Commissioner.
Provincial Housing
Account.
Incorporation of
Pradeshiya Sabha.
Sinhala text to
prevail in event of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
953
08 SS/22 V idaththaltivu Maha Vidyalaya CS (unlimited) 07.03.2007 Mannar
09 VM/144 Kondachchikuda Mohammadiya CCS (unlimited) 29.06.2007 Mannar
10 VM/10 Maruthonduvan Vellankulam CCS (unlimited) 29.06.2007 Mannar
11 VN/133 Erukkalampiddy Noon CCS (unlimited) 04.07.2007 Mannar
12 MN/148 Mannar North Electrote Development CS (limited) 04.07.2007 Mannar
13 MN/51 Sinnapandivirichchan MPCS (limited) 20.09.2007 Mannar
14 VM/63 Erukkalampiddy Ameen CCS (unlimited) 09.10.2007 Mannar
15 J/1164 Kovilkulam CCS (unlimited) 06.06.2008 Vavuniya
16 J/929 Chalampaikulam CCS (unlimited) 06.06.2008 Vavuniya
17 V/432 Rasenthirankulam CCS (unlimited) 30.07.2008 Vavuniya
18 VM/62 Puthukulam CCS (unlimited) 30.07.2008 Vavuniya
19 VM/138 Vavuniya West MPCS (limited) 15.12.2008 Vavuniya
20 VM/28 Thavasiakulam CCS (unlimited) 15.12.2008 Vavuniya
21 MN/156A Erukkalampiddy Teacher TCCS (unlimited) 30.10.2009 Mannar
22 J/33 Thirunelvely East CCS (unlimited) 02.12.2009 Jaffna
23 JE/91 Kovilakandy Centre CCS (unlimited) 08.03.2010 Jaffna
10–496
––––––––––––––––
DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
Uva  Provincial  Council
DRAFT OF THE PROPOSED HOUSING DEVELOPMENT STATUTE OF THE UV A PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
I herewith publish the draft of above proposed statute which will be enforced in the Uva Provincial Council for public comments .
The Statute will be submitted to the Uva Provincial Council for approval after 10 days of this has published. If any comments
to be forwarded related to the contents of this Statute, should be forwarded to the below address within 10 days after this not ice.
MINISTER R. M. KUMARASIRI RATHNAYAKA,
Ministry of Road Development, Water Supply,
Consumer Affairs and Co-operative and Food
Supply and Distribution.
At the Ministry,
No. 301, R. H. Gunawardana Mawatha,
Badulla,
28th September, 2010.
D
RAFT OF THE PROPOSED HOUSING  DEVELOPMENT  STATUTE OF UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
This Statute cited to provide provisions to select the beneficiaries for housing development programs in the Uva Province and
providing material assistances, loans, financial assistances, land or constructed houses for them and project planning for promotion of the
housing facilities, enforcing, co-ordinating, monitoring, administrating the progress and deeming financial assistances as such to enforce
them and financial management for the allocated such and necessary community based organization shall be established to get the
participation of the people that who are on the objective of housing development and to share the power to such and deem provis ions to
provide necessary infrastructure facilities for housing development project in accordance to the 5th Section of first list of t he ninth
Schedule of Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and according to the provisions of
power vesting to Provincial Council. This Statute is inconsistent with the National Housing Development Authority Act, No. 17 of 1979.
As the policy of Uva Provincial Council is providing appropriate houses to dwell to all the habitants of Uva
Province by fulfilling their necessity of houses by providing necessary assistance to obtain or construct a house.
Serial No. Former Rgd. No. Name of Society Date of closed District
Preamble.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
954
Be it enacted by the Uva Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka :–
1. This statue known as Uva Provincial Housing Development Statute and this statue shall come into operation on
the date approved or a set date of the Governor, hereinafter known as the "governor" of the Province.
PART I
GENERAL
2. The goal of this statute is to provide ncessary provisions to obtain apt houses to dwell for the habitants of Uva
Province of providing necessary facilities to construct them in the Province.
3. A Department of Housing Development of Uva Province should be established to accomplish the duties and
tasks of this statute and achieve the goal mentioned above Section 2 and it shall be organized as a separate
Department or a unit.
4. A Commissioner (hereinafter known as the "Commissioner") shall be appointed by the Governor as the head of
the Department mentioned above Section 3 and he should be an officer of grade one of the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service.
5. Assistant Commissioners and other officers shall be appointed to assist the Commissioner of Housing of the
Province.
6. The Commissioner shall be subjected to the general and special provisions of the subject Minister (hereinafter
known as the "Minister") of Housing of the province and the Secretary (hereinafter known as the "Secretary")
to Ministry of Housing of the Uva Province.
PA RT II
POWERS AND DUTIES
7. The commissioner shall be liable to accomplish the duties and tasks mentioned below determined by the
Minister and the Secretary.
(1) Organizing systematize projects to provide building materials and financial assistances to the low incomers
and who exist on public assistance.
(2) Providing loans to the low incomers for housing.
(3) Organizing Handicraft Housing projects.
(4) Manufacturing building materials for housing development.
(5) Providing infrastructural facilities for housing development project.
(6) Providing additional necessary facilities to the projects what demised to the public
(7) Recognizing appropriate lands for the Housing Development Projects, developing the lands and constructing
houses on the same lands.
(8) Recognizing and selecting beneficiaries for houses and land and demising houses and lands to them.
(9) Providing appropriate lands to who do not have apt lands for housing.
(10) Making appropriate methodology with the concurrence of the Minister to provide material assistances,
financial assistances and loans.
(11) Appropriate methodology shall be made with the concurrence of the Minister to recover loans and the
value of the asset.
(12) The funds what flows on goals of housing development from various source shall be utilized to appropriate
projects with the concurrence of the Minister and the Secretary.
(13) Planning implementing administrating, managing, monitoring and evaluating housing development projects.
(14) Working towards to establish community based organizations for the purpose of housing development and
registration shall be made as such.
(15) Written agreements shall be made on behalf of the secretary for the purpose of housing development with
the same goal oriented organization and institutions, signatories for the official documents and working
towards with the organizations and institutions as such.
Short title and date
of operation.
Goal.
Housing
Development
Department.
Commissioner of
Provincial Housing.
Appointing other
officers.
The duty and task of
Housing
Commissioner.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
955
(16) Providing facilities to the beneficiaries to get loans through the local fund sources for the purpose
of this statute.
(17) Assume and charge rental, lease or charges for the buildings provided in accordance this statute.
8. In order to achieve the goals of this statute, the Minister shall have the powers below :
(1) Approval shall be made to assume moveable and immovable properties or properties such as
granted or other, conserving, administrating, promoting, leasing, mortgaging, transferring or releasing
any other ways on the objective of housing development.
(2) Determine the qualifications and income limit of the beneficiaries, when granting building materials,
financial assistances, loans, lands and houses to low incomers.
(3) The land allocated for the goal of Housing Development shall be approved, as such consumed for
the same purpose.
(4) Determine shall be made the limit of funding, interest, installments, amount and the time frame
when donating loans, financial assistance, lands, houses or material.
(5) Appropriate regulations shall be enacted for the purpose of this statute.
9. (1) The provision shall be deemed towards to allocate funds annually from the budget of the Provincial
Council for the purpose of this statute.
(2) The revenue accumulated by the Ministry of the subject or department by organizing programs
for the purpose of housing development should be granted to the Ministry through the account
of the Provincial Council.
(3) The revenue of lottery what organized for the purpose of Housing Development could be assumed
by the Ministry.
(4) Donations made by the various sources for housing development programs could be assumed by
the Ministry.
(5) Donation of various charities given for the purpose of Housing Development could be assumed
by the Ministry.
(6) In accordance with this statute the revenue such as rental, lease or other, obtained from the assets
managed by the ministry or the department could be assumed by the Ministry.
(7) The revenue by loan installments or exclusion of assets could be assumed by the ministry by
installment basis or at once.
10. (1) The revenue what obtained from the various sources according to the above Section 9 should be
accumulated in the Provincial Housing Development Account (hereinafter known as the
"Account").
(2) The calendar is the financial year of the Account.
(3) This account shall be subjected to auditing according to the 42nd paragraph of the Provincial
Council Act, of 1987. Also subject to the internal auditor of Uva Provincial Council and internal
auditor of the Ministry.
(4) This account subject to the direct monitoring of the secretary.
11. (1) Establishing community based societies to get assistances with the goal of housing development
shall be legalized.
Power of Minister.
Providing
Provisions.
Housing
Development
Account.
Housing
Development
Society.
F2 - B 80162 (S/E)

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
956
(2) An appropriate constitution for establishing and administrating the above societies mentioned in
Sub-section (1), could be prepared and published in the gazette by the minister as a regulation,
could be implemented.
(3) The societies constitutionally established as above Sub-section (2) shall be registered by the
Commissioner and a certificate shall be issued for conformation.
(4) The contracts could be granted for the projects that oriented on Housing Development out of the
tender procedure to a registered housing development Society and the maximum value of the
agreement time to time subject to the determined limit of the treasury and the secretary to the
financial ministry.
(5) The Commissioner and the Secretary could get assistance from the Housing Development Societies
to achieve the goals of housing development.
12. (1) The beneficiaries that assume land, house, material assistances, loan, financial aid or any other
assistance should be signed an agreement, hereinafter known as "agreement", with the commissioner
and the agreement should consist apt conditions and terms to meet the goals of Housing Development.
(2) The Commissioner should have the rights to recover the dues of land, house, material assistances,
loans and other assistances through the magistrate against beneficiaries that who violate the agreement
mentioned above Sub-section (1).
(3) In advance of forwarding to the magistrate mentioned Sub-section (2), the beneficiaries should be
informed by the Commissioner about the violation of agreement by registered post letter and the
Commissioner shall give minimum 21 days to get down the agreement.
(4) When appeal as above Subsection (2) shall be forwarded to the magistrate 25% should be added as
administration fee to the value of the assets, material of finance which mentioned in the agreemnt.
(5) it is liable to grant the land, house, material or any financial assistance to any other qualified
beneficiary by the Commissioner, which acquired after the judgment of the magistrate of Sub
section (2).
(6) The money which acquired after the magistrate in accord of Sub section (2) above shall be deposited
in the account of housing development.
SECTION III
GENERAL PROVISIONS
13. (1) For the purpose of this statute, any land or any link to the particular land needed be acquired, could
be done under the land acquiring Act, (460th Authority) by the government for Uva Provincial
Council
(2) If any government land needed for the purpose of this statute, the steps should be taken by the
Section 1:2:2 of Appendix II of 13th amendment to the constitution.
(3) When counting the amount of compensation which to be paid for acquisition and other purpose,
they shall be paid according to the provision of land acquisition Act, (460th Authority) and the
expenditure shall be borne by the fund of Provincial Council.
(4) When an appropriate land is recognized for the purpose of this statute, the minister should get the
approval of the board of Minister, Provincial Council and the governor before the acquisition
begun.
(5) The land acquired under Sub-section (1) or (2) should not be used for a purpose except housing
development.
Responsibilities of
Beneficiaries.
Acquisition lands
and paying
compensation.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
957
14. (1) When a land or house granted to any beneficiary under this statute, the value of the asset should
be paid at once or in installment basis to the Provincial Council according to the commissioner's
advise.
(2) When the value of the asset recovered which assigned under Sub-section (1) above, the Commissioner
shall be asisgned the proprietorship through the Notaries public signed deed for the relevant
asset.
(3) The properietorship shall be assigned under the Sub-section (2) above, only after the completion
of building a house.
15. (1) The Minister shall be enacted the appropriate and applicable regulations what necessary to
accomplish the duties and the tasks and achieve the goals of this statute and proper administration.
(2) The regulations what enacted by the Minister should be published in the gazette.
(3) The regulations what published in the Gazette shall come in to operation on such date or the
following date determined.
(4) The regulations what published in the Gazette should be forwarded to the Provincial Council by
the Minister for approval.
(5) If the regulations which submitted to the Provincial Council under the Sub-section (4) above is
not approved, it is liable to made aware the pubilc through the Gazette by the Minister.
(6) Any action done, in between the period mentioned Sub-section (3) and (5) above, under the
particular regulations shall not be deemed as illegitimated.
16. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires :
"Province" means in this statute, a Province known as Uva which formed by the districts called
Badulla and Monaragala.
"Provincial Council" means in this Statute Uva Provincial Council in the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
"Governor" means the Governor of the Uva Province.
"Ministry" means the relevant ministry that deal with the subject of Housing Development of Uva
Provincial Council.
"Minister" means the minister to whom the subject of Housing Development Uva Provincial Council.
"Secretary" means the Secretary to the Minsitry of the subject of Housing Development Uva
Provincial Council.
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of the Housing Development Department of Uva Provincial
Council.
"Department" means the department of Housing development or a unit or a section established on
the goal of accomplishing the Housing Development task, of the Uva Provincial Council.
"Account" means an account opened under the aim of Housing development which runs by the
Ministry of Housing Development.
"Society" means the society that established under this statute, with the participation of public for
the purpose of Housing development.
17.  In event of inconsistency between the text of Sinhala and Tamil or English, the Sinhala meaning and term
shall be influenced.
10–560/2
Exclusion of Assets.
Regulations.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text shall be
reckoned as
incorrect if any
inconsistency.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.