

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
241
241
wxl 1"540 _ 2008 ud¾;= 07 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008’03’07
No. 1,540 – FRIDAY , MARCH 07, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 244
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 248
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th March 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 29th February, 2008.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—(i) Regional Infrastructure Development Levy (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January, 25th, 2008.
(ii) Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January, 25th, 2008.
(iii) Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January, 25th, 2008.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
242
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
243
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety
:–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
244
MINISTR Y OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Post of Assistant Director-Social interactions
APPLICA TIONS  are invited for the post of Assistant Director –
Social interactions of the Ministry of Science and Technology from
suitable persons possessing the following qualifications. The
selected applicant should serve at the Technology Transfer Unit of
this Ministry, and the main task will be to coordinate the transfer
of technology activities between the Ministry and S & T Institutions
and other relevant institutes. In addition, he/she has to undertake
"Need Assessment and impact Assessment" studies before and
after transferring technologies.
Applications should be prepared according to the specimen
given in the advertisement and should be sent under registered
cover addressed to "the Secretary, Ministry of Science Technology,
408, Galle Road, Colombo 03" to be received by him on or before
28.03.2008. Applications received after the prescribed date will be
rejected and the Ministry will not be held responsible for
applications lost in the post. Envelopes containing the applications
should have "Assistant Director Social Interaction" clearly written
or the top left hand corner.
Age Limit.- Should not be below 18 years of age or over 45
years. The upper age limit is not applicable to persons who are
already in the government or local government service.
Education Qualifications.-  Should possess a special degree from
a recognized university with 1st class or 2nd class pass in economics
or polical science or sociology subjects.
Professional & Other Qualifications.- Should possess a through
knowledge of Methodologies that could be adopted to identify the
latest advanced technologies of the world and to transfer these
technologies to the village level to improve the economy's & social
interactions of the rural communities, with experience of at least
more than One year in the relevant field. The relevant qualifications
should be supported by the submission of relevant certificates.
Salary Scale.- Rs. 22,935-10x645-29,385
Method of recruitment.- Suitable candidates will be selected
through a structural interview Priority will be given to officers with
the experience of working in an institution/Unit/division/related to
this subject area, under the Ministry.
Conditions of service :
(i)This is a permanent and pensionable post
(ii)Provision of Sections 10 to 12 of chapter II of the
Establishment Code, are applicable.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Science and Technology.
No. 408, Galle Road,
Colombo 03,
21st February, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
P
OST  OF  ASSISTANT  DIRECT OR  SOCIAL  INTERACTIONS
Science and Technology Transfer Unit – Ministry of Science and
Technology
Part – I (to be filled in by the applicant)
1. Name in Full :--------.
2. Address :--------.
3. Age and date of birth :--------.
4. Marital Status :--------.
5. Educational Qualifications :--------.
Details regarding the first degree :
Name of the degree, Year and Subjects offeredResults
the name of the University
Details of the Postgraduate Degree/Qualifications if any :
Name of the postgraduateSubjects OfferedResults
degree/ diploma, year and
the institution
6. If employed presently :
(i)designation and salary scale :--------.
(ii)Official address :--------.
7. Professional experience in relation to Technology Transfer
and Social Interaction activities :
(i)Details on experience gained by engaging in programmes
and projects related to Social and Economics Interaction
:--------.
(ii)Details on experience in organizing and conducting
projects in technology transfer if any :--------.
(A detail report Should be submitted regarding the above
07. (I) and (II).
Posts - Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
245
8. If employed previously at a Government Department or a
State Corporation the reasons for resignation from service :
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------
9. Have you been convicted of a criminal offensive in a court of
law? Yes/No :--------.
If Yes, give details on the offence and the punishment received :
--------.
10. Other Qualifications :--------.
----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------
I certify that the above information is true and accurate.
------,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :--------.
Certificate of the head of the Department :
The Particulars furnished by Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ............................
................. serving in the .......................................................
Ministry/ Department/Corporation in the post of ............................
...................... are true and accurate according to my knowledge. If
he/ she is selected for this post he/she can/cannot be released from
service in this institution.
------,
Signature of Head of Department.
(Place the Official Seal).
Date :--------.
03-100
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  DEP AR TMENT
Posts of Machine-Minder-Class III-Grade III of Sri Lanka
Printing Service
APPLICA TIONS  are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Posts of Machine-Minders-Class III-Grade III of Sri Lanka Printing
Service. The Application should be prepared as per the Specimen
Application form which appears at the end of this Notification,
and be sent by Registered Post, addressed to "Government Printer,
Government Printing Department, P. O. Box 507, Dr. Danister de
Silva Mawatha, Colombo 08" so as to reach on or before 04.04.2008.
The version "Post of Machine-Minder" should be marked at the
top left hand corner of the envelope bearing the Application.
Note : (a) The furnished Application or related documents
should be sent addressed only to the Government
Printer and not to the name of any officer,
individually.
(b) Complaints made, regarding the loss or delay in
the course of sending the application by post, will
not be considered.
(c) Applicants who are presently employed in
Government Departments or Corporations should
send their Applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments/Corporations.
2. Salary Scale.— The consolidated monthly salary for this
post will be Rs. 14,910 – 10x170–11x180–6x240–14x320 —
Rs. 24,510.
3. Age Limit.— Applicants should not be above 45 years of age.
on 04.04.2008 (The upper age limit is not applicable for those who
are presently in public service)
4. Educational & Other Qualifications (Trained Applicants) :
Should possess minimum of 10 years experience as Machine-
Minder;
or
Should have successfully completed a Three year course in
Printing Trade, conducted by Technical College-Colombo
and possess the relevant Certificate, coupled with 5 years
experience as a Machine-Minder.
5. Conditions of Appointment.— The Post is permanent and
pensionable. The selected applicant should contribute for the
Widow's & Orphan's Fund.
6. General  Conditions applicable.— Section 12.1 and Sections
12.6 to 12.12 in Chapter 11 of Establishment Code will be applicable.
7. Mode of Recruitment.— The Applicants will be subjected to
an Interview as well as Practical Test which will be conducted by a
well-organised Selection Board. Eventually, those applicants who
will have obtained more qualifications will be recruited according to
the vacancies.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
246
8. The attention of applicants is directed to the 'General
Conditions applicable to Appointments in Public Services' which
appears at the beginning of Part I : Section (IIA) of this Gazette.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Department,
P. O. Box 507,
No. 118, Dr. Danister de Silva Mawatha,
Colombo -8
19th February, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
G
OVERNMENT  PRINTING  DEPAR TMENT
POST OF MACHINE-MINDER CLASS III-GRADE III OF SRI
LANKA PRINTING SERVICE
1. (a) Name in full :-----------------------------.
(b) Name with  initials:----------------------------.
2. (a) Postal Address:-----------------------------.
(b) Permanent Address:----------------------------.
3. District :---------------------------.
4. (a) Date of Birth:--------------------------.
Y ear:-----------, Month:-----------, Date :--------------.
(b) Age as at 04.04.2008:
--------------Years -----------------Months --------------
Days.
5. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka? :---------------------------.
6. Educational & Other Qualifications:--------------------------.
7. Vocational Qualification :----------------------.
(Originals of Certificates should be produced at the Interview)
8. Present Occupation:-----------------------.
(with name and address of Employer)
9. Details of Experience in this field:
Post Period of Service
From To
--------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------
10. Have  yor  ever  been  convicted of a punishable offence by
any court of law?:-----------------------------.
I hereby declare that the foregoing particulars given by me are
true and correct. I am aware that if any particular contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect I will be liable to be disqualified
before selection and to dismissal without any compensation if the
inaccuracy is detected after the Appointment.
------------------,
Signature of Applicant.
Date:--------------.
Certificate of Head of Department/Corporation
(If the Applicant is employed in a Government Department or
Corporation the Application should be forwarded through the
Head of respective Department or Corporation)
I hereby certify that Mr.---------------------- is employed in this
Department/Corporation; His works and conduct are satisfactory
and he possess the required qualifications to this post. I state that
he can be/cannot be released from present service, if selected to the
post applied.
--------------------------------,
Signature of Head of Department/Corporation
Authorised Officer.
Name:----------------------,
Designation:----------------------.
Address:----------------------.
Date :-----------------------.
03-115
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths - Gampaha District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and Female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
247
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as
District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 30th April, 2008.
E. N. GUNESEGARA ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
14th February, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for Address to which applications,
Secretariat Division which applications are called should be sent
01 Gampaha Wattala Post of Registrar of marriages (General) District Secretary/Addl.
in Aluth Kuru Korale South  and Registrar General, District
 Births and Deaths in Mattumagala area Secretariat,  Gampaha
02 Gampaha Minuwangoda Post of Registrar of marriages (General)
in Aluth Kuru Korale North  and - do -
 Births and Deaths in Udugampola Division
03 Gampaha Ja- Ela Post of Registrar of marriages (General)
in Aluth Kuru Korale  and  Births and - do -
Deaths in Dandugama Division
04 Gampaha Mahara Post of Registrar of marriages (General)
in Siyane Korale west Division and - do -
 Births and Deaths in Dalupitiya Division
05 Gampaha Meerigama Post of Registrar of marriages (General)
in Hapitigama Korale South  and - do -
 Births and Deaths in Yatigaha South Division
06 Gampaha Negombo Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths
in Negombo Town (Hospital) Division - do -
07 Gampaha Ja-Ela Post of Registrar of marriages (General)
in Aluthkuru Korale South and - do -
 Births and Deaths in Kaudana Division
08 Gampaha Biyagama Post of Additional Registrar of
marriages (General) in Meegahawatta - do -
 area in Siyane Korale West  Division
09 Gampaha Attanagalla Post of Additional Registrar of
marriages (General) in Bemmulla and Magalegoda - do -
 area in Siyane Korale West  Division

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
248
10 Gampaha Gampaha Post of Additional Registrar of  Marriages District Secretary/ Additional Registrar
 (General) in Aluthgama, Bogamuwa General/District Secretariat,
 area in Siyane Korale West  Division Gampaha
11 Gampaha Mahara Post of Registrar of  marriages (General)
 in Siyane Korale  West Division - do -
and Births and Deaths in Mahara Division
03-139
District Divisional Post and Division for Address to which applications,
Secretariat Division which applications are called should be sent
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION AND THE WRITTEN TEST ON COMPUTER SKILLS
FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSIST ANTS' SER VICE - 2007 (I)
IT is hereby notified that an efficiency bar examination and a written test on computer skills for officers in class III of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations as per the provisions of the relevant
approved service minutes in the month of July 2008.
2.0 Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished in Section Nos. 5 & 9 of the Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute published in the Government Gazette No. 1372/23 of 24.12.2004. Any officer who had been appointed to a post in the
Combined Services before 01.01.2004 should have been confirmed in his/her post as per the relevant service minute after fulfilling the
requisites relevant to that service. Provisions of Public Management Assistants' Service Minute will apply totally for an officer who has
assumed duties in  a post after 01.01.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle,
Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The
relevant towns and town numbers are given below.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
A centre without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled.
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner - General of Examinations and the candidates will be bound by
the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Candidates will be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
249
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post through
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department of Examination, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 07th April 2008. The name of the examination should be
indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope of the application. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates.- Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i)National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registrations of Persons.
(ii)A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion
of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that para. Nos. 1.0 to 3.0 appear on
the first page. The application could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidates' own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send more than one application or
photocopies.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 for the whole examination and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 for a single subject should be affixed for subsequent sittings. The
stamps should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date. Under any circumstances, the fees will not be refunded
or transferred in respect of any other examination.
8.0 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has
not received his/her admission card at least seven days before the day of examination, he/she should, without delay, inform the Commissioner-
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatte, Battaramulla (Telegraphic
Address "Exams" Battaramulla) about the non-receipt of admission card along with the following information.
(i)Name of the examination ;
(ii)Full name of the candidate ;
(iii)Full postal address ;
(iv)Post office, registration number and the date of dispatch.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0 The officers may sit for this examination either in the language medium in which they sat for the entry examinations to the
service or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the service without a competitive examination may sit for the
examination in their medium of education or in one of the official languages.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different occasions at their discretion. However they should score at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
12.0 Commissioner-General of Examination will release the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Service and names of the successful candidates will be published in the G azette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
13.0 Examination Procedure.- Candidates should sit for a written examination which will consist of the following subjects.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
(i)Office system 01 100 01 hr.
(ii)Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hr.
(iii)Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
250
13.1 Office Systems.- Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in G overnment offices and the ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. Further, the candidates’ ability of understanding official correspondence,
ability of indicating observations/ideas precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting letters as per the instructions
given will be tested.
Part I
Consists of questions that require short answers. Should provide answers on the paper itself. Should answer all
the questions. (25 marks.)
Part II
A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks).
13.2 Accounting Systems.- Candidates’ knowledge in an understanding of basic accounting procedure adopted in
G overnment offices and the purposes of books and records on financial control will be tested.
Part I
Consists of questions that require short answers. Should provide answers on the paper itself. Should answer all
the questions. (25 marks.)
Part II
A question paper of structured essay type. Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75 marks.)
13.3 T est on Computer Skills.- Objective of this test is to verify the candidate’s skills on the following :
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
File Management
W ord Processing
Basic skills, Screen Familiarization, Editing text
Aligning Text, Fonts and Attributes, Indenting
Paragraphs, change of Line Spacing
Tab settings, Finding and replacing text, Spelling and Grammar Thesaurus
W orking with columns, Page setup
Printing documents, Creating Tables, Sorting text
File Management
Mail Merging
W orking with macros
Spreadsheets
Basic skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating Charts
Printing
@ Function
W orking with Macros, File Management
Databases
Introduction, Basic skills
Databases-Creation and application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms, Dialog and message boxess
Queries
Sorting
Reports
W orking with macros

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
251
Presentations/Graphics
Basic skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting images, clip art and graphs
Slide Transition and effects, Animations
Using Presentation tools, Preparing Masters, Printing slides and notes
Internet
Introduction to Internet, World Wide Web, How to navigate Practical Internet.
E-mail
Introduction, Basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail, responding to mails
W orking with attachments, Creating and using nick names
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts
Part I
Consist of 40 questions of MCQ type that require short answers. Duration 45 minutes (40 marks)
Part II
05 semi structured questions. Duration 45 minutes. (60 marks.)
Note.- As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants’ Service Minute, officers who possess computer driving
licenses awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate
issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and Vocational Education Commission, which are given in
Appendix I, will be exempted from the written test on computer skills.
14. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
A. N
OBER T,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
19th February, 2008.
APPENDIX I
The document of computer certificates issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and Vocational Education Commission :
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1. National Apprentice and Sri Jayawardanapura Road, Computer Graphic Designer
Industrial Training Authority W elikada,
Rajagiriya
2. Apprentice Training Institute No. 85, Galle Road, Computer Application Assistant
Katubedda,
Moratuwa
3. National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Computer Application Assistant
Maharagama
4. District Vocational Training Institute Galigamuwa Town, Computer Application Assistant
Ballapana

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
252
5. National Vocational Training InstituteNo. 354, Elvitigala Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Narahenpita
6. District Vocational Training Centre Saragama, Computer Application Assistant
Kurunegala
7. National Vocational Training InstituteNo. 100, Kandawala Road, Computer Application Assistant
Ratmalana
8. National Youth Services Councils No. 65, High Level Road, Computer Hardware Technician
Maharagama
9. Vocational Training Centre, Pallidora Road, Kawdana, Computer Application Assistant
National Youth Services Council CentreDehiwala
10. National Apprentice and Industrial Negombo Road, Computer Application Assistant
Training Authority Kurunegala
11. Telecommunication and Computer Beruwala Computer Hardware Technician
Training Centre
12. North Central Office (NAITA) No. 525, Maithiripala Computer Application Assistant
Senanayake Mawatha,
Ratnayakepura,
Anuradhapura
13. Pannipitiya Rural Vocational W askaduwa, Desktop Publishing
Training Centre Panapitiya
14. Rural Vocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa Computer Application Assistant
15. Y oun Niketanaya, Anuradhapura Computer Application Assistant
National Youth Services Council
16. Computer Education Centre Sri Dharmarama Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Colombo 06
17. Sri Lanka Nippon Rural Vocational Mahindarama Road, Computer Application Assistant
Training Centre Ethul Kotte,
Kotte
18. Lalith Athulathmudali Vocational Station R oad, Computer Hardware Technician
Training Centre Ratmalana
19. Computer Education Centre Divisional Secretariat Office, Computer Application Assistant
Anguruwathota,
Madurawela
20. Vocational Training Centre Pallidora Road, Kawdana, Computer Graphic Designer
National Youth Services Council CentreDehiwala
21. Technical College W erellawatta, Yakkala, Computer Application Assistant
Gampaha
22. Institute of Professional 178A, Colombo Road, Computer Application Assistant
Computer Studies Ratnapura
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
253
23. Institute of Professional 178A, Colombo Road, Computer Graphic Designer
Computer Studies Ratnapura
24. Technology and Computer No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Computer Graphic Designer
Training Institute Mawatha,
Maradana,
Colombo 10
25. Technology and Computer No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Computer Applications Assistant
Training Institute Mawatha,
Maradana,
Colombo 10
26. Cholankanda Youth Training Udahenthanna, Computer Applications Assistant
Centre S. P. O. 20506,
V ia Gampola
27. Institute of Professional 178A, Colombo Road, Computer Hardware Technician
Computer Studies Ratnapura
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use Only)
Efficiency Bar Examination and the Written Test on Computer
Skills for Officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service - 2007 (I)
Town Town
No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit
the examination as per gazette notification)
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala-2, Tamil-3, English-4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––.
(In block capitals)
eg : SILVA  A. B
1.2 Name in Full :––––––.
(In block capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0
2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution :––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
254
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :––––––.
(In block capitals)
3.0
3.1 Sex : Female – 1, Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth : Year Month Date
3.3 N. I. C. No. :
4.0 Present Post -
4.1 Post :––––––.
4.2 Appointment Letter Number :––––––.
5.0 Subject/s you are offering now :
(Refer para no. 13.0 of the gazette notification)
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
01
02
03
6.0
6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––––.
6.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :––––––.
6.3 Stamp Cage :
Please affix Stamps to the value of Rs. 90 for whole
examination and Rs. 50 for only one subject
N.B.- Candidates should affix stamps to the correct value and cancel them by placing his/ her signature and date on them.
Stamps should not overlap when affixed.
I declare that the information furnished above are correct and that I am eligible sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. The stamps affixed are valid and are to the value of Rs. ................................. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations
of this examination.
––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––.
Note.- Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her respective Department Head or an officer assigned to
sign on behalf of Department Head.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
255
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................................ who is an employee of my work station and who is personally known
to me placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................................ .
––––––,
Signature and official stamps of the
person attesting.
Name :----.
Designation :----.
Address :----.
Date :----.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that,
(i)The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii)The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination previously ;
(iii)The officer has appeared for the examination previously and *he/she has affixed stamps to the correct value ;
(iv)He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :––––––.
Designation :––––––.
Address :––––––.
Date :––––––.
3-131
DEP ATMENT OF PRISONS
Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment to the
Post of Prison Guard – 2008
A PPLICA TIONS  are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka, both males and
females with the qualifications stipulated hereunder, for the posts
of Prison Guard/Female Prison Guards, now vacant in the
Department of Prisons.
02. Persons obtaining highest marks on the results of a written
examination to be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations
and the results of a structured interview, will be recruited.
(Candidates will be called for the interview on the ratio of 1:2 of the
existing vacancies)
03. The appointing authority shall have the power not to fill
any number of vacancies or all vacancies. 95% of the existing
vacancies will be filled with outside candidates and 5% will be
recruited by promoting internal candidates. 82(Eighty two) female
guards will be recruited.
04. The salary scale applicable to the post of Prison Guard,
according to the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) will
be Rs. 14,280- 7 x 145 – 10 x 180 – 17 x 240 – 21,175 per month.
The appointees are required to pass the first efficiency bar
examination within three years from the date of appointment to the
post, and pass the second efficiency bar examination within six
years from the date of appointment. Promotion to the post of
Prisons Overseer should be obtained before proceeding the salary point
of Rs. 15,475.
05. This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans
Pension scheme.
06. Qualifications:
* Educational .— Should have passed the General Certificate
of Education Ordinary Level Examination in not more
than two sittings, in 06 subjects including Sinhala/Tamil
and Mathematics with two credit passes for any two
subjects or any other equivalent examination (Not less
than five subjects should be passed in one sitting).

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
256
* Professional and other qualifications .—
1. Should be citizens of Sri Lanka
2. Should not be less than 18 years or not more than
30 years as at the last date for the receipt of
application (The maximum age limit will not apply
to persons already in public service/provincial
public service.) The persons recruited to the post
of Prison Guard should stay for a minimum period
of five years in bachelors' quarters provided by
the Department of Prisons.
3. The applicant should be of good Character.
Conviction by any court of law for any offence
relating to immoral character is a total
disqualification for appointment to this post).
4. Minimum height - 5ft. 4 in. (for males)
Minimum height - 5ft. 2in (for females)
5. Male candidates should have a chest measurement
of 32 inches deflated.
07. Scheme of Examination.— The Examination will consist of
two question papers.
Marks Time
* Intelligence Test 100 01hour
* General knowledge 100 01hour
Should be physically sound (a residential training similar
to that for the military service will be mandatory for the
selected officers)
Syllabus:
* Intelligence Test — Time allowed - 01hour - 100
marks
The paper will consist of questions designed to
test the candidate's ability in logical thinking and
analytical reasoning. This paper will consist of
multiple choice questions.
* General Knowledge — Time allowed - 01 hour -
100 marks
A General paper designed to test the knowledge of
the candidate on matters relating to human rights
and fundamental rights, Information Technology,
the political, social, cultural and economic
environment of Sri Lanka including the environment
where the candidate is resident current affairs of
national and international importance and scientific
and technical developments. This question paper
consist of multiple choice questions.
Scheme of Selection .— In order to be qualified in one subject
the candidates are required to obtain 40 marks or above. Candidates
who score highest marks at this Examination will be called to a
structural interview. (The written examination will be conducted
only in Sinhala, Tamil and English media) Candidates who obtain
highest marks at the written Examination and the structural interview
will be selected for appointment.
The results of this Examination will be issued to each candidate
by the Commissioner General of Examinations after the conclution
of the structural interview. A number equal to twice the number of
existing vacancies will be called for the interview from among the
candidates who have obtained highest marks at the written
Examination. Accordingly the Commissioner General of
Examinations is required to furnish to the Commissioner General of
Prisons, for the purpose of interview too separate schedules
prepared indicating in alphabetical order the names of candidates
who obtained highest marks at the Examination and are qualified to
be called for the interview, without including the marks they have
obtained at the Examinaiton.
08. Penalty for furnishing false information.— The application
should be filled very carefully indicating accurate information. Where
any candidate is found to be disqualified in tems of the reules and
regualtions of  this Examination his/her candidature will be cancelled
at any time before the Examination, or while the examination is
being conducted or after the Examination. If any information
furnished by any candidate is found to be false at any stage, he/she
is liable to be dismissed from public service.
09. Examination Fee.— The fee for the examination will be
Rs. 300 which may be paid at any Divisional Secretariat or District
Secretariat,(to be credited to Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examinations) The receipt issued
therefor should be pasted firmly to the relevant cage of the
application form. (A photocopy of the the receipt should be retained
for future reference.) The examination fee will not be refunded
under any circumstances and money orders and stamps will not be
accepted.
10. Application forms.— Applications should be prepared on
A4 size Paper (21x29cm the usual half sheet)
(a) Cages 01 to 03 should be on the first page and
(b) Cages 04 onwards should be on the other pages
All applications, not conforming to the specimen, in respect
which the examination fee has not be paid by the due date, and
which are incomplete will be rejected without any notice. Any
liability resulting from not completing applications should be borne
by the candidates themselves.
10.1 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will allow
all candidates who have paid the prescribed examination
fee, and have submitted their applications on or before
the stipulated date to sit for the competitive examination
on the presumption that only the persons who are
qualified in terms of the Gazette Notification have applied.
The issue of an admission card to sit for the competitive

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
257
examination shall not be treated as acceptance that a
candidate has fulfilled the necessary qualifications for
this post. When the candidates called for interview are
found to be ineligble at the time of checking their
qualifications their candidatre will be cancelled.
10.2 The words "Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the Post of Prison Guards 2008" should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application clearly.
10.3 Candidates identity should be attested by a Principal of a
Government School, a Justice of the Peace, Commissioner
for Oaths, Notary Public, a commissioned officer in the
Armed Forces, an officer holding a Gazetted Post in the
Police Service or a Officer holding a permanent post in
Government with an annual salary is Rs. 124,080 or above,
staff officer with an annual increment of Rs. 1560 or
above or in case of an officer in public/provincial public
service by the head of the relevant institution.
10.4 The completed applications should be sent under
registered cover to the address given below on or before
08.04.2008
Commissioner General of Examinaitons,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
11. Sitting for the Examination.— The admission cards will be
issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations to be received
at least seven days before the date of examination. A notice thereon
will be published in the newspapers. The candidates are advised to
be on the look out for such notice. Candidates who do not receive
admission cards by that time should make inquiries in that regard
from the Commissioner General of Examinations with the following
particulars.
(i)Name of the Examination
(ii)Selected town
(iii)Date of posting of the application, its registration number
and the name of Post Office.
(iv)The number and the date of the receipt for payment and
the office of payment.
12. Candates are required to produce to the Supervisor anyone
of the following documents in order to prove their identity.
(i)Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(ii)A valid Passport.
13. Date of Examination will be notified in due course by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
14. Any matter not provided for here will be determined by the
Commissioner General of Prisons. All candidates are bound to act
in conformity with the general rules and regulations setout in this
Gazette.
V
AJIRA  WIJAYAGUNA W ARDANE ,
R. A. S. P., U.A.S.P., L.S.M.C.
Major General,
Commissioner General of Prisons,
Prison Headquarters,
Colombo 09.
25th day of 2008,
Prison Headquarters,
No. 156, Baseline Road,
Colombo 09.
SPECIMEN  APPLICA TION
Open Competitive Examination for Recuirtment to the Posts of
Prison Guard - 2008
(Clearly indicate the correct code/
number in the given cage)
(for office use only)
Medium of Examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(write the relevant letter in the cage)
* Indicate the town in which the applicant wishes to sit for the
examination as per the Gazette Notification. (See Schedule I for
towns in which examination centres will be established and their
numbers.)
Town Town Number
1.
2.
01. Name
i. Name with initials :------------------------------.
(in English Block capitals)
Ex. Perera, A. B. C.
ii.Name in Full :-----------------------------------------.
(in English block capitals)
iii.Name in full :-----------------------------,
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
iv. National Identity Card Number :

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
258
02. i. Permanent Address :------------------------------.
(in English Block letters)
ii.Permanent Address :----------------------------.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
iii.Address to which the admission card should be sent
(in English Block letters)---------------------------.
03. i. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant digit in the cage)
ii.Date of Birth:
Year Month Date
iii.Age as at the closing date of applications:
Years  Months Days
iv. Whether married or single
Married - 1
Single - 2
(Indicate the relevant digit in the cage)
04. i. Since when the candidate is sident in the relevant
district?--------------------.
ii.Assistant Government Agent’s/Divisional Secretary’s
Division---------------------.
iii.Police Division:------------------------.
iv. Height: ---------------ft. -------------inches
v. Chest :----------------------inches
05. Educational Qualifications:
Particulars of the G. C. E.(O/L) examination:
i. Y ear and Month of the Examination:------------------.
ii.Index Number:---------------------.
iii.Results of the Examination:--------------------.
Subject  Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
06. Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law for any
offence? (if yes give particulars) :----------------------------.
Yes No
(Mark       in the relevant cage)
07. Particulars of the receipt for payment of examination fees :
i. Office at which examination fee was paid:-------------
ii.Number and date of receipt :----------------------.
iii.Amount paid:------------------------------.
Receipt to be firmly pasted here
08. Certificate of the Applicant :
a. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct to the best of
my knowledge. I hereby agree to bear any loss resulting
from failure to fill any sections and/or, not correctly
filling any section and/or incorrectly filling any section
of this application. Further I declare that all sections
of this application have been correctly filled.
b. I am also aware that I am liable to be disqualified
before selection and to be dismissed after the
appointment if this declaration is proved to be
incorrect.
c. I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination.
d. I will not subsequently alter any particulars contained
herein.
----------------------,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :------------------.
09. Attestation of the applicant’s signature.
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ------
--------------who is submitting this application is personally
known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my
presence on------------------.
-----------------------,
Signature of the Attester.
Date:-------------.
Full Name of the Attestor :--------------------.
Designation:-----------------------,
Address:----------------------.
(Official seal should be affixed)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
259
SCHEDULE I
Towns where Examination Centres will be established
District Town Town No.
01. Colombo Kotahena 01
Maradana 02
Borella 03
Cinnamon Garden 04
Bambalapitiya 05
Havelock Town 06
Nugegoda 07
Moratuwa 08
Piliyandala 09
Homagama 10
Maharagama 11
Hanwella 12
A vissawella 13
02. Gampaha Negombo 14
Minuwangoda 15
Divulapitiya 16
Veyangoda 17
Gampaha 18
Ja-ela 19
W attala 20
Kelaniya 21
Dompe 22
03. Kalutara Horana 23
Panadura 24
Kalutara 25
Matugama 26
Aluthgama 27
04. Matale Matale 28
Galewela 29
Naula 30
Laggala-Pallegama 31
05. Kandy Kandy 32
Katugastota 33
Theldeniya 34
W attegama 35
Nugawela 36
Galagedara 37
Gampola 38
06. Nuwara Eliya Hedunuwewa  39
Nuwara Eliya  40
W atumulla 41
Hatton 42
Ginigathhena 43
07. Galle Ambalangoda 44
Galle 45
Baddegama 46
08. Matara W eligama 47
Matara 48
Kamburupitiya 49
Hakmana 50
Deiyandara 51
Dickwella 52
Akuressa 53
Kotabola 54
09. Hambantota Beliatta 55
W alasmulla 56
W eeraketeiya 57
Tangalle 58
Ambalantota 59
Hambantota 60
Tissamaharama 61
10. Jaffna Chavakachcheri 62
Jaffna 63
Thelippallei 64
Point Pedro 65
11. Mannar Mannar 66
Murukkan 67
12. Mullativu Mullativu 68
13. Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
14. Trincomalee Kantale 70
Trincomalee 71
Muttur 72
Padavi Parakramapura 73
Kinniya 74
15. Batticaloa Batticaloa 75
Eravur 76
Kathankudi 77
16. Ampara Ampara 78
Serankada 79
Kalmunei 80
Akkaraipattu 81
Sammanthurei 82
17. Puttalam W ennappuwa 83
Madampe 84
Chilaw 85
Puttalam 86
18. Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
Bingiriya 88
Narammala 89
Polgahawela 90
Kurunegala 91
Ibbagamuwa 92
Dodamgaslanda 93
Morathiha 94
Nikaweratiya 95
Maho 96
District Town Town No.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
260
19. Anuradhapura Medawachchi 97
Kekirawa 98
Anuradhapura 99
Galenbindunuwewa 100
Kahatagasdigiliya 101
20. Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
Hingurakgoda 103
21. Badulla Bandarawela 104
W elimada 105
Badulla 106
Passara 107
Mahiyangana 108
Girandurukotte 109
Hasalaka 110
District Town Town No. District Town Town No.
22. Monaragala Bibile 111
Monaragala 112
W ellawaya 113
23. Kegalle Kegalle 114
Rambukkana 115
Mawanella 116
Ruwanwella 117
24. Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
Ratnapura 119
Pelmadulla 120
Balangoda 121
Kalawana 122
Embilipitiya 123
25. Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
Pallai 125
03-281

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
261
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full pay-
ments to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be
accompanied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted
in payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of
the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8 , as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05. who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’03’07
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.03.2008
262
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue, Kirulapone,
Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2008
MARCH 07.03.2008 Friday — 22.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
14.03.2008 Friday –– 29.02.2008 Friday 12 noon
19.03.2008 Wednesday –– 07.03.2008 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2008 Friday –– 14.03.2008 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 04.04.2008 Friday — 19.03.2008 Wednesday 12 noon
11.04.2008 Friday –– 28.03.2008 Friday 12 noon
18.04.2008 Friday –– 04.04.2008 Friday 12 noon
25.04.2008 Friday –– 11.04.2008 Friday 12 noon
MAY 02.05.2008 Friday — 18.04.2008 Friday 12 noon
09.05.2008 Friday –– 25.04.2008 Friday 12 noon
16.05.2008 Friday –– 02.05.2008 Friday 12 noon
23.05.2008 Friday –– 09.05.2008 Friday 12 noon
30.05.2008 Friday –– 16.05.2008 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.