

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1904$01 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks i÷od - 2015'03'02
No.  1904/01 -  MONDAY,  MARCH  02,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
PG 2384 —  (2017/05)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette extraordinary will be published seperately.
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, No. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
"Institute"), the Institute has adopted the Changes to Sri Lanka Auditing Standards with effect from 01 January 2015
published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard
shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand
Fifteen. Earlier application is permitted.
Further, hereby the document on the Gazette Notification on "Audit Report: As per SLAuS 700 -2014 with changes to
Independent Auditor’s Report" under the same Extra Ordinary Gazette Number would be withdrawn.
By Order of the Council,
ARUNA  ALWIS,
Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
27th February, 2015
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
CHANGES TO SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARDS WITH EFFECT FROM 01 
JANUARY 2015 
 
Glossary of Terms 
 
SRI LANKA STANDARD ON QUALITY CONTROL (SLSQC) 
 
Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and 
Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements  
 
AUDITS OF HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
 
200-299 GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in  
               Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards   
SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements   
SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements   
SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation   
SLAuS 240, The Auditor's Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements  
SLAuS 250, Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements   
SLAuS 260, Communication with Those Charged with Governance   
SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance  
   and Management  
 
300-499 RISK ASSESSMENT AND RESPONSE TO ASSESSED RISKS   
SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements    
SLAuS 315, Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through          
   Understanding the Entity and Its Environment   
SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit   
SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks   
SLAuS 402, Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization   
SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit   
   
500-599 AUDIT EVIDENCE   
SLAuS 500, Audit Evidence   
 SLAuS 501, Audit Evidence—Specific Considerations for Selected Items   
SLAuS 505, External Confirmations   
SLAuS 510, Initial Audit Engagements—Opening Balances   

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
SLAuS 520, Analytical Procedures   
SLAuS 530, Audit Sampling   
SLAuS 540, Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and  
  Related Disclosures   
SLAuS 550, Related Parties   
SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events   
SLAuS 570, Going Concern   
SLAuS 580, Written Representations   
 
600-699 USING WORK OF OTHERS  
SLAuS 600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work  
   of  Component Auditors)   
SLAuS 610, Using the Work of Internal Auditors  
 
700-799 AUDIT CONCLUSIONS AND REPORTING  
SLAuS 700, Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements   
SLAuS 705, Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s  Report   
SLAuS 706, Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s 
  Report   
SLAuS 710, Comparative Information—Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements  
SLAuS 720, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information in Documents Containing  
  Audited  Financial Statements 
 
800-899 SPECIALIZED AREAS 
SLAuS 800, Special Considerations—Audits of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance  
   with  Special Purpose Frameworks   
SLAuS 805, Special Considerations—Audits of Single Financial Statements and Specific   
    Elements, Accounts or Items of a Financial Statement   
SLAuS 810, Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements    
 
 
  
SRI LANKA AUDITING PRACTICE NOTES 
SLAPN 1000, Special Considerations in Auditing Financial Instruments   
 
REVISED STANDARDS NOT YET EFFECTIVE 
SLAuS 315  (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through  
  Understanding the Entity and Its Environment   
SLAuS 610  (Revised), Using the Work of Internal Auditors   

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
Accounting 
records 
The records of initial accounting entries and supporting records, such as checks and records of 
electronic fund transfers; invoices; contracts; the general and subsidiary ledgers, journal entries 
and other adjustments to the financial statements that are not reflected in formal journal entries; 
and records such as work sheets and spreadsheets supporting cost allocations, computations, 
reconciliations and disclosures. 
 
Applicable 
criteria (in the 
context of 
SLSAE 34103 
The criteria used by the entity to quantify and report its emissions in the GHG statement.  
 
Applicable criteria (in the context of SLSAE 34204)—The criteria used by the responsible party 
when compiling the pro forma financial information. Criteria may be established by an 
authorized or recognized standard -setting organization or by law or regulation. Where 
established criteria do not exist, they will be developed by the responsible party.  
 
Applicable 
financial 
reporting 
framework 
The financial reporting framework adopted by management a nd, where appropriate, those 
charged with governance in the preparation of the financial statements that is acceptable in 
view of the nature of the entity and the objective of the financial statements, or that is required 
by law or regulation . In the conte xt of SLSRS 4410 (Revised), 5 reference is to the financial 
information, rather than to the financial statements. 
 
Assertions Representations by management, explicit or otherwise, that are embodied in the financial 
statements, as used by the auditor to consider the different types of potential misstatements that 
may occur. In the context of SLSAE 3410, assertions are defined as representations by the 
entity, explicit or otherwise, that are embodied in the GHG statement, as used by the 
practitioner to consider the different types of potential misstatements that may occur.  
 
Assess Analyze identified risks of material misstatement to conclude on their significance. “Assess,” 
by convention, is used only in relation to risk. (also see Evaluate)  
 
Base year A specific year or an average over multiple years against which an entity’s emissions are 
compared over time.  
 
Cap and trade A system that sets overall emissions limits, allocates emissions allowances to participants, and 
allows them to trade allowances and emission credits with each other.  
 
Comparative 
information 
The amounts and disclosures i ncluded in the financial statements in respect of one or more 
prior periods in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. In the context 
of SLSAE 3410, comparative information is defined as the amounts and disclosures included 
in the GHG statement in respect of one or more prior periods. 
 
Compilation 
engagement 
An engagement in which a practitioner applies accounting and financial reporting expertise to 
assist management in the preparation and presentation of financial information of an entity in 
accordance with an applicable financial reporting framework, and re ports as required by this 
SLSRS. Throughout SLSRS 4410 (Revised), the words “compile”, “compiling” and 
“compiled” are used in this context.  
 
Emissions The GHGs that, during the relevant period, have been emitted to the atmosphere or would have 
been emitted to the atmosphere had they not been captured and channeled to a sink. Emissions 
can be categorized as:  
                                                           
3  SLSAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements 
4  SLSAE 3420, Assurance Engagements to Report on the Compilation of Pro Forma Financial Information Included in a Prospectus 
5  SLSRS 4410 (Revised), Compilation Engagements 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
 Direct emissions (also known as Scope 1 emissions), which are emissions from sources that 
are owned or controlled by the entity.  
 
 Indirect emissions, which are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the entity, 
but which occur at sources that are owned or controlled by another entity. Indirect emissions 
can be further categorized as:  
 
○  Scope 2 emissions, which are e missions associated with energy that is transferred to 
and consumed by the entity.  
 
○  Scope 3 emissions, which are all other indirect emissions 
 
Emissions 
deduction 
Any item included in the entity’s GHG statement that is deducted from the total reported 
emissions, but which is not a removal; it commonly includes purchased offsets, but can also 
include a variety of other instruments or mechanisms such as performance cr edits and 
allowances that are recognized by a regulatory or other scheme of which the entity is a part.  
 
Emissions 
factor 
A mathematical factor or ratio for converting the measure of an activity (for example, liters of 
fuel consumed, kilometers travelled, the number of animals in husbandry, or tonnes of product 
produced) into an estimate of the quantity of GHGs associated with that activity.  
 
Emissions 
trading scheme 
A market-based approach used to control greenhouse gases by providing economic incentiv es 
for achieving reductions in the emissions of such gases. 
Entity (in the 
context of 
SLSAE 3410) 
The legal entity, economic entity, or the identifiable portion of a legal or economic entity (for 
example, a single factory or other form of facility, such as a land fill site), or combination of 
legal or other entities or portions of those entities (for e xample, a joint venture) to which the 
emissions in the GHG statement relate.  
 
Environmental 
matters 
[Deleted] 
 
GHG statement A statement setting out constituent elements and quantifying an entity’s GHG emissions for a 
period (sometimes known as an emiss ions inventory) and, where applicable, comparative 
information and explanatory notes including a summary of significant quantification and 
reporting policies. An entity’s GHG statement may also include a categorized listing of 
removals or emissions deducti ons. Where the engagement does not cover the entire GHG 
statement, the term “GHG statement” is to be read as that portion that is covered by the 
engagement. The GHG statement is the “subject matter information” of the engagement. 15  
 
Greenhouse 
gases (GHGs) 
Carbon dioxide (CO2) and any other gases required by the applicable criteria to be included in 
the GHG statement, such as: methane; nitrous oxide; sulfur hexafluoride; hydrofluorocarbons; 
perfluorocarbons; and chlorofluorocarbons. Gases other than c arbon dioxide are often 
expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2-e).  
 
Internal audit 
function 
A function of an entity that performs assurance and consulting activities designed to evaluate 
and improve the effectiveness of the entity’s governance, risk management and internal control 
processes.  
 
Sri Lanka 
Accounting 
Standards 
The Sri Lanka Accounting Standards adopted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri 
Lanka. 
misstatement In the context of SLSRS 4410 (Revised), a misstatement is defined as a difference between the 
amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure of a reported item  in the financial 
information, and the amount, classification, presentation, or disclosure that is required for the 
                                                           
15  Assurance Framework, paragraph 8 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
item to be in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Misstatements can 
arise from error or fraud.  
 
Where the financial information is prepared in accordance with a fair presentation framework, 
misstatements also include those adjustments of amounts, classifications, presentation, or 
disclosures that, in the practitioner’s judgment, are necessary for the financial  information to 
be presented fairly, in all material respects, or to give a true and fair view  
 
Organizational 
boundary 
The boundary that determines which operations to include in the entity’s GHG statement.  
 
 
Performance 
materiality 
The amount or amounts set by the auditor at less than materiality for the financial statements 
as a whole to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of 
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a 
whole. If applicable, performance materiality also refers to the amount or amounts set by the 
auditor at less than the materiality level or levels for particular classes of transactions, account 
balances or disclosures. In the context of SLSAE 3410, performance materiality is defined as 
the amount or amounts set by the practitioner at less than materiality for the GHG statement to 
reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and 
undetected mis statements exceeds materiality for the GHG statement. If applicable, 
performance materiality also refers to the amount or amounts set by the practitioner at less than 
the materiality level or levels for particular types of emissions or disclosures.  
 
Practitioner (in 
the context of 
SLSRS 4410 
(Revised)) 
A professional accountant in public practice who conducts the compilation engagement. The 
term includes the engagement partner or other members of the engagement team, or, as 
applicable, the firm. Where SLSR S 4410 (Revised) expressly intends that a requirement or 
responsibility be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the term “engagement partner” rather 
than “practitioner” is used. “Engagement partner” and “firm” are to be read as referring to their 
public sector equivalents where relevant. 
 
Pro forma 
adjustments 
In relation to unadjusted financial information, these include:  
 
(a)  Adjustments to unadjusted financial information that illustrate the impact of a significant 
event or transaction (“event” or “transaction”) as if the event had occurred or the 
transaction had been undertaken at an earlier date selected for purposes of the illustration; 
and  
 
(b)  Adjustments to unadjusted financial information that are necessary for the pro forma 
financial information to be compiled on a basis consistent with the applicable financial 
reporting framework of the reporting entity (“entity”) and its accounting policies  under 
that framework.  
 
Pro forma adjustments include the relevant financial information of a business that has been, 
or is to be, acquired (“acquiree”), or a business that has been, or is to be, divested (“divestee”), 
to the extent that such information is used in compiling the pro forma financial information 
(“acquiree or divestee financial information”).  
 
Pro forma financial information —Financial information shown together with adjustments to 
illustrate the impact of an event or transaction on unadjust ed financial information as if the 
event had occurred or the transaction had been undertaken at an earlier date selected for 
purposes of the illustration. In this SLSAE, it is presumed that pro forma financial information 
is presented in columnar format co nsisting of (a) the unadjusted financial information; (b) the 
pro forma adjustments; and (c) the resulting pro forma column.  
 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
Professional 
accountant 
An individual who is a member of an IFAC member body. 
 
Professional 
standards 
International Standards on Auditing (SLAuSs) and relevant ethical requirements 
† Professional 
standards (in 
the context of 
SLSQC 121) 
Engagement Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri 
Lanka), as defined in the CA Sri Lanka’s Preface to the Sri Lanka Standards on Quality 
Control, Auditing, Review, Other Assurance and Related Services , and relevant ethical 
requirements.  
 
Prospectus A document issued pursuant to legal or regulatory requirements relating to the entity’s 
securities on which it is intended that a third party should make an investment decision.  
 
Published 
financial 
information 
Financial information of the entity or of a n acquiree or a divestee that is made available 
publicly.  
 
 
Purchased 
offset 
An emissions deduction in which the entity pays for the lowering of another entity’s emissions 
(emissions reductions) or the increasing of another entity’s removals (removal enhancements), 
compared to a hypothetical baseline.  
 
Quantification The process of determining the quantity of GHGs that relate to the entity, either directly or 
indirectly, as emitted (or removed) by particular sources (or sinks).  
 
*† Reasonable 
assurance (in 
the context of 
audit 
engagements, 
and in quality 
control) 
A high, but not absolute, level of assurance.  
 
*† Relevant 
ethical 
requirements 
Ethical requirements to which the engagement team and engagement quality control reviewer 
are subject, which ordinarily comprise Parts A and B of the Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code) together with national requirements that are more restrictive. 
In the context of SLSRS 4410 (Revised), relevant ethical requirements are defined as the ethical 
requirements the engagement team is subject to when undertaking compilation engagements. 
These requirements ordinarily comprise Parts A an d B of the International Ethics Standards 
Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code) 
(excluding Section 290 , Independence —Audit and Review Engagements , and Section 291, 
Independence—Other Assurance Engagements in Part B), together with national requirements 
that are more restrictive.  
 
Removal The GHGs that the entity has, during the period, removed from the atmosphere, or that would 
have been emitted to the atmosphere had they not been captured and channeled to a sink.  
 
Significant 
facility 
A facility that is of individual significance due to the size of its emissions relative to the 
aggregate emissions included in the GHG statement or its specific nature or circumstances 
which give rise to particular risks of material misstatement.  
 
Sink A physical unit or process that removes GHGs from the atmosphere.  
 
Source A physical unit or process that releases GHGs into the atmosphere.  
 
                                                           
21  SLSQC 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services 
Engagements 
 
 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
Sri Lanka 
Accounting 
Standards 
 
[Deleted] 
Type of 
emission 
 
A grouping of emissions based on, for example, source of emission, type of gas, region, or 
facility.  
Unadjusted 
financial 
information 
Financial information of the entity to which pro forma adjustments are applied by the 
responsible party.  
 
 
SRI LANKA STANDARD ON QUALITY CONTROL 1 
 
A66 Inspection cycle policies and procedures may, for example, specify a cycle that spans three 
years. The manner in which the inspection cycle is organized, including the timing of selection 
of individual engagements, depends on many factors, such as the following: 
 
 The size of the firm. 
 
 The number and geographic location of offices. 
 
 The results of previous monitoring procedures. 
 
 The degree of authority both personnel and offices have (for example, whether individual  
offices are authorized to conduct their own inspections or whether only the head office may 
conduct them). 
 
 The nature and complexity of the firm’s practice and organization. 
 
 The risks associated with the firm’s clients and specific engagements. 
 
 
SRI LANKA FRAMEWORK FOR ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENTS 
 
51(d) Performing further procedures clearly linked to the identified risks, using a combination of 
inspection, observation, confirmation, re -calculation, re -performance, analytical procedures 
and inquiry. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 200 - OVERALL OBJECTIVES OF THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR AND THE CONDUCT OF AN AUDIT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SRI LANKA AUDITING 
STANDARDS 
 
13 (d) Auditor – The person or persons conducting the audit, usually the engagement partner or other 
members of the engagement team, or, as applicable, the firm. Where a SLAuS expressly intends 
that a requirement or responsibility be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the term 
“engagement partner” rather than “auditor” is used. “Engagement partner” and “ firm” are to 
be read as referring to their public sector equivalents where relevant. 
 
A41 SLAuS 315 (Revised) establishes requirements and provides guidance on identifying and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the financial statement and assertion levels. 
 
A43 Detection risk relates to the nature, timing, and extent of the auditor’s procedures that are 
determined by the auditor to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level. It is therefore a 
function of the effectiveness of an audit procedure and of its application by the auditor. Matters 
such as: 
 
 adequate planning; 
 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 proper assignment of personnel to the engagement team; 
 
 the application of professional skepticism; and 
 
 supervision and review of the audit work performed,  
 
A69 In using the objectives, the auditor is required to have regard to the interrelationships among 
the SLAuSs. This is because, as indicated in paragraph A53, the SLAuSs deal in some cases 
with general responsibilities and in others with the application of th ose responsibilities to 
specific topics. For example, this SLAuS requires the auditor to adopt an attitude of 
professional skepticism; this is necessary in all aspects of planning and performing an audit but 
is not repeated as a requirement of each SLAuS. At a more detailed level, SLAuS 315 (Revised) 
and SLAuS 330 contain, among other things, objectives and requirements that deal with the 
auditor’s responsibilities to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement and to design 
and perform further a udit procedures to respond to those assessed risks, respectively; these 
objectives and requirements apply throughout the audit. A SLAuS dealing with specific aspects 
of the audit (for example, SLAuS 540) may expand on how the objectives and requirements of 
such SLAuSs as SLAuS 315 (Revised)  and SLAuS 330 are to be applied in relation to the 
subject of the SLAuS but does not repeat them. Thus, in achieving the objective stated in 
SLAuS 540, the auditor has regard to the objectives and requirements of other r elevant 
SLAuSs.  
 
A72 In some cases, a SLAuS (and therefore all of its requirements) may not be relevant in the 
circumstances. For example, if an entity does not have an internal audit function, nothing in 
SLAuS 610 (Revised) is relevant. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 210 - AGREEING THE TERMS OF AUDIT ENGAGEMENTS 
 
A23 The form and content of the audit engagement letter may vary for each entity. Information 
included in the audit engagement letter on the auditor’s responsibilities may be based on 
SLAuS 200. Paragraphs 6(b) and 12 of this SLAuS deal with the description of the 
responsibilities of management. In addition to including the matters required by paragraph 10, 
an audit engagement letter may make reference to, for example: 
 
 Elaboration of the scope of the audit, including reference to applicable legislation, 
regulations, SLAuSs, and ethical and other pronouncements of professional bodies to which 
the auditor adheres. 
 
 The form of any other communication of results of the audit engagement. 
 
 The fact that because of the inherent limitations of an audit, together with the inherent 
limitations of internal control, there is an unavoidable risk that some material misstatements 
may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance 
with SLAuSs. 
 
 Arrangements regarding the planning and performance of the audit, including the 
composition of the engagement team. 
 
 The expectation that management will provide written representations (see also paragra ph 
A13). 
 
 The agreement of management to make available to the auditor draft financial statements 
and any accompanying other information in time to allow the auditor to complete the audit 
in accordance with the proposed timetable. 
 
 The agreement of managem ent to inform the auditor of facts that may affect the financial 
statements, of which management may become aware during the period from the date of 
the auditor’s report to the date the financial statements are issued. 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 The basis on which fees are computed and any billing arrangements. 
 
 A request for management to acknowledge receipt of the audit engagement letter and to 
agree to the terms of the engagement outlined therein. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 220 - QUALITY CONTROL FOR AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
 
2(b) Reports issued by the firm or engagement partners are appropriate in the circumstances.  
 
A28 Other matters relevant to evaluating the significant judgments made by the engagement team 
that may be considered in an engagement quality control review of a listed entity include: 
 
 Significant risks identified during the engagement in accordance with SLAuS 315 
(Revised), and the responses to those risks in accordance with SLAuS  330, including the 
engagement team’s assessment of, and response to, the risk of fraud in accordance with 
SLAuS 240.  
 
 Judgments made, particularly with respect to materiality and significant risks.  
 
 The significance and disposition of corrected and uncor rected misstatements identified 
during the audit. 
 
 The matters to be communicated to management and those charged with governance and, 
where applicable, other parties such as regulatory bodies. 
 
These other matters, depending on the circumstances, may also 
 
A33 In considering deficiencies that may affect the audit engagement, the engagement partner may 
have regard to measures the firm took to rectify the situation that the engagement partner 
considers are significant in the context of that audit. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 230 - AUDIT DOCUMENTATION 
 
A7 Audit documentation provides evidence that the audit complies with the SLAuSs. However, it 
is neither necessary nor practicable for the auditor to document every matter considered, or 
professional judgment made, in an audit. Further, it is unnecessary for the auditor to document 
separately (as in a checklist, for example) compliance with matters for which compliance is 
demonstrated by documents included within the audit file. For example:  
 
 The existence of an adequately documented audit plan demonstrates that the auditor has 
planned the audit. 
 
 The existence of a signed engagement letter in the audit file demonstrates that the auditor 
has agreed the terms of the audit engagement with management or, where appropriate, those 
charged with governance. 
 
 An auditor’s report containing an appropriately qualified opinion on the financial statements 
demonstrates that the auditor has complied with the requirement to express a qualified 
opinion under the circumstances specified in the SLAuSs. 
 
 In relation to requirements that apply generally throughout the audit, there may be a number 
of ways in which compliance with them may be demonstrated within the audit file:  
 
º For example, there may be no single way in whic h the auditor’s professional 
skepticism is documented. But the audit documentation may nevertheless provide 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
evidence of the auditor’s exercise of professional skepticism in accordance with the 
SLAuSs. Such evidence may include specific procedures performed  to corroborate 
management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries. 
 
o Similarly, that the engagement partner has taken responsibility for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit in compliance with the SLAuSs may be 
evidenced in a number of wa ys within the audit documentation. This may include 
documentation of the engagement partner’s timely involvement in aspects of the 
audit, such as participation in the team discussions required by SLAuS 315 
(Revised). 
 
A8. Judging the significance of a matter requires an objective analysis of the facts and 
circumstances. Examples of significant matters include:  
 
 Matters that give rise to significant risks (as defined in SLAuS 315 (Revised)).  
 
 Results of audit procedures indicating (a) that the financial statements could be materially 
misstated, or (b) a need to revise the auditor’s previous assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement and the auditor’s responses to those risks.  
 
 Circumstances that cause the auditor significant difficulty in applying necessary audit 
procedures.  
 
 Findings that could result in a modification to the audit opinion or the inclusion of an 
Emphasis of Matter paragraph in the auditor’s report. 
 
A19 The documentati on requirement applies only to requirements that are relevant in the 
circumstances. A requirement is not relevant  only in the cases where: 
 
 (a)  The entire SLAuS is not relevant (for example, if an entity does not have an internal audit 
function, nothing in SLAuS 610 (Revised)  is relevant); or  
 
(b)  The requirement is conditional and the condition does not exist (for example, the 
requirement to modify the auditor’s opinion where there is an inability to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence, and there is no such inability). 
 
 Specific Audit Documentation Requirements in Other SLAuS 
….. 
 SLAuS 315 (Revised) , Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement 
through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment – paragraph 32 
….. 
 SLAuS 610 (Revised), Using the Work of Internal Auditors – paragraph 24 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 240 - THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO 
FRAUD IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to 
fraud in an audit of financial statements. Specifically, it expands on how SLAuS 315(Revised) 
and SLAuS 330 are to be applied in relation to risks of material misstatement due to fraud.  
 
15 SLAuS 315 (Revised) requires a discussion among the engagement team members and a 
determination by the engagement partner of which matters are to be communicated to tho se 
team members not involved in the discussion. This discussion shall place particular emphasis 
on how and where the entity’s financial statements may be susceptible to material misstatement 
due to fraud, including how fraud might occur. The discussion shall occur setting aside beliefs 
that the engagement team members may have that management and those charged with 
governance are honest and have integrity. (Ref: Para. A10-A11) 
 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
16 When performing risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain an understanding 
of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control, required by SLAuS 
315 (Revised),   the auditor shall perform the procedures in paragraphs 17 -24 to obtain 
information for use in identifying the risks of material misstatement due to fraud. 
 
19 For those entities that have an internal audit function, the auditor shall make inquiries of 
appropriate individuals within the function to determine whether they have knowledge of any 
actual, suspected or alleged fraud affecting the entity, and to obtain its views about the risks of 
fraud. (Ref: Para. A18) 
 
25 In accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised) , the auditor shall identify and assess the risks of 
material misstatement due to fraud at the financial statement level, an d at the assertion level 
for classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures. 
 
44 The auditor shall include the following in the audit documentation of the auditor’s 
understanding of the entity and its environment and the assessment of the risks  of material 
misstatement required by SLAuS 315 (Revised): 
 
(a)  The significant decisions reached during the discussion among the engagement team 
regarding the susceptibility of the entity’s financial statements to material misstatement 
due to fraud; and 
 
(b)  The identified and assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the financial 
statement level and at the assertion level. 
 
A18 SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 610 (Revised) establish requirements and provide guidance 
relevant to  audits of those entities that have an internal audit function. In carrying out the 
requirements of those SLAuSs in the context of fraud, the auditor may inquire about specific 
activities of the function including, for example: 
 
 The procedures performed, if any, by the internal auditors during the year to detect fraud. 
 
 Whether management has satisfactorily responded to any findings resulting from those 
procedures. 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Internal control components are deficient as a result of the following: 
 
 High turnover rates or employment of staff in accounting, information technology, or the 
internal audit function that are not effective.  
 
  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 250 - CONSIDERATION OF LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN 
AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
12 As part of obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment in accordance with 
SLAuS 315 (Revised), the auditor shall obtain a general understanding of: 
 
(a)  The legal and regulatory framework applicable to the entity and the industry or sector in 
which the entity operates; and 
 
(b)  How the entity is complying with that framework. (Ref: Para. A7) 
 
 
 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 260 - COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE CHARGED WITH 
GOVERNANCE 
 
A3 Such diversity means that it is not possible for this ISA to specify for all audits the person(s) 
with whom the auditor is to communicate particular matters. Also, in some cases, the 
appropriate person(s) with whom to communicate may not be clearly identif iable from the 
applicable legal framework or other engagement circumstances, for example, entities where 
the governance structure is not formally defined, such as some family -owned entities, some 
not-for-profit organizations, and some government entities. In such cases, the auditor may need 
to discuss and agree with the engaging party the relevant person(s) with whom to communicate. 
In deciding with whom to communicate, the auditor’s understanding of an entity’s governance 
structure and processes obtained i n accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised)  is relevant. The 
appropriate person(s) with whom to communicate may vary depending on the matter to be 
communicated. 
 
A14 …. 
 Where the entity has an internal audit function, how the external auditor and internal 
auditors can work in a constructive and complementary manner, including any planned use 
of the work of the internal audit function. 
A29 …. 
 The person(s) in the engagement team and amongst those charged with governance who 
will communicate regarding particular matters. 
….. 
A33 Before communicating matters with those charged with governance, the auditor may discuss 
them with management, unless that is inappropriate. For example, it may not be appropriate to 
discuss questions of management’s competence or integrity with management. In addition to 
recognizing management’s executive responsibility, these initial discussions may clarify facts 
and issues, and give management an o pportunity to provide further information and 
explanations. Similarly, when the entity has an internal audit function, the auditor may discuss 
matters with appropriate individuals within the function  before communicating with those 
charged with governance. 
 
A43 As noted in paragraph 4, effective two -way communication assists both the auditor and those 
charged with governance. Further, SLAuS 315(Revised)  identifies participation by those 
charged with governance, including their interaction with the internal audit function, if any, 
and external auditors, as an element of the entity’s control environment. Inadequate two -way 
communication may indicate an unsatisfactory control environment and influence the auditor’s 
assessment of the risks of material misstatements. There is also a risk that the auditor may not 
have obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to form an opinion on the financial 
statements. 
 
Appendix 1 
 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in SLSQC 1 and other SLAuSs  in effect for audits of 
financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014 that require 
communication of specific matters with those charged with governance. The list is not a 
substitute for considering the requirements and related application and other explanatory 
material in SLAuSs. 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Specific Requirements in SLSQC 1 and Other SLAuSs that Refer to Communications 
with Those Charged With Governance 
……. 
•  SLAuS 610 (Revised), Using the Work of Internal Auditors – paragraph 18 
…… 
 
 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 265 - COMMUNICATING DEFICIENCIES IN INTERNAL 
CONTROL TO THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT  
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS ) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to 
communicate appropriately to those charged with governance and management deficiencies in 
internal control that the auditor has identified in an audit of financial statements. This SLAuS 
does not impose additional responsibilities on the auditor regarding obtaining an understanding 
of internal control and designing and performing tests of controls over and above the 
requirements of SLAuS 315 (Revised)  and SLAuS 330 SLAuS 260 establishes further 
requirements and p rovides guidance regarding the auditor’s responsibility to communicate 
with those charged with governance in relation to the audit. 
 
A15 The level of detail at which to communicate significant deficiencies is a matter of the auditor’s 
professional judgmen t in the circumstances. Factors that the auditor may consider in 
determining an appropriate level of detail for the communication include, for example:  
 
 The nature of the entity. For example, the communication required for a public interest 
entity may be different from that for a non-public interest entity. 
 
 The size and complexity of the entity. For example, the communication required for a 
complex entity may be different from that for an entity operating a simple business.  
 
 The nature of significant deficiencies that the auditor has identified.  
 
 The entity’s governance composition. For example, more detail may be needed if those 
charged with governance include members who do not have significant experience in the 
entity’s industry or in the affected areas.  
 
 Legal or regulatory requirements regarding the communication of specific types of 
deficiency in internal control. 
 
A24 If the auditor has communicated deficiencies in internal control other than significant 
deficiencies to management in a prior period and management has chosen not to remedy them 
for cost or other reasons, the auditor need not repeat the communication in th e current period. 
The auditor is also not required to repeat information about such deficiencies if it has been 
previously communicated to management by other parties, such as the internal audit function 
or regulators. It may, however, be appropriate for t he auditor to re -communicate these other 
deficiencies if there has been a change of management, or if new information has come to the 
auditor’s attention that alters the prior understanding of the auditor and management regarding 
the deficiencies. Neverthe less, the failure of management to remedy other deficiencies in 
internal control that were previously communicated may become a significant deficiency 
requiring communication with those charged with governance. Whether this is the case 
depends on the auditor’s judgment in the circumstances 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 300 - PLANNING AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
9 (a) The nature, timing and extent of planned risk assessment procedures, as determined under 
SLAuS 315 (Revised). 
 
A11 In audits of small entities, the entire audit may be conducted by a very small engagement team. 
Many audits of small entities involve the engagement partner (who may be a sole practitioner) 
working with one engagement team member (or without any engagement team members). With 
a smaller team, co -ordination of, and communication between, team members are easier. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
Establishing the overall audit strategy for the audit of a small entity need not be a complex or 
time-consuming exercise; it varies according to the size of the entity, the complexity of the 
audit, and the size of the engagement team. For example, a brief memorandum prepared at the 
completion of the previous audit, based on a review of the working papers and highlighting 
issues identified in the audit just completed, updated in the current period based on discussions 
with the owner -manager, can serve as the documented audit strategy for the current audit 
engagement if it covers the matters noted in paragraph 8. 
 
Appendix 1 …….. 
 Whether the entity has an internal audit function and if so, whether, in which areas and to 
what extent, the work of the function can be used for purposes of the audit.  
……. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 315 - IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING 
THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT THROUGH UNDERSTANDING 
THE ENTITY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT 
 
SLAuS 315 (Revised) is included separately at the end of this document. 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 320 - MATERIALITY IN PLANNING AND 
PERFORMING AN AUDIT 
 
No changes 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 330 - THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSES TO ASSESSED RISKS 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS ) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to design 
and implement responses to the risks of material misstatement identified and assessed by the 
auditor in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised) in an audit of financial statements. 
 
A1. Overall responses to address the assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial 
statement level may include: 
 
 Emphasizing to the engagement team the need to maintain professional skepticism.  
 
 Assigning more experienced staff or those with special skills or using experts.  
 
 Providing more supervision.  
 
 Incorporating additional elements of unpredictability in the selection of further audit 
procedures to be performed.  
 
 Making general changes to the nature, timing, or extent of audit procedures, for 
example: performing substantive procedures at the period end instead of at an interim 
date; or modifying the nature of audit procedures to obtain more persuasive audit 
evidence. 
 
A60 In such circumstances, the auditor may need to reevaluate the planned audit procedures, based 
on the revised consideration of assessed risks for all or some of the classes of transactions, 
account balances, or disclosures and related assertions. SLAuS 315 (Revised) contains further 
guidance on revising the auditor’s risk assessment. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 402 - AUDIT CONSIDERATIONS RELATING 
TO AN ENTITY USING A SERVICE ORGANIZATION 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS ) deals with the user auditor’s responsibility to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence when a user entity uses the services of one or more 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
service organizations. Specifically, it expands on how the user auditor applies SLAuS 315 
(Revised) and SLAuS 330 in obtaining an understanding of the user entity, including internal 
control relevant to the audit, sufficient to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
and in designing and performing further audit procedures responsive to those risks . 
 
9 When obtaining an understanding of the user entity in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised) 
the user auditor shall obtain an understanding of how a user entity uses the services of a service 
organization in the user entity’s operations, including: (Ref: Para. A1-A2) 
10 When obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in accordance with 
SLAuS 315 (Revised), the user auditor shall evaluate the design and implementation of relevant 
controls at the user entity that relate to the se rvices provided by the service organization, 
including those that are applied to the transactions processed by the service organization. (Ref: 
Para. A12-A14) 
A1 …. 
 Reports by service organizations, the internal audit function  or regulatory authorities on 
controls at the service organization. 
…. 
 
A14 As noted in SLAuS 315 (Revised) in respect of some risks, the user auditor may judge that it 
is not possible or practicable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence only fr om 
substantive procedures. Such risks may relate to the inaccurate or incomplete recording of 
routine and significant classes of transactions and account balances, the characteristics of 
which often permit highly automated processing with little or no manu al intervention. Such 
automated processing characteristics may be particularly present when the user entity uses 
service organizations. In such cases, the user entity’s controls over such risks are relevant to 
the audit and the user auditor is required to obtain an understanding of, and to evaluate, such 
controls in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 of this SLAuS. 
 
A16 A service organization may engage a service auditor to report on the description and design of 
its controls (type 1 report) or on the des cription and design of its controls and their operating 
effectiveness (type 2 report). Type 1 or type 2 reports may be issued under Sri Lanka Standard 
on Assurance Engagements (SLSAE) 3402 or under standards established by an authorized or 
recognized standards setting organization (which may identify them by different names, such 
as Type A or Type B reports). 
 
A22 (d) Whether controls at the service organization are suitably designed and implemented to prevent 
or detect and correct  processing errors that could result in material misstatements in the user 
entity’s financial statements. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 450 - EVALUATION OF MISSTATEMENTS 
IDENTIFIED DURING THE AUDIT 
 
No Changes 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 500 - AUDIT EVIDENCE 
 
2 This SLAuS is applicable to all the audit evidence obtained during the course of the audit. 
Other SLAuSs deal with specific aspects of the audit (for example, SLAuS 315 (Revised)), the 
audit evidence to be obtained in relation to a particular topic (for example, SLAuS 570), 
specific procedures to obtain audit evidence (for example, SLAuS 520), and the evaluation of 
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained (SLAuS 200 and SLAuS 330). 
 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
A10 As required by, and explained further in, SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 330, audit evidence 
to draw reasonable conclusions on which to base the auditor’s opinion is obtained by 
performing: 
 
(a)  Risk assessment procedures; and 
 
(b)  Further audit procedures, which comprise: 
 
A45 The nature of internal and external data or information the management’s expert uses. 
 
A51 In some cases, the auditor may intend to use information produced by the entity for other audit 
purposes. For example, the auditor may intend to make use of the entity’s performance 
measures for the purpose of analytical procedures, or to make use of the e ntity’s information 
produced for monitoring activities, such as reports of the internal audit function. In such cases, 
the appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained is affected by whether the information is 
sufficiently precise or detailed for the auditor’s purposes. For example, performance measures 
used by management may not be precise enough to detect material misstatements.  
 
A57 Obtaining audit evidence from different sources or of a different nature may indicate that an 
individual item of audit e vidence is not reliable, such as when audit evidence obtained from 
one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another. This may be the case when, for 
example, responses to inquiries of management, internal auditors, and others are inconsistent, 
or when responses to inquiries of those charged with governance made to corroborate the 
responses to inquiries of management are inconsistent with the response by management. 
SLAuS 230 includes a specific documentation requirement if the auditor identified information 
that is inconsistent with the auditor’s final conclusion regarding a significant matter.  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 501 - AUDIT EVIDENCE—SPECIFIC 
CONSIDERATIONS FOR SELECTED ITEMS 
 
 No changes 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 505 - EXTERNAL CONFIRMATIONS 
 
A17 When the auditor concludes that a response is unreliable, the auditor may need to revise the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level and modify planned audit 
procedures accordingly, in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised). For example, an unreliable 
response may indicate a fraud risk factor that requires evaluation in accordance with SLAuS 
240. 
 
A19 The nature and extent of alternative audit procedures are affected by the account and assertion 
in question. A non-response to a confirmation request may indicate a previously unidentified 
risk of material misstatement. In such situations, the auditor may need to revise the assessed 
risk of material misstatement at the assertion level, and modify planned audi t procedures, in 
accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised). For example, fewer responses to confirmation requests 
than anticipated, or a greater number of responses than anticipated, may indicate a previously 
unidentified fraud risk factor that requires evaluation in accordance with SLAuS 240. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 510 - INITIAL AUDIT ENGAGEMENTS—
OPENING BALANCES 
 
9 If the prior period’s financial statements were audited by a predecessor auditor and there was 
a modification to the opinion, the auditor shall evaluate the effect of the matter giving rise to 
the modification in assessing the risks of material misstatement in the current period’s financial 
statements in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised). 
 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
A2 If the statutorily appointed auditor outsources an audit of a public sector entity to a private 
sector audit firm, and the statutorily appointed auditor appoints an audit firm other than the 
firm that audited the financial statements of the public sector e ntity in the prior period, this is 
not usually regarded as a change in auditors for the statutorily appointed auditor. Depending 
on the nature of the outsourcing arrangement, however, the audit engagement may be 
considered an initial audit engagement from the perspective of the private sector auditor in 
fulfilling the auditor’s responsibilities, and therefore this SLAuS applies. 
 
Appendix 
(Ref: Para. A8)  
 
Illustrations of Auditors’ Reports with Modified Opinions 
Illustration 1 
Report on the Financial Statements  
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position  as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
 Basis for Qualified Opinion 
 
We were appointed as auditors of the company on June 30, 20X1 and thus did not observe the 
counting of the physical inventories at the beginning of the year. We were unable to satisfy 
ourselves by alternative means concerning inventory quantities held at D ecember 31, 20X0. 
Since opening inventories enter into the determination of the financial performance and cash 
flows, we were unable to determine whether adjustments might have been necessary in respect 
of the profit for the year reported in the statement of comprehensive income and the net cash 
flows from operating activities reported in the statement of cash flows.  
 
 Illustration 2 
 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanator y 
information. 
 
 Basis for Qualified Opinion on the Financial Performance and Cash Flows  
 
We were appointed as auditors of the company on June 30, 20X1 and thus did not observe the 
counting of the physical inventories at the beginning of the year. We were unable to satisfy 
ourselves by alternative means concerning inventory quantities held at D ecember 31, 20X0. 
Since opening inventories enter into the determination of the financial performance and cash 
flows, we were unable to determine whether adjustments might have been necessary in respect 
of the profit for the year reported in the statement of comprehensive income and the net cash 
flows from operating activities reported in the statement of cash flows.  
 
 Qualified Opinion on the Financial Performance and Cash Flows  
 
In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified 
Opinion paragraph, the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Statement of Cash Flows 
present fairly, in all material respects (or give a true and fair view of), the financial performance 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
and cash flows of ABC Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1 in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards.  
 
 Opinion on the Financial Position  
 
In our opinion, the statement of financial position  presents fairly, in all material respects (or 
gives a true and fair view of) the financial position of ABC Company as at December 31, 20X1 
in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 520 - ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard ( SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s use of analytical 
procedures as substantive procedures (“substantive analytical procedures”). It also deals with 
the auditor’s responsibility to perform analytical procedures near the end of the audit that assist 
the auditor  when forming an overall conclusion on the financial statements. SLAuS 315 
(Revised) deals with the use of analytical procedures as risk assessment procedures. SLAuS 
330 includes requirements and guidance regarding the nature, timing and extent of audit 
procedures in response to assessed risks; these audit procedures may include substantive 
analytical procedures. 
 
A18 The results of such analytical procedures may identify a previously unrecognized risk of 
material misstatement. In such circumstances, SLAuS 315 (Revised) requires the auditor to 
revise the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement and modify the further 
planned audit procedures accordingly. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 530 - AUDIT SAMPLING 
 
Appendix 2 
Examples 
 FACTOR  EFFECT ON 
SAMPLE 
SIZE 
 
5 Negotiable 
effect 
For large populations, the actual size of the population has 
little, if any, effect on sample size . Thus, for small 
populations, audit sampling is often not as efficient as 
alternative means of obtaining sufficie nt appropriate audit 
evidence. 
 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 540 - AUDITING ACCOUNTING 
ESTIMATES, INCLUDING FAIR VALUE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, AND 
RELATED DISCLOSURES 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to 
accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates, and related disclosures in an 
audit of financial statements. Specifically, it expands on how SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 
330 and othe r relevant SLAuSs are to be applied in relation to accounting estimates. It also 
includes requirements and guidance on misstatements of individual accounting estimates, and 
indicators of possible management bias. 
 
8 When performing risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain an understanding 
of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control, as required by SLAuS 
315 (Revised), the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the following in order to provide a 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement for accounting 
estimates: (Ref: Para. A12) 
 
10 In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement, as required by SLAuS 315 
(Revised), the auditor shall evaluate the degree of estimation uncertainty associated with an 
accounting estimate. (Ref: Para. A45-A46) 
 
A20 During the audit, the auditor may identify transactions, events and conditions that give rise to 
the need for accounting  estimates that management failed to identify. SLAuS 315 (Revised)  
deals with circumstances where the auditor identifies risks of material misstatement that 
management failed to identify, including determining whether there is a significant deficiency 
in internal control with regard to the entity’s risk assessment processes. 11 
 
A87 There are alternative sources of relevant data available to the auditor which can be used in 
developing a point estimate or a range. 
 
A90 The ability of the auditor to develop a point estimate, as opposed to a range, depends on several 
factors, including the model used, the nature and extent of data available and the estimation 
uncertainty involved with the accounting estimate. Further, the decision to develop a point 
estimate or range may be influenced by the applicable financial reporting framework, which 
may prescribe the point estimate that is to be used after consideration of the alternative 
outcomes and assumptions, or prescribe a specific measurement method (for example, the use 
of a discounted probability-weighted expected value). 
 
A92 When the auditor develops a point estimate or a range and uses assumptions or a method 
different from those used by management, paragraph 13(d)(i) requires the auditor to obtain a 
sufficient understanding of the assumptions or method used by management in making the 
accounting estimate. This understanding provides the auditor with information that may be 
relevant to the auditor’s development of an appropriate point estimate or range. Furthe r, it 
assists the auditor to understand and evaluate any significant differences from management’s 
point estimate. For example, a difference may arise because the auditor used different, but 
equally valid, assumptions as compared with those used by management. This may reveal that 
the accounting estimate is highly sensitive to certain assumptions and therefore subject to high 
estimation uncertainty, indicating that the accounting estimate may be a significant risk. 
Alternatively, a difference may arise as a  result of a factual error made by management. 
Depending on the circumstances, the auditor may find it helpful in drawing conclusions to 
discuss with management the basis for the assumptions used and their validity, and the 
difference, if any, in the approach taken to making the accounting estimate. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 550 - RELATED PARTIES 
 
1 This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the auditor’s responsibilities relating to 
related party relationships and transactions in an audit of financial statements. Specifically, it 
expands on how SLAuS 315 (Revised),  SLAuS 330, and SLAuS 240 are to be applied in 
relation to risks o f material misstatement associated with related party relationships and 
transactions. 
 
11 As part of the risk assessment procedures and related activities that SLAuS 315 (Revised) and 
SLAuS 240 require the auditor to perform during the audit the auditor s hall perform the audit 
                                                           
11  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 16. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 21A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
procedures and related activities set out in paragraphs 12 -17 to obtain information relevant to 
identifying the risks of material misstatement associated with related party relationships and 
transactions. (Ref: Para. A8) 
 
12 The eng agement team discussion that SLAuS 315 (Revised)  and SLAuS 240 require shall 
include specific consideration of the susceptibility of the financial statements to material 
misstatement due to fraud or error that could result from the entity’s related party relationships 
and transactions. (Ref: Para. A9-A10) 
 
18 In meeting the SLAuS 315 (Revised)  requirement to identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement, the auditor shall identify and assess the risks of material misstatement associated 
with related party relationships and transactions and determine whether any of those risks are 
significant risks. In making this determination, the auditor shall treat identified significant 
related party transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business as giving rise to 
significant risks. 
 
A12 However, where the framework does not establish related party requirements, the entity may 
not have such information systems in place. Under such circumstances, it is possible that 
management may not be aware of the existence of all related parties. Nevert heless, the 
requirement to make the inquiries specified by paragraph 13 still applies because management 
may be aware of parties that meet the related party definition set out in this SLAuS. In such a 
case, however, the auditor’s inquiries regarding the id entity of the entity’s related parties are 
likely to form part of the auditor’s risk assessment procedures and related activities performed 
in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised) to obtain information regarding: 
 
 The entity’s ownership and governance structures; 
 
 The types of investments that the entity is making and plans to make; and 
 
 The way the entity is structured and how it is financed. 
 
In the particular case of common control relationships, as management is more likely to be 
aware of such relationships if they have economic significance to the entity, the auditor’s 
inquiries are likely to be more effective if they are focused on whether parties with which the 
entity engages in significant transactions, or shares resources to a significant degree, are related 
parties. 
 
A15 Others within the entity are those considered likely to have knowledge of the entity’s related 
party relationships and transactions, and the entity’s controls over such relationships and 
transactions. These may include, to the extent that they do not form part of management: 
 
 Those charged with governance; 
 
 Personnel in a position to initiate, process, or record transactions that are both significant 
and outside the entity’s normal course of business, and those who supervise or monitor such 
personnel; 
 
 The internal audit function; 
 
 In-house legal counsel; and 
 
 The chief ethics officer or equivalent person. 
 
A17 In meeting the SLAuS 315 (Revised)  requirement to obtain an understanding of the control 
environment, the auditor may consider features of the control environment relevant to 
mitigating the risks of material misstatement associated with related party relationships and 
transactions, such as: 
 
 Internal ethical codes, appropriately communicated to the entity’s personnel and enforced, 
governing the circumstances in which the entity may enter into specific types of related 
party transactions. 
 

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 Policies and procedures for open and timely disclosure of the interests that management and 
those charged with governance have in related party transactions. 
 
 The assignment of responsibilities within the entity for identifying, recording, summarizing, 
and disclosing related party transactions. 
 
 Timely disclosure and discussion between management and those charged with governance 
of significant related party transactions outside the entity’s normal course of business, 
including whether those charged with governance have appropriately challenged the 
business rationale of such transactions (for example, by seeking advice from external 
professional advisors). 
 
 Clear guidelines for the approval of related party transactions involving actual or perceived 
conflicts of interest, such as approval by a subcommittee of those charged with governance 
comprising individuals independent of management. 
 
 Periodic reviews by the internal audit function, where applicable. 
 
 Proactive action taken by management to resolve related party disclosure issues, such as by 
seeking advice from the auditor or external legal counsel. 
 
 The existence of whistle-blowing policies and procedures, where applicable. 
 
A22 During the audit, the auditor may inspect records or documents that may provide information 
about related party relationships and transactions, for example: 
 
 Third-party confirmations obtained by the auditor (in addition to bank and legal 
confirmations). 
 
 Entity income tax returns. 
 
 Information supplied by the entity to regulatory authorities. 
 
 Shareholder registers to identify the entity’s principal shareholders. 
 
 Statements of conflicts of interest from management and those charged with governance.  
 
 Records of the entity’s investments and those of its pension plans. 
 
 Contracts and agreements with key management or those charged with governance. 
 
 Significant contracts and agreements not in the entity’s ordinary course of business.  
 
 Specific invoices and correspondence from the entity’s professional advisors.  
 
 Life insurance policies acquired by the entity. 
 
 Significant contracts re-negotiated by the entity during the period. 
 
 Reports of the internal audit function.  
 
 Documents associated with the entity’s filings with a securities regulator (for example, 
prospectuses). 
 
Arrangements that may indicate the existence of previously unidentified or undisclosed related 
party relationships or transactions (Ref: Para. 15). 
 
A40 Authorization and approval by management, those charged with governance, or, where 
applicable, the shareholders of significant related party transactions outside the entity’s normal 
course of business may provide audit evidence that these have been duly co nsidered at the 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
appropriate levels within the entity and that their terms and conditions have been appropriately 
reflected in the financial statements. The existence of transactions of this nature that were not 
subject to such authorization and approval, i n the absence of rational explanations based on 
discussion with management or those charged with governance, may indicate risks of material 
misstatement due to fraud or error. In these circumstances, the auditor may need to be alert for 
other transactions of a similar nature. Authorization and approval alone, however, may not be 
sufficient in concluding whether risks of material misstatement due to fraud are absent because 
authorization and approval may be ineffective if there has been collusion between the  related 
parties or if the entity is subject to the dominant influence of a related party.  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 560 - SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
 
No Changes 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 570 - GOING CONCERN 
10 When performing risk assessment procedures as required by SLAuS 315 (Revised),  the auditor 
shall consider whether there are events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. In so doing, the auditor shall determine whether 
management has already performed a preliminary assessment of the entity’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, and: (Ref: Para. A2-A5) 
 
19 (b) Draw attention to the note in the financial statements that discloses the matters set out in 
paragraph 18. (Ref: Para. A21-A22) 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 580 - WRITTEN REPRESENTATIONS 
 
A3 Due to its responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, and its responsibilities 
for the conduct of the entity’s business, management would be expected to have sufficient 
knowledge of the process followed by the entity in preparing the financial statements and the 
assertions therein on which to base the written representations. 
Appendix 1 List of SLAuSs Containing Requirements for Written Representations 
 
This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements 
for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014 that require subject-matter specific written 
representations. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements and related 
application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs. 
 
Appendix 2 
 
Illustrative Representation Letter 
 
The following illustrative letter includes written representations that are required by this and 
other SLAuSs in effect for audits of financial statements for periods beginning  on or after 01 
January 2014. It is assumed in this illustration that the applicable financial reporting framework 
is Sri Lanka Accounting Standards; the requirement of SLAuS 570 to obtain a written 
representation is not relevant; and that there are no exc eptions to the requested written 
representations. If there were exceptions, the representations would need to be modified to 
reflect the exceptions. 
 
  
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 600 - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS 
OF GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (INCLUDING THE WORK OF 
COMPONENT AUDITORS) 
 
A2 The structure of a group affects how components are identified. For example, the group 
financial reporting system may be based on an organizational structure that provides for 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
financial information to be prep ared by a parent and one or more subsidiaries, joint ventures, 
or investees accounted for by the equity or cost methods of accounting; by a head office and 
one or more divisions or branches; or by a combination of both. Some groups, however, may 
organize their financial reporting system by function, process, product or service (or by groups 
of products or services), or geographic locations. In these cases, the entity or business activity 
for which group or component management prepares financial information  that is included in 
the group financial statements may be a function, process, product or service (or group of 
products or services), or geographic location. 
 
A23 SLAuS 315 (Revised) contains guidance on matters the auditor may consider when obtaining 
an understanding of the industry, regulatory, and other external factors that affect the entity, 
including the applicable financial reporting framework; the nature of the entity; objectives and 
strategies and related business risks; and measurement and review of the entity’s financial 
performance. Appendix 2 of this SLAuS contains guidance on matters specific to a group, 
including the consolidation process. 
 
A27 ……. 
 Responses of those charged with governance of the group, group management, appropriate 
individuals within the internal audit function  (and if considered appropriate, component 
management, the component auditors, and others) to the group engagement team’s inquiry 
whether they h ave knowledge of any actual, suspected, or alleged fraud affecting a 
component or the group. 
 
A51 …… 
 Whether the internal audit function has performed work at the component and any effect of 
that work on the group audit. 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Example of a Qualified Opinion Where the Group Engagement Team Is Not Able to 
Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence on Which to Base the Group Audit 
Opinion 
 
 In this example, the group engagement team is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence relating to a significant component accounted for by the equity method (recognized 
at Rs 15 million in the statement of financial position , which reflects total assets of Rs 60 
million) because the group engagement team did not have access to the accounting records, 
management, or auditor of the component. 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and 
its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 
December 31, 20X1, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, statement of 
changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
 
Appendix 1 Basis for Qualified Opinion 
 
ABC Company’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate acquired during the year 
and accounted for by the equity method, is carried at Rs 15 million on the consolidated 
statement of fi nancial position  as at December 31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net 
income of Rs 1 million is included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 
the year then ended. We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about th e 
carrying amount of ABC’s investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
XYZ’s net income for the year because we were denied access to the financial information, 
management, and the auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we were unable to determine  whether 
any adjustments to these amounts were necessary. 
 
Appendix 2 
Para 1 
…… 
 Monitoring of controls, including activities of the internal audit function and self - 
assessment programs. 
 
Appendix 2 
Para 2 
The internal audit function may be regarded as part of group-wide controls, for example, when 
the function is centralized. SLAuS 610 (Revised) deals with the group engagement team’s 
evaluation of whether the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies 
and procedures adequately supports the objectivity of internal auditors, the level of competence 
of the internal audit function, and whether the function applies a systematic and disciplined 
approach where the group audit team expects to use the function’s work. 
 
Appendix 5 
 
…… 
 The findings of the internal audit function, based on work performed on controls at or 
relevant to components. 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 610 - USING THE WORK OF INTERNAL 
AUDITORS 
 
SLAuS 610 (Revised) is included separately at the end of this document.  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 620 - USING THE WORK OF AN AUDITOR’S 
EXPERT 
 
No Changes 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 700 - FORMING AN OPINION AND 
REPORTING ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
A23 In some jurisdictions, law or regulation prescribing management’s responsibilities may 
specifically refer to a responsibility for the adequacy of accounting books and records, or 
accounting system. As books, records and systems are an integral part of inte rnal control (as 
defined in SLAuS 315 (Revised), the descriptions in SLAuS 210 and in paragraph 26 do not 
make specific reference to them. 
 
Appendix 
Illustration 1 
 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
Illustration 3: We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its 
subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position  as at December 
31, 20X1, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income , statement of changes in 
equity and statement of  cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information.  
 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 705 - MODIFICATIONS TO THE OPINION IN THE 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
Heading 
A4. 
Application of the Selected Accounting Policies 
In relation to the appropriateness of the accounting policies management has selected, 
material misstatements of the financial statements may arise when:  
………… 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 1 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
 
The company’s inventories are carried in the statement of financial position at xxx. 
 
 
Illustration 2: 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its 
subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position  as at December 
31, 20X1, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive  income, statement of changes in 
equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information.  
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 3 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion 
 
ABC Company’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate acquired during the year 
and accounted for by the equity method, is carried at xxx on the statement of financial position 
as at December 31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income of xxx is included in ABC’s 
income for the year then ended. We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
about the carrying amount of ABC’s investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s 
share of XYZ’s net income for the year because we were den ied access to the financial 
information, management, and the auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we were unable to 
determine whether any adjustments to these amounts were necessary.  
 
 
 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 4 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We were engaged to audit the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which 
comprise the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 27A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 5 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We were engaged to audit the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, whi ch 
comprise the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and oth er explanatory 
information. 
 
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 
 
We were not appointed as auditors of the company until after December 31, 20X1 and thus did 
not observe the counting of physical inventories at the beginning and end of the year. We were 
unable to satisfy ourselves by alternative means concerning the inven tory quantities held at 
December 31, 20X0 and 20X1 which are stated in the statement of financial position  at xxx 
and xxx, respectively. In addition, the introduction of a new computerized accounts receivable 
system in September 20X1 resulted in numerous e rrors in accounts receivable. As of the date 
of our audit report, management was still in the process of rectifying the system deficiencies 
and correcting the errors. We were unable to confirm or verify by alternative means accounts 
receivable included in the statement of financial position  at a total amount of xxx as at 
December 31, 20X1. As a result of these matters, we were unable to determine whether any 
adjustments might have been found necessary in respect of recorded or unrecorded inventories 
and accounts receivable, and the elements making up the statement of comprehensive income, 
statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows.  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 706 - EMPHASIS OF MATTER 
PARAGRAPHS AND OTHER  MATTER PARAGRAPHS IN THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
Appendix 3 
 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise the 
statement of financial position  as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of comprehensive 
income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, 
and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.   
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
 
The company’s short -term marketable securities are carried in the statement of financial 
position at xxx. Management has not marked these securities to market but has instead stated 
them at cost, which constitutes a departure from International Financial Reporting Standards. 
The company’s records indicate that had management marked the marketable secu rities to 
market, the company would have recognized an unrealized loss of xxx in the statement of 
comprehensive income for the year. The carrying amount of the securities in the statement of 
financial position would have been reduced by the same amount at December 31, 20X1, and 
income tax, net income and shareholders’ equity would have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx, 
respectively.  
 
 
 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 710 - COMPARATIVE INFORMATION—
CORRESPONDING FIGURES AND COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
Appendix – 
Illustration 1 
Corresponding 
Figures (Ref: 
Para. A5) 
 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 2 
Corresponding 
Figures (Ref: 
Para. A5) 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 3 - 
Corresponding 
Figures (Ref: 
Para. A7) 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information 
 
Illustration 4 - 
Comparative 
Financial 
Statements 
(Ref: Para. A9) 
Report on the Financial Statements 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statemen ts of ABC Company, which comprise 
the statements of financial position as at December 31, 20X1 and 20X0, and the statements of 
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the 
years then ended, and a summary of sig nificant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
 
 No changes 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 800 - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS 
OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL 
PURPOSE FRAMEWORKS 
 
10 SLAuS 315 (Revised) requires the auditor to obtain an understanding of the entity’s selection 
and application of accounting policies. In the case of financial statements prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of a contract, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of an y 
significant interpretations of the contract that management made in the preparation of those 
financial statements. An interpretation is significant when adoption of another reasonable 
interpretation would have produced a material difference in the inform ation presented in the 
financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 29A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
1. SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 805 - SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—
AUDITS OF SINGLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SPECIFIC 
ELEMENTS, ACCOUNTS OR ITEMS OF A FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 
4 This SLAuS  is effective for audits of single financial statements or of specific elements, 
accounts or items for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014 . In the case of audits of 
single financial statements or of specific elements, accounts or items of a financial statement 
prepared as at a specific date, this SLAuS is effective for audits of such information prepared 
as at a date on or after 01 January 2014. 
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 810 - ENGAGEMENTS TO REPORT ON 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 3 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS  
 
[Appropriate Addressee]  
The accompanying summary financial statements, which comprise the summary statement of 
financial position as at December 31, 20X1, the summary statement of comprehensive income, 
summary statement of changes in equity and summary statement of cash flows for the year 
then ended, and related notes, are derived from the audited financial statements of ABC 
Company for the year ended December 31, 20X1. 
 
 
Appendix - 
Illustration 3 
Opinion  
 
The misstatement of the audited financial statements is described in our qualified audit opinion 
in our report dated February 15, 20X2. Our qualified audit opinion is based on the fact that the 
company’s inventories are carried in the statement of financia l position  in those financial 
statements at xxx. Management has not stated the inventories at the lower of cost and net 
realizable value but has stated them solely at cost, which constitutes a departure from Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards. The company’s re cords indicate that had management stated the 
inventories at the lower of cost and net realizable value, an amount of xxx would have been 
required to write the inventories down to their net realizable value. Accordingly, cost of sales 
would have been increased by xxx, and income tax, net income and shareholders’ equity would 
have been reduced by xxx, xxx and xxx, respectively. Our qualified audit opinion states that, 
except for the effects of the described matter, those financial statements present fairly, in all 
material respects, (or give a true and fair view of ) the financial position of ABC Company as 
at December 31, 20X1, and ( of) its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then 
ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 315 (REVISED) 
 
AUDITING 
IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT 
THROUGH UNDERSTANDING THE ENTITY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT 
 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2015) 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Paragraph  
Introduction  
Scope of this SLAuS ....................................................................................................  1   
Effective Date .............................................................................................................. 2  
Objective ..................................................................................................................... 3  
Definitions ...................................................................................................................  4  
Requirements  
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities ...................................................  5–10  
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its  
Environment, Including the Entity’s Internal Control ……………………................. 11–24  
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material  
Misstatement  …………………………..……………………………….…..     25–31  
Documentation ............................................................................................................  32  
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities .................................................  A1–A23  
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its  
Environment, Including the Entity’s Internal Control     ………………………......  A24–A117  
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material  
Misstatement …………………………………………………………………..… A118–A143  
Documentation ...................................................................................................... A144–A147  
Appendix 1: Internal Control Components  
Appendix 2: Conditions and Events That May Indicate Risks of Material Misstatement  
 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material 
Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment , should be read in conjunction with 
SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Audito r and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. AUDITING  
 
 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 31A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
Introduction  
 
Scope of this SLAuS  
 
1. This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS ) deals with the auditor’s responsibility to identify and assess 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, through understanding the entity and its 
environment, including the entity’s internal control.  
 
Effective Date  
 
2. This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 
2015.  
 
Objective  
 
3.  The objective of the auditor is to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, at the financial statement and assertion levels, through understanding the entity and its 
environment, including the entity’s internal control, thereby providing a basis for designing and 
implementing responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement.  
 
Definitions  
 
4.  For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:  
 
(a)  Assertions – Representations by management, explicit or otherwise, that are embodied in the financial 
statements, as used by the auditor to consider the different types of potential misstatements that may 
occur.  
 
(b)  Business risk – A risk resulting from significant conditions, events, circumstances, actions or inactions 
that could adversely affect an entity’s ability to achieve its objectives and execute its strategies, or 
from the setting of inappropriate objectives and strategies.  
 
(c) Internal contro l – The process designed, implemented and maintained by those charged with 
governance, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance about the achievement 
of an entity’s objectives with regard to reliability of financial reporting, effecti veness and efficiency 
of operations, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The term “controls” refers to any 
aspects of one or more of the components of internal control.  
 
(d)  Risk assessment procedures – The audit procedures performed to obtain an understanding of the entity 
and its environment, including the entity’s internal control, to identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, at the financial statement and assertion levels.  
 
(e)  Significant risk – An identified and assessed risk of material misstatement that, in the auditor’s 
judgment, requires special audit consideration.  
 
Requirements  
 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities  
 
5.  The auditor shall perform risk assessment procedures to provide a basis for the identification and 
assessment of risks of material misstatement at the financial statement and assertion levels. Risk 
assessment procedures by themselves, however, do not provi de sufficient appropriate audit evidence on 
which to base the audit opinion. (Ref: Para. A1–A5)  
 
6.  The risk assessment procedures shall include the following:  
 
(a)  Inquiries of management, of appropriate individuals within the internal audit function (if the function 
exists), and of others within the entity who in the auditor’s judgment may have information that is 
likely to assist in identifying risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error. (Ref: Para. A6–A13)  
 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(b) Analytical procedures. (Ref: Para. A14–A17)  
 
(c) Observation and inspection. (Ref: Para. A18)  
 
7.  The auditor shall consider whether information obtained from the auditor’s client acceptance or 
continuance process is relevant to identifying risks of material misstatement.  
 
8.  If the engagement partner has performed other engagements for the entity, the engagement partner shall 
consider whether information obtained is relevant to identifying risks of material misstatement.  
 
9.  Where the auditor intends to use information obtai ned from the auditor’s previous experience with the 
entity and from audit procedures performed in previous audits, the auditor shall determine whether changes 
have occurred since the previous audit that may affect its relevance to the current audit. (Ref: Para. A19–
A20)  
 
10. The engagement partner and other key engagement team members shall discuss the susceptibility of the 
entity’s financial statements to material misstatement, and the application of the applicable financial 
reporting framework to the entity’s facts and circumstances. The engagement partner shall determine which 
matters are to be communicated to engagement team members not involved in the discussion. (Ref: Para. 
A21–A23)  
 
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment, Including the Entity’s Internal 
Control 
 
The Entity and Its Environment  
 
11. The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the following:  
 
(a)  Relevant industry, regulatory, and other external factors including the applicable financial reporting 
framework. (Ref: Para. A24–A29)  
 
(b)  The nature of the entity, including:  
 
(i)  its operations;  
 
(ii)  its ownership and governance structures;  
 
(iii)  the types of investments that the entity is making and plans to make, including investments in 
special-purpose entities; and  
 
(iv)  the way that the entity is structured and how it is financed,  
 
to enable the auditor to understand the classes of transactions, account balances, and disclosures to be 
expected in the financial statements. (Ref: Para. A30–A34)  
 
(c)  The entity’s selection and application of accounting policies, including the reasons for changes thereto. 
The auditor shall evaluate whether the entity’s accounting policies are appropriate for its business and 
consistent with the applicable financial reporting framework and accounting policies used in the 
relevant industry. (Ref: Para. A35)  
 
(d)  The entity’s objectives and strategies, and those related business risks that may result in risks of 
material misstatement. (Ref: Para. A36–A42)  
 
(e)  The measurement and review of the entity’s financial performance. (Ref: Para. A43 –A48)  
 
 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 33A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
The Entity’s Internal Control  
 
12.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit. Although most controls 
relevant to the audit are likely to relate to financial reporting, not all controls that relate to financial 
reporting are relevant to the audit. It is a matter of the auditor’s professional judgment whether a control, 
individually or in combination with others, is relevant to the audit. (Ref: Para. A49 –A72)  
 
Nature and Extent of the Understanding of Relevant Controls  
 
13. When obtaining an understanding of controls that are relevant to the audit, the auditor shall evaluate the 
design of those controls and determine whether they have been implemented, by performing procedures in 
addition to inquiry of the entity’s personnel. (Ref: Para. A73–A75)  
 
Components of Internal Control  
 
Control environment  
 
14.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the control environment. As part of obtaining this 
understanding, the auditor shall evaluate whether:  
 
(a)  Management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, has created and maintained a 
culture of honesty and ethical behavior; and  
 
(b)  The strengths in the control environment elements collectively provide an appropriate foundation for 
the other components of internal control, and whether those other components are not undermined by 
deficiencies in the control environment. (Ref: Para. A76–A86)  
 
The entity’s risk assessment process  
 
15.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of whether the entity has a process for:  
 
(a)  Identifying business risks relevant to financial reporting objectives;  
 
(b)  Estimating the significance of the risks;  
 
(c)  Assessing the likelihood of their occurrence; and  
 
(d)  Deciding about actions to address those risks. (Ref: Para. A87)  
 
16.  If the entity has established such a process (referred to hereafter as the “entity’s risk assessment process”), 
the auditor shall obtain an understanding of it, and the results thereof. If the auditor identifies risks of 
material misstatement that management failed to identify, the auditor shall evaluate whether there was an 
underlying risk of a kind that the auditor expects would have been identified by the entity’s risk assessment 
process. If there is such a risk, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of why that process failed to 
identify it, and evaluate whether the process is  appropriate to its circumstances or determine if there is a 
significant deficiency in internal control with regard to the entity’s risk assessment process.  
 
17.  If the entity has not established such a process or has an ad hoc process, the auditor shall discuss with 
management whether business risks relevant to financial reporting objectives have been identified and how 
they have been addressed. The auditor shall evaluate whether the absence of a documented risk assessment 
process is appropriate in the circumstances, or determine whether it represents a significant deficiency in 
internal control. (Ref: Para. A88)  
 
The information system, including the related busi ness processes, relevant to financial reporting, and 
communication 
 
18.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the information system, including the related business 
processes, relevant to financial reporting, including the following areas:  
 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(a)  The classes of transactions in the entity’s operations that are significant to the financial statements;  
 
(b)  The procedures, within both information technology (IT) and manual systems, by which those 
transactions are initiated, recorded, processed, corrected as necessary, transferred to the general ledger 
and reported in the financial statements;  
 
(c)  The related accounting records, supporting information and specific accounts in the financial 
statements that are used to initiate, record, process and report transactions; this includes the correction 
of incorrect information and how information is transferred to the general ledger. The records may be 
in either manual or electronic form;  
 
(d)  How the information system captures events and conditions, ot her than transactions, that are 
significant to the financial statements;    
(e)  The financial reporting process used to prepare the entity’s financial statements, including significant 
accounting estimates and disclosures; and  
 
(f)  Controls surrounding journal entries, including non -standard journal entries used to record non -
recurring, unusual transactions or adjustments. (Ref: Para. A89–A93)  
 
19.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of how the entity communicates financial reporting roles and 
responsibilities and significant matters relating to financial reporting, including: (Ref: Para. A94 –A95)  
 
(a)  Communications between management and those charged with governance; and  
 
(b) External communications, such as those with regulatory authorities.  
 
Control activities relevant to the audit  
 
20.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of control activities relevant to the audit, being those the auditor 
judges it necessary to understand in order to assess the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level 
and design further audit procedures responsive to assessed risks. An audit does not require an 
understanding of all the control activities related to each significant class of transactions, account balance, 
and disclosure in the financial statements or to every assertion relevant to them. (Ref: Para. A96 –A102)  
 
21.  In understanding the entity’s control activities, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of how the entity  
has responded to risks arising from IT. (Ref: Para. A103–A105)  
 
Monitoring of controls  
 
22.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the major activities that the entity uses to monitor internal 
control relevant to financial reporting, including th ose related to those control activities relevant to the 
audit, and how the entity initiates remedial actions to deficiencies in its controls. (Ref: Para. A106 –A108)  
 
23.  If the entity has an internal audit function, 1 the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the nature of the 
internal audit function’s responsibilities, its organizational status, and the activities performed, or to be 
performed. (Ref: Para. A109–A116)  
 
24.  The auditor shall obtain an understanding of the sources of the information used in the entity’s monitoring 
activities, and the basis upon which management considers the information to be sufficiently reliable for 
the purpose. (Ref: Para. A117)  
 
                                                           
1 SLAuS 610 (Revised), Using the Work of Internal Auditors, paragraph 12, defines the term “internal audit function” for purposes of the SLAuSs.  

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 35A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement  
 
25.  The auditor shall identify and assess the risks of material misstatement at:  
 
(a)  the financial statement level; and (Ref: Para. A118–A121)  
 
(b)  the assertion level for classes of transactions, account balances, and discl osures, (Ref: Para. A122–
A126) to provide a basis for designing and performing further audit procedures.  
 
26.  For this purpose, the auditor shall:  
 
(a) Identify risks throughout the process of obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, 
including relevant controls that relate to the risks, and by considering the classes of transactions, 
account balances, and disclosures in the financial statements; (Ref: Para. A127–A128)  
 
(b)  Assess the identified risks, and evaluate whether they relate more pervasively to the financial 
statements as a whole and potentially affect many assertions;  
 
(c) Relate the identified risks to what can go wrong at the assertion level, taking account of relevant 
controls that the auditor intends to test; and (Ref: Para. A129–A131)   
(d)  Consider the likelihood of misstatement, including the possibility of multiple misstatements, and 
whether the potential misstatement is of a magnitude that could result in a material misstatement.  
 
Risks that Require Special Audit Consideration  
 
27.  As part of the risk assessment as described in paragraph 25, the auditor shall determine whether any of the 
risks identified are, in the auditor’s judgment, a significant risk. In exercising this judgment, the auditor 
shall exclude the effects of identified controls related to the risk.  
 
28.  In exercising judgment as to which risks are significant risks, the auditor shall consider at least the 
following:  
 
(a)  Whether the risk is a risk of fraud;  
 
(b)  Whether the risk is related to recent significant econ omic, accounting or other developments and, 
therefore, requires specific attention;  
 
(c)  The complexity of transactions;  
 
(d)  Whether the risk involves significant transactions with related parties;  
 
(e)  The degree of subjectivity in the measurement of financial information related to the risk, especially 
those measurements involving a wide range of measurement uncertainty; and  
 
(f)  Whether the risk involves significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business for 
the entity, or that otherwise appear to be unusual. (Ref: Para. A132–A136)  
 
29.  If the auditor has determined that a significant risk exists, the auditor shall obtain an understanding of the 
entity’s controls, including control activities, relevant to that risk. (Ref: Para. A137–A139)  
 
Risks for Which Substantive Procedures Alone Do Not Provide Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence  
 
30.  In respect of some risks, the auditor may judge that it is not possible or practicable to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence only from substantive procedures. Such risks may relate to the inaccurate or 
incomplete recording of routine and significant classes of transactions or account balances, the 
characteristics of which often permit highly automated processing with little or no manual intervention. In 
such cases, the entity’s controls over such risks are relevant to the audit and the auditor shall obtain an 
understanding of them. (Ref: Para. A140–A142)  

<!-- page 36 -->

36A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 
Revision of Risk Assessment 
 
31.  The auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level may change during the 
course of the audit as additional audit evidence is obtained. In circumstances where the auditor obtains 
audit evidence from performing further audit procedures, or if new information is obtained, either of which 
is inconsistent with the audit evidence on which the auditor originally based the assessment, the auditor 
shall revise the assessment and modify the further planned audit procedures accordingly. (Ref: Para. A143)  
 
Documentation  
 
32.  The auditor shall include in the audit documentation:2 
 
(a) The discussion among the engagement team where required by paragraph 10, and the significant 
decisions reached;  
 
(b)  Key elements of the understanding obtained regarding each of the aspects of the entity and its 
environment specified in paragraph 11 and of each of the internal control components specified in 
paragraphs 14–24; the sources of information from which the und erstanding was obtained; and the 
risk assessment procedures performed;  
 
(c)  The identified and assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level and at the 
assertion level as required by paragraph 25; and  
 
(d)  The risks identified, and related controls about which the auditor has obtained an understanding, as a 
result of the requirements in paragraphs 27–30. (Ref: Para. A144–A147)  
 
*** 
 
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
 
Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities (Ref: Para. 5)  
 
A1.  Obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including the entity’s internal control 
(referred to hereafter as an “understanding of the entity”), is a continuous, dynamic process of gathering, 
updating and analyzing information throughout the audit. The understanding establishes a frame of 
reference within which the auditor plans the audit and exercises professional judgment throughout the 
audit, for example, when:  
 
 Assessing risks of material misstatement of the financial statements; 
 
 Determining materiality in accordance with SLAuS 320;3  
 
 Considering the appropriateness of the selection and application of accounting policies, and the 
adequacy of financial statement disclosures;  
 
 Identifying areas where special audit consideration may be  necessary, for example, related party 
transactions, the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption, or 
considering the business purpose of transactions;  
 
 Developing expectations for use when performing analytical procedures;  
 
                                                           
2   SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation, paragraphs 8–11, and A6  
3  SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 37A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 Responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement, including designing and performing further 
audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence; and  
 
 Evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of audit evidence obtained, such as the appropriateness 
of assumptions and of management’s oral and written representations.  
 
A2.  Information obtained by performing risk assessment procedures and related act ivities may be used by the 
auditor as audit evidence to support assessments of the risks of material misstatement. In addition, the 
auditor may obtain audit evidence about classes of transactions, account balances, or disclosures, and 
related assertions, and about the operating effectiveness of controls, even though such procedures were not 
specifically planned as substantive procedures or as tests of controls. The auditor also may choose to 
perform substantive procedures or tests of controls concurrently w ith risk assessment procedures because 
it is efficient to do so.  
 
A3.  The auditor uses professional judgment to determine the extent of the understanding required. The auditor’s 
primary consideration is whether the understanding that has been obtained is  sufficient to meet the 
objective stated in this SLAuS. The depth of the overall understanding that is required by the auditor is 
less than that possessed by management in managing the entity.  
 
A4.  The risks to be assessed include both those due to error  and those due to fraud, and both are covered by 
this SLAuS. However, the significance of fraud is such that further requirements and guidance are included 
in SLAuS 240 in relation to risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain information that is 
used to identify the risks of material misstatement due to fraud.4  
 
A5.  Although the auditor is required to perform all the risk assessment procedures described in paragraph 6 in 
the course of obtaining the required understanding of the entity (s ee paragraphs 11–24), the auditor is not 
required to perform all of them for each aspect of that understanding. Other procedures may be performed 
where the information to be obtained therefrom may be helpful in identifying risks of material 
misstatement. Examples of such procedures include:  
 
 Reviewing information obtained from external sources such as trade and economic journals; reports 
by analysts, banks, or rating agencies; or regulatory or financial publications.  
 
 Making inquiries of the entity’s external legal counsel or of valuation experts that the entity has used.  
 
Inquiries of Management, the Internal Audit Function and Others within the Entity (Ref: Para. 6(a))  
 
A6.  Much of the information obtained by the auditor’s inquiries is obtained from management and those 
responsible for financial reporting. Information may also be obtained by the auditor through inquiries with 
the internal audit function, if the entity has such a function, and others within the entity.  
 
A7.  The auditor may also obtain information, or a different perspective in identifying risks of material 
misstatement, through inquiries of others within the entity and other employees with different levels of  
authority. For example:  
 
 Inquiries directed towards those charged with governance may help the auditor understand the 
environment in which the financial statements are prepared. SLAuS 260 5 identifies the importance of 
effective two-way communication in a ssisting the auditor to obtain information from those charged 
with governance in this regard.  
 
 Inquiries of employees involved in initiating, processing or recording complex or unusual transactions 
may help the auditor to evaluate the appropriateness of the selection and application of certain 
accounting policies.  
                                                           
4  SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraphs 12-24 
 
5  SLAuS 260, Communication with Those Charged with Governance, paragraph 4(b) 

<!-- page 38 -->

38A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 Inquiries directed toward in -house legal counsel may provide information about such matters as 
litigation, compliance with laws and regulations, knowledge of fraud or suspected fraud affecting the 
entity, warranties, post-sales obligations, arrangements (such as joint ventures) with business partners 
and the meaning of contract terms.  
 
 Inquiries directed towards marketing or sales personnel may provide information about changes in the 
entity’s marketing strategies, sales trends, or contractual arrangements with its customers.  
 
 Inquiries di rected to the risk management function (or those performing such roles) may provide 
information about operational and regulatory risks that may affect financial reporting.  
 
 Inquiries directed to information systems personnel may provide information about s ystem changes, 
system or control failures, or other information system-related risks.  
 
A8.  As obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment is a continual, dynamic process, the 
auditor’s inquiries may occur throughout the audit engagement.  
 
Inquiries of the Internal Audit Function  
 
A9.  If an entity has an internal audit function, inquiries of the appropriate individuals within the function may 
provide information that is useful to the auditor in obtaining an understanding of the entity and its 
environment, and in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement at the financial statement and 
assertion levels. In performing its work, the internal audit function is likely to have obtained insight into 
the entity’s operations and bu siness risks, and may have findings based on its work, such as identified 
control deficiencies or risks, that may provide valuable input into the auditor’s understanding of the entity, 
the auditor’s risk assessments or other aspects of the audit. The audit or’s inquiries are therefore made 
whether or not the auditor expects to use the work of the internal audit function to modify the nature or 
timing, or reduce the extent, of audit procedures to be performed.6 Inquiries of particular relevance may be 
about matters the internal audit function has raised with those charged with governance and the outcomes 
of the function’s own risk assessment process.  
 
A10. If, based on responses to the auditor’s inquiries, it appears that there are findings that may be releva nt to 
the entity’s financial reporting and the audit, the auditor may consider it appropriate to read related reports 
of the internal audit function. Examples of reports of the internal audit function that may be relevant 
include the function’s strategy an d planning documents and reports that have been prepared for 
management or those charged with governance describing the findings of the internal audit function’s 
examinations.  
 
A11. In addition, in accordance with SLAuS 240, 7 if the internal audit functio n provides information to the 
auditor regarding any actual, suspected or alleged fraud, the auditor takes this into account in the auditor’s 
identification of risk of material misstatement due to fraud.  
 
A12. Appropriate individuals within the internal audit function with whom inquiries are made are those who, 
in the auditor’s judgment, have the appropriate knowledge, experience and authority, such as the chief 
internal audit executive or, depending on the circ umstances, other personnel within the function. The 
auditor may also consider it appropriate to have periodic meetings with these individuals.  
 
 
 
                                                           
6  The relevant requirements are contained in SLAuS 610 (Revised). 
7  SLAuS 240, paragraph 19 

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 39A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
Considerations specific to public sector entities (Ref: Para 6(a))  
 
A13. Auditors of public sector entities often have additional responsibilities with regard to internal control and 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Inquiries of appropriate individuals in the internal audit 
function can assist the auditors in identifying the risk of material noncompliance with applicable laws and 
regulations and the risk of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting.  
 
Analytical Procedures (Ref: Para. 6(b))  
 
A14. Analytical procedures performed as risk assessment procedures may identify aspects of the entity of which 
the auditor was unaware and may assist in assessing the risks of material misstatement in order to provide 
a basis for designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks. Analytical procedures performed 
as risk assessment procedures may include both financial and non-financial information, for example, the 
relationship between sales and square footage of selling space or volume of goods sold.  
 
A15. Analytical procedures may help identify the existence of unusual transactions or events, and amounts, 
ratios, and trends that might indicate matters that have audit implications. Unusual or unexpected 
relationships that are identified may assist the a uditor in identifying risks of material misstatement, 
especially risks of material misstatement due to fraud.  
 
A16.  However, when such analytical procedures use data aggregated at a high level (which may be the situation 
with analytical procedures perfor med as risk assessment procedures), the results of those analytical 
procedures only provide a broad initial indication about whether a material misstatement may exist. 
Accordingly, in such cases, consideration of other information that has been gathered wh en identifying 
the risks of material misstatement together with the results of such analytical procedures may assist the 
auditor in understanding and evaluating the results of the analytical procedures.  
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities  
 
A17.  Some smaller entities may not have interim or monthly financial information that can be used for purposes 
of analytical procedures. In these circumstances, although the auditor may be able to perform limited 
analytical procedures for purposes of planning the audit or obtain some information through inquiry, the 
auditor may need to plan to perform analytical procedures to identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement when an early draft of the entity’s financial statements is available.  
 
Observation and Inspection (Ref: Para. 6(c))  
 
A18. Observation and inspection may support inquiries of management and others, and may also provide 
information about the entity and its environment. Examples of such audit procedures include observation 
or inspection of the following:  
 
 The entity’s operations.  
 
 Documents (such as business plans and strategies), records, and internal control manuals.  
 
 Reports prepared by management (such as quarterly management reports and interim financial 
statements) and those charged with governance (such as minutes of board of directors’ meetings).  
 
 The entity’s premises and plant facilities.  
 
Information Obtained in Prior Periods (Ref: Para. 9)  
 
A19.  The auditor’s previous experience with the entity and audit procedures performed in previous audits may 
provide the auditor with information about such matters as:  
 
 Past misstatements and whether they were corrected on a timely basis.  
 
 The nature of the entity and its environment, and the entity’s internal control (including deficiencies 
in internal control).  

<!-- page 40 -->

40A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 
 Significant changes that the entity or its operations may have undergone since the prior financial 
period, which may assist the auditor in gaining a sufficient understanding of the entity to identify and 
assess risks of material misstatement.  
 
A20. The auditor is required to determine whether information obtained in prior periods remains relevant, if 
the auditor intends to use that information for the purposes of the current audit. This is because changes 
in the control environment, for example, may affect the relevance of information obtained in the prior 
year. To determine whether changes have occurred that may affect the relevance of such information, the 
auditor may make inquiries and perform other appropriate audit procedures, such as walk -throughs of 
relevant systems.  
 
Discussion among the Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 10) 
 
A21. The discussion among the engagement team about the susceptibility of the entity’s financial statements 
to material misstatement:  
 
 Provides an opportunity for more experienced engagement team members, including the engagement 
partner, to share their insights based on their knowledge of the entity.  
 
 Allows the engagement team members to exchange information about the business risks to which the 
entity is subject and about how and where the financial statements might be susceptible to material 
misstatement due to fraud or error.  
 
 Assists the engagement team members to gain a better understanding of the potential for material 
misstatement of the financial statements in the specific areas assigned to them, and to understand how 
the results of the audit procedures that they perform may affect other aspects of the audit including the 
decisions about the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.  
 
 Provides a basis upon which engagement team members communicate and share new information 
obtained throughout the audit that may affect the assessment of risks of material misstatement or the 
audit procedures performed to address these risks.  
 
SLAuS 240 provides further requirements and guidance in relation to the discussion among the 
engagement team about the risks of fraud.8 
 
A22. It is not always necessary or practical for the discussion to include all members in a single discussion (as, 
for example, in a multi-location audit), nor is it necessary for all of the members of the engagement team 
to be informed of all of the decis ions reached in the discussion. The engagement partner may discuss 
matters with key members of the engagement team including, if considered appropriate, those with 
specific skills or knowledge, and those responsible for the audits of components, while dele gating 
discussion with others, taking account of the extent of communication considered necessary throughout 
the engagement team. A communications plan, agreed by the engagement partner, may be useful.  
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities  
 
A23.  Many small audits are carried out entirely by the engagement partner (who may be a sole practitioner). In 
such situations, it is the engagement partner who, having personally conducted the planning of the audit, 
would be responsible for considering the sus ceptibility of the entity’s financial statements to material 
misstatement due to fraud or error.  
 
                                                           
8  SLAuS 240, paragraph 15 

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 41A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
The Required Understanding of the Entity and Its Environment, Including the Entity’s Internal 
Control 
 
The Entity and Its Environment 
 
Industry, Regulatory and Other External Factors (Ref: Para. 11(a))  
 
Industry Factors  
 
A24. Relevant industry factors include industry conditions such as the competitive environment, supplier and 
customer relationships, and technological developments. Exa mples of matters the auditor may consider 
include:  
 
 The market and competition, including demand, capacity, and price competition.  
 
 Cyclical or seasonal activity.  
 
 Product technology relating to the entity’s products.  
 
 Energy supply and cost.  
 
A25.  The industry in which the entity operates may give rise to specific risks of material misstatement arising 
from the nature of the business or the degree of regulation. For example, long-term contracts may involve 
significant estimates of revenues and expen ses that give rise to risks of material misstatement. In such 
cases, it is important that the engagement team include members with sufficient relevant knowledge and 
experience.9  
 
Regulatory Factors  
 
A26. Relevant regulatory factors include the regulatory  environment. The regulatory environment 
encompasses, among other matters, the applicable financial reporting framework and the legal and 
political environment. Examples of matters the auditor may consider include:  
 
 Accounting principles and industry-specific practices.  
 
 Regulatory framework for a regulated industry.  
 
 Legislation and regulation that significantly affect the entity’s operations, including direct supervisory 
activities.  
 
 Taxation (corporate and other).  
 
 Government policies currently affecting the conduct of the entity’s business, such as monetary, 
including foreign exchange controls, fiscal, financial incentives (for example, government aid 
programs), and tariffs or trade restrictions policies.  
 
 Environmental requirements affecting the industry and the entity’s business.  
 
A27.  SLAuS 250 includes some specific requirements related to the legal and regulatory framework applicable 
to the entity and the industry or sector in which the entity operates.10  
 
Considerations specific to public sector entities  
 
A28.  For the audits of public sector entities, law, regulation or other authority may affect the entity’s operations. 
Such elements are essential to consider when obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment.  
 
                                                           
9   SLAuS 220, Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph 14  
10  SLAuS 250, Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph 12  

<!-- page 42 -->

42A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 
 Other External Factors  
 
A29.  Examples of other external factors affecting the entity that the auditor may consider include the general 
economic conditions, interest rates and availability of financing, and inflation or currency revaluation.  
 
Nature of the Entity (Ref: Para. 11(b))  
 
A30.  An understanding of the nature of an entity enables the auditor to understand such matters as:  
 
 Whether the entity has a complex structure, for example, with subsidiaries or other components in 
multiple locations. Complex structures often introduce issues that may give rise to risks of material 
misstatement. Such issues may include whether goodwill, joint ventures, investments, or special -
purpose entities are accounted for appropriately.  
 
 The ownership, and relations between owners and other people or entities. This understanding assists 
in determining whether related party transactions have been identified and accounted for appropriately. 
SLAuS 55011 establishes requirements and provides guidance on the auditor’s considerations relevant 
to related parties.  
 
A31.  Examples of matters that the auditor may consider when obtaining an understanding of the  nature of the 
entity include:  
 
 Business operations such as:  
 
o Nature of revenue sources, products or services, and markets, including involvement in electronic 
commerce such as Internet sales and marketing activities.  
 
o Conduct of operations (for example, stages and methods of production, or activities exposed to 
environmental risks). 
 
o Alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing activities.  
 
o Geographic dispersion and industry segmentation.  
 
o Location of production facilities, warehouses, and office s, and location and quantities of 
inventories.  
 
o Key customers and important suppliers of goods and services, employment arrangements 
(including the existence of union contracts, pension and other post - employment benefits, stock 
option or incentive bonus arrangements, and government regulation related to employment 
matters).  
 
o Research and development activities and expenditures.  
 
o Transactions with related parties.  
 
 Investments and investment activities such as:  
 
o Planned or recently executed acquisitions or divestitures.  
 
o Investments and dispositions of securities and loans.  
 
o Capital investment activities.  
                                                           
11  SLAuS 550, Related Parties  
 

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 43A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
o Investments in non -consolidated entities, including partnerships, joint ventures and special -
purpose entities.  
 
 Financing and financing activities such as:  
 
○  Major subsidiaries and associated entities, including consolidated and non -consolidated 
structures.  
 
○  Debt structure and related terms, including off-balance-sheet financing arrangements and leasing 
arrangements.  
 
○  Beneficial owners (local, foreign, business reputation and experience) and related parties.  
 
○  Use of derivative financial instruments.  
 
 Financial reporting such as:  
 
○  Accounting principles and industry -specific practices, including industry -specific significant 
categories (for example, loans and investments for banks, or research and development for 
pharmaceuticals).  
 
○  Revenue recognition practices.  
 
○  Accounting for fair values.  
 
○  Foreign currency assets, liabilities and transactions.  
 
○  Accounting for unusual or complex transactions including those in controversial or emerging 
areas (for example, accounting for stock-based compensation).  
 
A32. Significant changes in the entity from prior periods may give rise to, or change, risks of material 
misstatement.  
 
Nature of Special-Purpose Entities  
 
A33.  A special-purpose entity (sometimes referred to as a special-purpose vehicle) is an entity that is generally 
established for a narrow and well-defined purpose, such as to effect a lease or a securitization of financial 
assets, or to carry out research and development activities. It may take the form of a corporation, trust, 
partnership or unincorporated entity. The entity on behalf of which the special -purpose entity has been 
created may often transfer assets to the latter (for example, as part of a derecognition transaction involving 
financial assets), obtain the right to use the latter’s assets, or perform services for the latter, while other 
parties may provide the funding to the latter. As SLAuS 550 indicates, in some circumstances, a special -
purpose entity may be a related party of the entity.12 
 
A34.  Financial reporting frameworks often specify detailed conditions that are deemed to amount to control, 
or circumstances under which the special -purpose entity should be considered for consolidation. The 
interpretation of the requirements of such frameworks often demands a detailed knowledge of the relevant 
agreements involving the special-purpose entity.  
 
The Entity’s Selection and Application of Accounting Policies (Ref: Para. 11(c))  
 
A35.  An understanding of the entity’s selection and application of ac counting policies may encompass such 
matters as:  
 
 The methods the entity uses to account for significant and unusual transactions.  
 
                                                           
12  SLAuS 550, paragraph A7  

<!-- page 44 -->

44A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 The effect of significant accounting policies in controversial or emerging areas for which there is a 
lack of authoritative guidance or consensus.  
 
 Changes in the entity’s accounting policies.  
 
 Financial reporting standards and laws and regulations that are new to the entity and when and how 
the entity will adopt such requirements.  
 
Objectives and Strategies and Related Business Risks (Ref: Para. 11(d)) 
 
A36.  The entity conducts its business in the context of industry, regulatory and other internal and external 
factors. To respond to these factors, the entity’s management or those charged with governance define 
objectives, which are the overall plans for the entity. Strategies are the approaches by which management 
intends to achieve its objectives. The entity’s objectives and strategies may change over time.  
 
A37.  Business risk is broader than the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements, though it 
includes the latter. Business risk may arise from change or complexity. A failure to recognize the need 
for change may also give rise to business risk. Business risk may arise, for example, from:  
 
 The development of new products or services that may fail;  
 
 A market which, even if successfully developed, is inadequate to support a product or service; or  
 
 Flaws in a product or service that may result in liabilities and reputational risk.  
 
A38.  An understanding of the business risks facing the entity increases the likelihood of identifying risks of 
material misstatement, since most business risks will even tually have financial consequences and, 
therefore, an effect on the financial statements. However, the auditor does not have a responsibility to 
identify or assess all business risks because not all business risks give rise to risks of material 
misstatement.  
 
A39.  Examples of matters that the auditor may consider when obtaining an understanding of the entity’s 
objectives, strategies and related business risks that may result in a risk of material misstatement of the 
financial statements include:  
 
 Industry developments (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that the entity does 
not have the personnel or expertise to deal with the changes in the industry).  
 
 New products and services (a potential related business risk might be, for  example, that there is 
increased product liability).  
 
 Expansion of the business (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that the demand 
has not been accurately estimated).  
 
 New accounting requirements (a potential related business risk might be, for example, incomplete or 
improper implementation, or increased costs).  
 
 Regulatory requirements (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that there is 
increased legal exposure).  
 
 Current and prospective financing requirement s (a potential related business risk might be, for 
example, the loss of financing due to the entity’s inability to meet requirements).  
 
 Use of IT (a potential related business risk might be, for example, that systems and processes are 
incompatible).  
 

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 45A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 The effects of implementing a strategy, particularly any effects that will lead to new accounting 
requirements (a potential related business risk might be, for example, incomplete or improper 
implementation).  
 
A40.  A business risk may have an immediate consequence for the risk of material misstatement for classes of 
transactions, account balances, and disclosures at the assertion level or the financial statement level. For 
example, the business risk arising from a co ntracting customer base may increase the risk of material 
misstatement associated with the valuation of receivables. However, the same risk, particularly in 
combination with a contracting economy, may also have a longer -term consequence, which the auditor 
considers when assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption. Whether a business risk 
may result in a risk of material misstatement is, therefore, considered in light of the entity’s circumstances. 
Examples of conditions and events that may  indicate risks of material misstatement are indicated in 
Appendix 2.  
 
A41.  Usually, management identifies business risks and develops approaches to address them. Such a risk 
assessment process is part of internal control and is discussed in paragraph 15 and paragraphs A87–A88.  
 
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities  
 
A42.  For the audits of public sector entities, “management objectives” may be influenced by concerns regarding 
public accountability and may include objectives which have their  source in law, regulation or other 
authority.  
 
Measurement and Review of the Entity’s Financial Performance (Ref: Para. 11(e))  
 
A43.  Management and others will measure and review those things they regard as important. Performance 
measures, whether external or internal, create pressures on the entity. These pressures, in turn, may 
motivate management to take action to improve the busines s performance or to misstate the financial 
statements. Accordingly, an understanding of the entity’s performance measures assists the auditor in 
considering whether pressures to achieve performance targets may result in management actions that 
increase the risks of material misstatement, including those due to fraud. See SLAuS 240 for requirements 
and guidance in relation to the risks of fraud.  
 
A44. The measurement and review of financial performance is not the same as the monitoring of controls 
(discussed as a component of internal control in paragraphs A106 -A117), though their purposes may 
overlap: 
 
 The measurement and review of performance is directed at whether business performance is meeting 
the objectives set by management (or third parties).  
 
 Monitoring of controls is specifically concerned with the effective operation of internal control.  
 
In some cases, however, performance indicators also provide information that enables management to 
identify deficiencies in internal control.  
 
A45. Examples of internally-generated information used by management for measuring and reviewing financial 
performance, and which the auditor may consider, include:  
 
 Key performance indicators (financial and non -financial) and key ratios, trends and operating 
statistics.  
 
 Period-on-period financial performance analyses.  
 
 Budgets, forecasts, variance analyses, segment information and divisional, departmental or other level 
performance reports.  
 

<!-- page 46 -->

46A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 Employee performance measures and incentive compensation policies.  
 
 Comparisons of an entity’s performance with that of competitors.  
 
A46.  External parties may also measure and review the entity’s financial performance. For example, external 
information such as analysts’ reports and credit rating agency reports may repre sent useful information 
for the auditor. Such reports can often be obtained from the entity being audited.  
 
A47.  Internal measures may highlight unexpected results or trends requiring management to determine their 
cause and take corrective action (including, in some cases, the detection and correction of misstatements 
on a timely basis). Performance measures may also  indicate to the auditor that risks of misstatement of 
related financial statement information do exist. For example, performance measures may indicate that 
the entity has unusually rapid growth or profitability when compared to that of other entities in t he same 
industry. Such information, particularly if combined with other factors such as performance-based bonus 
or incentive remuneration, may indicate the potential risk of management bias in the preparation of the 
financial statements.  
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities 
 
A48. Smaller entities often do not have processes to measure and review financial performance. Inquiry of 
management may reveal that it relies on certain key indicators for evaluating financial performance and 
taking appropriate action. If such inquiry indicates an absence of performance measurement or review, 
there may be an increased risk of misstatements not being detected and corrected.  
 
The Entity’s Internal Control (Ref: Para. 12)  
 
A49.  An understanding of internal control assists the auditor in identifying types of potential misstatements and 
factors that affect the risks of material misstatement, and in designing the nature, timing and extent of 
further audit procedures.  
 
A50.  The following application material on internal control is presented in four sections, as follows:  
 
 General Nature and Characteristics of Internal Control.  
 
 Controls Relevant to the Audit.  
 
 Nature and Extent of the Understanding of Relevant Controls.  
 
 Components of Internal Control.  
 
General Nature and Characteristics of Internal Control  
 
Purpose of Internal Control  
 
A51.  Internal control is designed, implemented and maintained to address identified business risks that threaten 
the achievement of any of the entity’s objectives that concern:  
 
 The reliability of the entity’s financial reporting;  
 
 The effectiveness and efficiency of its operations; and  
 
 Its compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  
 

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 47A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
The way in which internal control is designed, implemented and maintained varies with an entity’s size 
and complexity.  
 
Considerations specific to smaller entities  
 
A52.  Smaller entities may use less structured means and simpler processes and procedures to achieve their 
objectives.  
 
Limitations of Internal Control  
 
A53.  Internal control, no matter how effective, can pr ovide an entity with only reasonable assurance about 
achieving the entity’s financial reporting  objectives. The likelihood of their achievement is affected by 
the inherent limitations of internal control. These include the realities that human judgment in  decision-
making can be faulty and that breakdowns in internal control can occur because of human error. For 
example, there may be an error in the design of, or in the change to, a control. Equally, the operation of a 
control may not be effective, such as where information produced for the purposes of internal control (for 
example, an exception report) is not effectively used because the individual responsible for reviewing the 
information does not understand its purpose or fails to take appropriate action.   
 
A54.  Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the collusion of two or more people or inappropriate 
management override of internal control. For example, management may enter into side agreements with 
customers that alter the terms and conditions of the entity’s standard sales contracts, which may result in 
improper revenue recognition. Also, edit checks in a software program that are designed to identify and 
report transactions that exceed specified credit limits may be overridden or disabled.  
 
A55.  Further, in designing and implementing controls, management may make judgments on the nature and 
extent of the controls it chooses to implement, and the nature and extent of the risks it chooses to assume.  
 
Considerations specific to smaller entities  
 
A56. Smaller entities often have fewer employees which may limit the extent to which segregation of duties is 
practicable. However, in a small owner-managed entity, the owner-manager may be able to exercise more 
effective oversight than in a larger entity. This  oversight may compensate for the generally more limited 
opportunities for segregation of duties.  
 
A57.  On the other hand, the owner -manager may be more able to override controls because the system of 
internal control is less structured. This is taken in to account by the auditor when identifying the risks of 
material misstatement due to fraud.  
 
Division of Internal Control into Components  
 
A58.  The division of internal control into the following five components, for purposes of the SLAuSs, provides 
a useful framework for auditors to consider how different aspects of an entity’s internal control may affect 
the audit:  
 
(a)  The control environment;  
 
(b)  The entity’s risk assessment process;  
 
(c)  The information system, including the rel ated business processes, relevant to financial reporting, 
and communication;  
 
(d)  Control activities; and  
 
(e)  Monitoring of controls.  
 
The division does not necessarily reflect how an entity designs, implements and maintains internal 
control, or how it may classify any particular component. Auditors may use different terminology or 

<!-- page 48 -->

48A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
frameworks to describe the various aspects of internal co ntrol, and their effect on the audit than those 
used in this SLAuS, provided all the components described in this SLAuS are addressed.  
 
A59.Application material relating to the five components of internal control as they relate to a financial 
statement audit is set out in paragraphs A76 –A117 below. Appendix 1 provides further explanation of 
these components of internal control.  
 
Characteristics of Manual and Automated Elements of Internal Control Relevant to the Auditor’s Risk 
Assessment  
 
A60.  An entity’s system of internal control contains manual elements and often contains automated elements. 
The characteristics of manual or automated elements are relevant to the auditor’s risk assessment and 
further audit procedures based thereon.  
 
A61.  The use of manual or automated elements in internal control also affects the manner in which transactions 
are initiated, recorded, processed, and reported:  
 
 Controls in a manual system may include such procedures as approvals and reviews of transactions, 
and reconciliations and follow -up of reconciling items. Alternatively, an entity may use automated 
procedures to initiate, record, process, and report transac tions, in which case records in electronic 
format replace paper documents.  
 
 Controls in IT systems consist of a combination of automated controls (for example, controls 
embedded in computer programs) and manual controls. Further, manual controls may be independent 
of IT, may use information produced by IT, or may be limited to monitoring the effective functioning 
of IT and of automated controls, and to handling exceptions. When IT is used to initiate, record, 
process or report transactions, or other financial data for inclusion in financial statements, the systems 
and programs may include controls related to the corresponding assertions for material accounts or 
may be critical to the effective functioning of manual controls that depend on IT.  
 
An entity’s mix of manual and automated elements in internal control varies wi th the nature and 
complexity of the entity’s use of IT.  
 
A62.  Generally, IT benefits an entity’s internal control by enabling an entity to:  
 
 Consistently apply predefined business rules a nd perform complex calculations in processing large 
volumes of transactions or data;  
 
 Enhance the timeliness, availability, and accuracy of information;  
 
 Facilitate the additional analysis of information;  
 
 Enhance the ability to monitor the performance of the entity’s activities and its policies and 
procedures;  
 
 Reduce the risk that controls will be circumvented; and  
 
 Enhance the ability to achieve effective segregation of duties by implementing security c ontrols in 
applications, databases, and operating systems.  
 
A63.  IT also poses specific risks to an entity’s internal control, including, for example:  
 
 Reliance on systems or programs that are inaccurately processing data, processing inaccurate data, or 
both.  
 

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 49A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 Unauthorized access to data that may result in destruction of data or improper changes to data, 
including the recording of unauthorized or non -existent transactions, or inaccurate recording of 
transactions. Particular risks may arise where multiple users access a common database.  
 
 The possibility of IT personnel gaining access privileges beyond those necessary to perform their 
assigned duties thereby breaking down segregation of duties.  
 
 Unauthorized changes to data in master files.  
 
 Unauthorized changes to systems or programs.  
 
 Failure to make necessary changes to systems or programs.  
 
 Inappropriate manual intervention.  
 
 Potential loss of data or inability to access data as required.  
 
A64. Manual elements in internal control may be more suitable where judgment and discretion are required 
such as for the following circumstances:  
 
 Large, unusual or non-recurring transactions.  
 
 Circumstances where errors are difficult to define, anticipate or predict.  
 
 In changing circumstances that require a control response outside the scope of an existing automated 
control.  
 
 In monitoring the effectiveness of automated controls.  
 
A65. Manual elements in internal control may be less reliable than automated elements because they can be 
more easily bypassed, ignored, or overridden and they are also more prone to simple errors and mistakes. 
Consistency of application of a manual control ele ment cannot therefore be assumed. Manual control 
elements may be less suitable for the following circumstances:  
 
 High volume or recurring transactions, or in situations where errors that can be anticipated or predicted 
can be prevented, or detected and corrected, by control parameters that are automated.  
 
 Control activities where the specific ways to perform the control can be adequately designed and 
automated.  
 
A66.  The extent and nature of the risks to internal control vary depending on the nature and  characteristics of 
the entity’s information system. The entity responds to the risks arising from the use of IT or from use of 
manual elements in internal control by establishing effective controls in light of the characteristics of the 
entity’s information system.  
 
Controls Relevant to the Audit  
 
A67.  There is a direct relationship between an entity’s objectives and the controls it implements to provide 
reasonable assurance about their achievement. The entity’s objectives, and therefore controls, relat e to 
financial reporting, operations and compliance; however, not all of these objectives and controls are 
relevant to the auditor’s risk assessment.  
 
A68.  Factors relevant to the auditor’s judgment about whether a control, individually or in combination  with 
others, is relevant to the audit may include such matters as the following:  
 
 Materiality.  
 
 The significance of the related risk.  
 
 
 The size of the entity.  
 

<!-- page 50 -->

50A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 The nature of the entity’s business, including its organization and ownership characteristics.  
 
 The diversity and complexity of the entity’s operations.  
 
 Applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  
 
 The circumstances and the applicable component of internal control.  
 
 The nature and complexity of the systems that are part of the entity’s internal control, including the 
use of service organizations.  
 
 Whether, and how, a specific control, individually or in combination with others, prevents, or detects 
and corrects, material misstatement.  
 
A69.  Controls over the completeness and accuracy of information produced by the entity may be relevant to 
the audit if the auditor intends to make use of the inform ation in designing and performing further 
procedures. Controls relating to operations and compliance objectives may also be relevant to an audit if 
they relate to data the auditor evaluates or uses in applying audit procedures.  
 
A70.  Internal control over safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition may 
include controls relating to both financial reporting and operations objectives. The auditor’s consideration 
of such controls is generally limited to those relevant to the reliability of financial reporting.  
 
A71.  An entity generally has controls relating to objectives that are not relevant to an audit and therefore need 
not be considered. For example, an entity may rely on a sophisticated system of auto mated controls to 
provide efficient and effective operations (such as an airline’s system of automated controls to maintain 
flight schedules), but these controls ordinarily would not be relevant to the audit. Further, although 
internal control applies to t he entire entity or to any of its operating units or business processes, an 
understanding of internal control relating to each of the entity’s operating units and business processes 
may not be relevant to the audit.  
 
Considerations Specific to Public Sector Entities  
 
A72.  Public sector auditors often have additional responsibilities with respect to internal control, for example, 
to report on compliance with an established code of practice. Public sector auditors can also have 
responsibilities to report o n compliance with law, regulation or other authority. As a result, their review 
of internal control may be broader and more detailed.  
 
Nature and Extent of the Understanding of Relevant Controls (Ref: Para. 13)  
 
A73.  Evaluating the design of a control involves considering whether the control, individually or in 
combination with other controls, is capable of effectively preventing, or detecting and correcting, material 
misstatements. Implementation of a control means th at the control exists and that the entity is using it. 
There is little point in assessing the implementation of a control that is not effective, and so the design of 
a control is considered first. An improperly designed control may represent a significant deficiency in 
internal control.  
 
A74.  Risk assessment procedures to obtain audit evidence about the design and implementation of relevant 
controls may include:  
 
 Inquiring of entity personnel.  
 
 Observing the application of specific controls.  
 

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 51A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 Inspecting documents and reports.  
 
 Tracing transactions through the information system relevant to financial reporting.  
 
Inquiry alone, however, is not sufficient for such purposes.  
 
A75. Obtaining an understanding of an entity’s controls is not suffici ent to test their operating effectiveness, 
unless there is some automation that provides for the consistent operation of the controls. For example, 
obtaining audit evidence about the implementation of a manual control at a point in time does not provide 
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of the control at other times during the period under 
audit. However, because of the inherent consistency of IT processing (see paragraph A62), performing 
audit procedures to determine whether an automated control has been implemented may serve as a test of 
that control’s operating effectiveness, depending on the auditor’s assessment and testing of controls such 
as those over program changes. Tests of the operating effectiveness of controls are further describe d in 
SLAuS 330.13 
 
Components of Internal Control—Control Environment (Ref: Para. 14)  
 
A76.  The control environment includes the governance and management functions and the attitudes, awareness, 
and actions of those charged with governance and management concerning the entity’s internal control 
and its importance in the entity. The control environment sets the tone of an organization, influencing the 
control consciousness of its people.  
 
A77.  Elements of the control environment that may be relevant when obtaining an understanding of the control 
environment include the following:  
 
(a)  Communication and enforcement of integrity and ethical values – These are essential elements that 
influence the effectiveness of the design, administration and monitoring of controls.  
 
(b)  Commitment to competence – Matters such as management’s consideration of the competence levels 
for particular jobs and how those levels translate into requisite skills and knowledge.  
 
(c)  Participation by those charged with governance – Attributes of those charged with governance such 
as:  
 
 Their independence from management.  
 
 Their experience and stature.  
 
 The extent of their involvement and the information they receive, and the scrutiny of activities.  
 
 The appropriateness of their actions, including the degree to which difficult questions are raised 
and pursued with management, and their interaction with internal and external auditors.  
 
(d)  Management’s philosophy and operating style – Characteristics such as management’s:  
 
 Approach to taking and managing business risks.  
 
 Attitudes and actions toward financial reporting.  
 
 Attitudes toward information processing and accounting functions and personnel.  
 
(e)  Organizational structure – The framework within which an entity’s activities for achieving its 
objectives are planned, executed, controlled, and reviewed.  
 
                                                           
13  SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks  

<!-- page 52 -->

52A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(f)  Assignment of authority and responsibility – Matters such as how authority and responsibility for 
operating activities are assigned and how reporting relationships and authorization hierarchies are 
established.  
(g)  Human resource policies and practices – Policies and practices that relate to, for example, 
recruitment, orientation, training, evaluation, counselling, promo tion, compensation, and remedial 
actions.  
 
Audit Evidence for Elements of the Control Environment  
 
A78.  Relevant audit evidence may be obtained through a combination of inquiries and other risk assessment 
procedures such as corroborating inquiries through observation or inspection of documents. For example, 
through inquiries of management and employees, the auditor may obtain an understanding of how 
management communicates to employees its views on business practices and ethical behavior. The auditor 
may then determine whether relevant controls have been implemented by considering, for example, 
whether management has a written code of conduct and whether it acts in a manner that supports the code.  
 
A79.  The auditor may also consider how management has responded to the findings and recommendations of 
the internal audit function regarding identified deficienci es in internal control relevant to the audit, 
including whether and how such responses have been implemented, and whether they have been 
subsequently evaluated by the internal audit function.  
 
Effect of the Control Environment on the Assessment of the Risk of Material Misstatement 
 
A80.  Some elements of an entity’s control environment have a pervasive effect on assessing the risks of 
material misstatement. For example, an entity’s control consciousness is influenced significantly by those 
charged with gov ernance, because one of their roles is to counterbalance pressures on management in 
relation to financial reporting that may arise from market demands or remuneration schemes. The 
effectiveness of the design of the control environment in relation to partic ipation by those charged with 
governance is therefore influenced by such matters as:  
 
 Their independence from management and their ability to evaluate the actions of management.  
 
 Whether they understand the entity’s business transactions.  
 
 The extent to which they evaluate whether the financial statements are prepared in accordance with 
the applicable financial reporting framework.  
 
A81.  An active and independent board of directors may influence the philosophy and operating style of senior 
management. However, other elements may be more limited in their effect. For example, although human 
resource policies and practices directed toward hir ing competent financial, accounting, and IT personnel 
may reduce the risk of errors in processing financial information, they may not mitigate a strong bias by 
top management to overstate earnings.  
 
A82.  The existence of a satisfactory control environment can be a positive factor when the auditor assesses the 
risks of material misstatement. However, although it may help reduce the risk of fraud, a satisfactory 
control environment is not an absolute deterrent to fraud. Conversely, deficiencies in the contr ol 
environment may undermine the effectiveness of controls, in particular in relation to fraud. For example, 
management’s failure to commit sufficient resources to address IT security risks may adversely affect 
internal control by allowing improper changes  to be made to computer programs or to data, or 

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 53A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
unauthorized transactions to be processed. As explained in SLAuS 330, the control environment also 
influences the nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s further procedures. 14  
 
A83.  The control environment in itself does not prevent, or detect and correct, a material misstatement. It may, 
however, influence the auditor’s evaluation of the effectiveness of other controls (for example, the 
monitoring of controls and the operation of specific control activiti es) and thereby, the auditor’s 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement.  
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities  
 
A84.  The control environment within small entities is likely to differ from larger entities. For example, those 
charged with governance in small entities may not include an independent or outside member, and the 
role of governance may be undertaken directly by the owner-manager where there are no other owners. 
The nature of the control environment may also influence the significance of other controls, or their 
absence. For example, the active involvement of an owner -manager may mitigate certain of the risks 
arising from a lack of segregation of duties in a small entity; it may, however, increase other risks, for 
example, the risk of override of controls.  
 
A85.  In addition, audit evidence for elements of the control environment in smaller entities may not be available 
in documentary form, in particular where communication between management and other personnel may 
be informal, yet effective. For example, small entities might not have a written code of conduct but, 
instead, develop a culture that emphasizes the im portance of integrity and ethical behavior through oral 
communication and by management example.  
 
A86.  Consequently, the attitudes, awareness and actions of management or the owner-manager are of particular 
importance to the auditor’s understanding of a smaller entity’s control environment.  
 
Components of Internal Control—The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process (Ref: Para. 15)  
 
A87.  The entity’s risk assessment process forms the basis for how management determines the risks to be 
managed. If that process is appropriate to the circumstances, including the nature, size and complexity of 
the entity, it assists the auditor in identifying risks of material misstatement. Whether the entity’s risk 
assessment process is appropriate to the circumstances is a matter of judgment.  
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities (Ref: Para. 17)  
 
A88.  There is unlikely to be an established risk assessment process in a small entity. In such cases, it is likely 
that management will identify risks through direct personal in volvement in the business. Irrespective of 
the circumstances, however, inquiry about identified risks and how they are addressed by management is 
still necessary.  
 
Components of Internal Control—The Information System, Including Related Business Processes, Relevant to 
Financial Reporting, and Communication  
 
The Information System, Including Related Business Processes, Relevant to Financial Reporting (Ref: Para. 
18)  
 
A89.  The information system relevant to financial reporting objectives, which includes the accounting system, 
consists of the procedures and records designed and established to:  
 
 Initiate, record, process, and report entity transactions (as well as events and conditions) and to 
maintain accountability for the related assets, liabilities, and equity;  
 
                                                           
14  SLAuS 330, paragraphs A2–A3 

<!-- page 54 -->

54A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 Resolve incorrect processing of transactions, for example, automated suspense files and procedures 
followed to clear suspense items out on a timely basis;   
 
 Process and account for system overrides or bypasses to controls;  
 
 Transfer information from transaction processing systems to the general ledger;  
 
 Capture information relevant to financial reporting for events and conditions other than transactions, 
such as the depreciation and amortization of assets and changes in the recoverability of accounts 
receivables; and  
 
 Ensure information required to be disclosed by the applicable financial reporting framework is 
accumulated, recorded, processed, summarized and appropriately reported in the financial statements.  
 
Journal entries  
 
A90.  An entity’s information system typically includes the use of standard journal entries that are required on 
a recurring basis to record transactions. Examples might be journal entries to record sales, purchases, and 
cash disbursements in the general ledger, or to record accounting estimates that are periodically made by 
management, such as changes in the estimate of uncollectible accounts receivable.  
 
A91.  An entity’s financial reporting process also includes the use of non-standard journal entries to record non-
recurring, unusual transactions or adjustments. Examples of such entries include consolidating 
adjustments and entries for a business combination or disposal or non -recurring estimates such as the 
impairment of an asset. In manual general ledger systems, non-standard journal entries may be identified 
through inspection of ledgers, journals, and supporting documentation. When automated procedures are 
used to maintain the g eneral ledger and prepare financial statements, such entries may exist only in 
electronic form and may therefore be more easily identified through the use of computer -assisted audit 
techniques.  
 
Related business processes  
 
A92.  An entity’s business processes are the activities designed to:  
 
 Develop, purchase, produce, sell and distribute an entity’s products and services;  
 
 Ensure compliance with laws and regulations; and  
 
 Record information, including accounting and financial reporting information.  
 
Business processes result in the transactions that are recorded, processed and reported by the information 
system. Obtaining an understanding of the entity’s business processes, which include how transactions 
are originated, assists the auditor obtain an u nderstanding of the entity’s information system relevant to 
financial reporting in a manner that is appropriate to the entity’s circumstances.  
 
Considerations specific to smaller entities  
 
A93. Information systems and related business processes relevant to financial reporting in small entities are 
likely to be less sophisticated than in larger entities, but their role is just as significant. Small entities with 
active management involvement may not need extensive descriptions of accounting procedures, 
sophisticated accounting records, or written policies. Understanding the entity’s systems and processes 
may therefore be easier in an audit of smaller entities, and may be more dependent on inquiry than on 
review of documentation. The need to obtain an understanding, however, remains important.  
 

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 55A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
Communication (Ref: Para. 19)  
 
A94.  Communication by the entity of the financial reporting roles and responsibilities and of significant matters 
relating to financial reporting involves providing an understanding of individual roles and responsibilities 
pertaining to internal control over financial reporting. It includes such matters as the extent to which 
personnel understand how their activities in the financial reporting information system relate to the work 
of ot hers and the means of reporting exceptions to an appropriate higher level within the entity. 
Communication may take such forms as policy manuals and financial reporting manuals. Open 
communication channels help ensure that exceptions are reported and acted  on.  
 
Considerations specific to smaller entities  
 
A95.  Communication may be less structured and easier to achieve in a small entity than in a larger entity due 
to fewer levels of responsibility and management’s greater visibility and availability.  
 
Components of Internal Control-Control Activities Relevant to the Audit (Ref: Para. 20) 
 
A96.  Control activities are the policies and procedures that help ensure that management directives are carried 
out. Control activities, whether within IT or manual systems, have various objectives and are applied at 
various organizational and functional levels. Examples of specific control activities include those relating 
to the following:  
 
 Authorization.  
 
 Performance reviews.  
 
 Information processing.  
 
 Physical controls.  
 
 Segregation of duties.  
   
A97.  Control activities that are relevant to the audit are:  
 
 Those that are required to be treated as such, being control activities that relate to significant risks and 
those that relate to risks for which substantive procedures alone do not provide sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence, as required by paragraphs 29 and 30, respectively; or  
 
 Those that are considered to be relevant in the judgment of the auditor.  
 
A98.  The auditor’s judgment about whether a control activity is relevant to the audit is influenced by the risk 
that the auditor has identified that may give rise to a material misstatement and whether the auditor thinks 
it is likely to be appropriate to test the operating effectiveness of the control in determining the extent of 
substantive testing.  
  
A99.  The auditor’s emphasis may be on identifying and obtaining an understanding of control activities that 
address the areas where the auditor considers that risks of material misstatement are likely to be higher. 
When multiple control activities each achieve the same objective, it is unnecessary to obta in an 
understanding of each of the control activities related to such objective.  
 
A100.The auditor’s knowledge about the presence or absence of control activities obtained from the 
understanding of the other components of internal control assists the auditor in determining whether it is 
necessary to devote additional attention to obtaining an understanding of control activities.  
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 56 -->

56A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities  
 
A101.The concepts underlying control activities in small entities are likely to be similar to those in larger 
entities, but the formality with which they operate may vary. Further, small entities may find that certain 
types of control activities are not relevan t because of controls applied by management. For example, 
management’s sole authority for granting credit to customers and approving significant purchases can 
provide strong control over important account balances and transactions, lessening or removing th e need 
for more detailed control activities.  
 
A102. Control activities relevant to the audit of a smaller entity are likely to relate to the main transaction cycles 
such as revenues, purchases and employment expenses.  
 
Risks Arising from IT (Ref: Para. 21)  
 
A103. The use of IT affects the way that control activities are implemented. From the auditor’s perspective, 
controls over IT systems are effective when they maintain the integrity of information and the security 
of the data such systems process, and include effective general IT controls and application controls.  
 
A104. General IT controls are policies and procedures that relate to many applications and support the effective 
functioning of application controls. They apply to mainframe, miniframe, and end -user environments. 
General IT controls that maintain the integrity of information and security of data commonly include 
controls over the following:  
 
 Data center and network operations.  
 
 System software acquisition, change and maintenance.  
 
 Program change.  
 
 Access security.  
 
 Application system acquisition, development, and maintenance.  
 
They are generally implemented to deal with the risks referred to in paragraph A63 above.  
 
A105. Application controls are manual or automated procedures that typically operate at a business process 
level and apply to the processing of transactions by individual applications. Application controls can be 
preventive or detective in nature and are designe d to ensure the integrity of the accounting records. 
Accordingly, application controls relate to procedures used to initiate, record, process and report 
transactions or other financial data. These controls help ensure that transactions occurred, are authorized, 
and are completely and accurately recorded and processed. Examples include edit checks of input data, 
and numerical sequence checks with manual follow-up of exception reports or correction at the point of 
data entry.  
 
Components of Internal Control-Monitoring of Controls (Ref: Para. 22) 
 
A106. Monitoring of controls is a process to assess the effectiveness of internal control performance over time. 
It involves assessing the effectiveness of controls on a timely basis and taking necessary reme dial 
actions. Management accomplishes monitoring of controls through ongoing activities, separate 
evaluations, or a combination of the two. Ongoing monitoring activities are often built into the normal 
recurring activities of an entity and include regular management and supervisory activities.  
 

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 57A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
A107. Management’s monitoring activities may include using information from communications from external 
parties such as customer complaints and regulator comments that may indicate problems or highlight 
areas in need of improvement.  
 
Considerations Specific to Smaller Entities  
 
A108. Management’s monitoring of control is often accomplished by management’s or the owner -manager’s 
close involvement in operations. This involvement often will identify significant variances from 
expectations and inaccuracies in financial data leading to remedial action to the control.  
 
 
The Entity’s Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 23)  
 
A109. If the entity has an internal audit function, obtaining an understanding of that function contributes to the 
auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, in particular the 
role that the function plays in the entity ’s monitoring of internal control over financial reporting. This 
understanding, together with the information obtained from the auditor’s inquiries in paragraph 6(a) of 
this SLAuS, may also provide information that is directly relevant to the auditor’s ide ntification and 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement.  
 
A110. The objectives and scope of an internal audit function, the nature of its responsibilities and its status 
within the organization, including the function’s authority and accountabili ty, vary widely and depend 
on the size and structure of the entity and the requirements of management and, where applicable, those 
charged with governance. These matters may be set out in an internal audit charter or terms of reference.  
 
A111. The responsibilities of an internal audit function may include performing procedures and evaluating the 
results to provide assurance to management and those charged with governance regarding the design and 
effectiveness of risk management, internal control and govern ance processes. If so, the internal audit 
function may play an important role in the entity’s monitoring of internal control over financial reporting. 
However, the responsibilities of the internal audit function may be focused on evaluating the economy, 
efficiency and effectiveness of operations and, if so, the work of the function  may not directly relate to 
the entity’s financial reporting.  
 
A112. The auditor’s inquiries of appropriate individuals within the internal audit function in accordance with 
paragraph 6(a) of this SLAuS help the auditor obtain an understanding of the nature of the internal audit 
function’s responsibilities. If the auditor determines that the function’s responsibilities are related to the 
entity’s financial reporting, the auditor may obtain further understanding of the activities performed, or 
to be performed, by the internal audit function by reviewing the internal audit fun ction’s audit plan for 
the period, if any, and discussing that plan with the appropriate individuals within the function.  
 
A113. If the nature of the internal audit function’s responsibilities and assurance activities are related to the 
entity’s financial reporting, the auditor may also be able to use the work of the internal audit function to 
modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit procedures to be performed directly by the 
auditor in obtaining audit evidence. Auditors may be more likely to be able to use the work of an entity’s 
internal audit function when it appears, for example, based on experience in previous audits or the 
auditor’s risk assessment procedures, that the entity has an internal audit function that is adequately and 
appropriately resourced relative to the size of the entity and the nature of its operations, and has a direct 
reporting relationship to those charged with governance.  
 
A114. If, based on the auditor’s preliminary understanding of the internal audit function, the auditor expects to 
use the work of the internal audit function to modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit 
procedures to be performed, SLAuS 610 (Revised) applies.  
 
 

<!-- page 58 -->

58A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
A115. As is further discussed in SLAuS 610 (Revised), the activit ies of an internal audit function are distinct 
from other monitoring controls that may be relevant to financial reporting, such as reviews of 
management accounting information that are designed to contribute to how the entity prevents or detects 
misstatements.  
 
A116. Establishing communications with the appropriate individuals within an entity’s internal audit function 
early in the engagement, and maintaining such communications throughout the engagement, can 
facilitate effective sharing of information. It creates an environment in which the auditor can be informed 
of significant matters that may come to the attention of the internal audit function when such matters 
may affect the work of the auditor. SLAuS 200 discusses the importance of the auditor planni ng and 
performing the audit with professional skepticism, including being alert to information that brings into 
question the reliability of documents and responses to inquiries to be used as audit evidence. 
Accordingly, communication with the internal audi t function throughout the engagement may provide 
opportunities for internal auditors to bring such information to the auditor’s attention. The  auditor is 
then able to take such information into account in the auditor’s identification and assessment of ris ks of 
material misstatement.  
 
Sources of Information (Ref: Para. 24)  
 
A117. Much of the information used in monitoring may be produced by the entity’s information system. If 
management assumes that data used for monitoring are accurate without having a basis for that 
assumption, errors that may exist in the information could poten tially lead management to incorrect 
conclusions from its monitoring activities. Accordingly, an understanding of:  
 
 the sources of the information related to the entity’s monitoring activities; and  
 
 the basis upon which management considers the information to be sufficiently reliable for the purpose,  
 
is required as part of the auditor’s understanding of the entity’s monitoring activities as a component of 
internal control.  
 
Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement  
 
Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement at the Financial Statement Level (Ref: Para. 25(a))  
 
A118. Risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level refer to risks that relate pervasively to the 
financial statements as a whole and potentially affect many assertions. Risks of this nature are not 
necessarily risks identifiable with specific assertions at the class of transactions, account balance, or 
disclosure level. Rather, they represent circumstances that may increase the risks of material 
misstatement at the assertion level, for example, through management override of internal control. 
Financial statement level risks may be especially relevant to the auditor’s consideration of the risks of 
material misstatement arising from fraud.  
 
A119. Risks at the financial statement level may derive in particular from a deficient control environment 
(although these risks may also relate to other factors, such as declining economic conditions). For 
example, deficiencies such as management’s lack of competence may have a more pervasive effect on 
the financial statements and may require an overall response by the auditor.  
 
A120. The auditor’s understanding of internal control may raise doubts about the auditability of an entity’s 
financial statements. For example:  
 

<!-- page 59 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 59A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 Concerns about the integrity of the entity’s management may be so serious as to cause the  auditor to 
conclude that the risk of management misrepresentation in the financial statements is such that  an 
audit cannot be conducted.  
 
 Concerns about the condition and reliability of an entity’s records may cause the auditor to conclude 
that it is unlikely that sufficient appropriate audit evidence will be available to support an unmodified 
opinion on the financial statements.  
 
A121. SLAuS 70515 establishes requirements and provides guidance in determining whether there is a need for 
the auditor to express a qualified opinion or disclaim an opinion or, as may be required in some cases, 
to withdraw from the engagement where withdrawal is possible under applicable law or regulation.  
 
 Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement at the Assertion Level (Ref: Para. 25(b))  
 
A122. Risks of material misstatement at the assertion level for classes of transactions, account balances, and 
disclosures need to be considered because such consideration directly assists in determining the nature, 
timing and extent o f further audit procedures at the assertion level necessary to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence. In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement at the assertion 
level, the auditor may conclude that the identified risks relate more pervasively to the financial 
statements as a whole and potentially affect many assertions.  
 
The Use of Assertions  
 
A123. In representing that the financial statements are in accordance with the applicable financial reporting 
framework, management implici tly or explicitly makes assertions regarding the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of the various elements of financial statements and related 
disclosures.  
 
A124. Assertions used by the auditor to consider the different types of potent ial misstatements that may occur 
fall into the following three categories and may take the following forms:  
 
(a) Assertions about classes of transactions and events for the period under audit:  
 
(i)  Occurrence—transactions and events that have been recorded have occurred and pertain to the 
entity.  
 
(ii)  Completeness—all transactions and events that should have been recorded have been recorded.  
 
(iii)  Accuracy—amounts and other data relating to rec orded transactions and events have been 
recorded appropriately.  
 
(iv)  Cutoff—transactions and events have been recorded in the correct accounting period.  
 
(v)  Classification—transactions and events have been recorded in the proper accounts.  
 
(b) Assertions about account balances at the period end:  
 
(i)  Existence—assets, liabilities, and equity interests exist.  
 
(ii)  Rights and obligations—the entity holds or controls the rights to assets, and liabilities are the 
obligations of the entity.  
 
(iii)   Completeness—all assets, liabilities and equity interests that should have been recorded have 
been recorded.  
 
(iv)  Valuation and allocation —assets, liabilities, and equity interests are included in the financial 
statements at appropriate amounts and any resulting valuation or allocation adjustments are 
appropriately recorded.  
                                                           
15  SLAuS 705, Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report  

<!-- page 60 -->

60A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(c) Assertions about presentation and disclosure:  
 
(i) Occurrence and rights and obligations —disclosed events, transactions, and other matters have 
occurred and pertain to the entity.  
 
(ii)  Completeness—all disclosures that should have been included in the financial statements have 
been included.  
 
(iii)  Classification and understandability —financial information is appropriately presented and 
described, and disclosures are clearly expressed.  
 
(iv)  Accuracy and valuation—financial and other information are disclosed fairly and at appropriate 
amounts.  
 
A125. The auditor may use the assertions as described above or may express them differently provided all 
aspects described above have been covered. For example, the auditor may choose to combine the 
assertions about transactions and events with the assertions about account balances.  
 
Considerations specific to public sector entities    
A126. When making assertions about the financial statements of public sector entities, in addition to those 
assertions set out in paragraph A124, management may often assert t hat transactions and events have 
been carried out in accordance with law, regulation or other authority. Such assertions may fall within 
the scope of the financial statement audit.  
 
Process of Identifying Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 26(a))  
 
A127. Information gathered by performing risk assessment procedures, including the audit evidence obtained 
in evaluating the design of controls and determining whether they have been implemented, is used as 
audit evidence to support the risk assessment. The risk assessment determines the nature, timing and 
extent of further audit procedures to be performed.  
 
A128. Appendix 2 provides examples of conditions and events that may indicate the existence of risks of 
material misstatement.  
 
Relating Controls to Assertions (Ref: Para. 26(c))  
 
A129. In making risk assessments, the auditor may identify the controls that are likely to prevent, or detect and 
correct, material misstatement in specific assertions. Generally, it is useful to obtain an understanding of 
controls and relate them to assertions in the context of processes and systems in which they exist because 
individual control activities often do not in themselves address a risk. Often, only multiple control 
activities, together with other components of internal control, will be sufficient to address a risk.  
 
A130. Conversely, some control activities may have a specific effect on an individual assertion embodied in a 
particular class of transactions or account balance. For example, the control activities  that an entity 
established to ensure that its personnel are properly counting and recording the annual physical inventory 
relate directly to the existence and completeness assertions for the inventory account balance.  
 
A131. Controls can be either directly or indirectly related to an assertion. The more indirect the relationship, 
the less effective that control may be in preventing, or detecting and correcting, misstatements in that 
assertion. For example, a sales manager’s re view of a summary of sales activity for specific stores by 
region ordinarily is only indirectly related to the completeness assertion for sales revenue. Accordingly, 

<!-- page 61 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 61A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
it may be less effective in reducing risk for that assertion than controls more directly r elated to that 
assertion, such as matching shipping documents with billing documents.  
  
Significant Risks  
 
Identifying Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 28)  
 
 
A132. Significant risks often relate to significant non -routine transactions or judgmental matters. Non -routine 
transactions are transactions that are unusual, due to either size or nature, and that therefore occur 
infrequently. Judgmental matters may include the development of accounting estimates for which there 
is significant measurement uncertainty. Routine, non-complex transactions that are subject to systematic 
processing are less likely to give rise to significant risks.  
 
A133. Risks of material misstatement may be greater for significant non -routine transactions arising from 
matters such as the following:  
 
 Greater management intervention to specify the accounting treatment.  
 
 Greater manual intervention for data collection and processing. 
 
 Complex calculations or accounting principles.  
 
 The nature of non -routine transactions, which may make it difficult for the entity to implement 
effective controls over the risks.  
 
A134. Risks of material misstatement may be greater for signi ficant judgmental matters that require the 
development of accounting estimates, arising from matters such as the following:  
 
 Accounting principles for accounting estimates or revenue recognition may be subject to differing 
interpretation.  
 
 Required judgment may be subjective or complex, or require assumptions about the effects of future 
events, for example, judgment about fair value.  
 
A135. SLAuS 330 describes the consequences for further audit procedures of identifying a risk as significant.16  
 
Significant risks relating to the risks of material misstatement due to fraud  
 
A136. SLAuS 240 provides further requirements and guidance in relation to the identification and assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud.17  
 
Understanding Controls Related to Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 29)  
 
A137. Although risks relating to significant non-routine or judgmental matters are often less likely to be subject 
to routine controls, management may have other responses intended to deal with such risks. Accordingly, 
the auditor’s understanding of whether the entity has designed and implemented controls for significant 
risks arising from non -routine or judgmental matters includes whether and how management responds 
to the risks. Such responses might include:  
 
 Control activities such as a review of assumptions by senior management or experts.  
 
 Documented processes for estimations.  
 
 Approval by those charged with governance.  
 
                                                           
16  SLAuS 330, paragraphs 15 and 21  
17  SLAuS 240, paragraphs 25–27 

<!-- page 62 -->

62A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
A138. For example, where there are one -off events such as the receipt of notice of a significant lawsuit, 
consideration of the entity’s response may include such matters as whether it has been referred to 
appropriate experts (such as internal or external legal counsel), whether an assessment has been made of 
the potential effect, and how it is proposed that the circumstances are to be disclosed in the financial 
statements.  
 
A139. In some cases, management may not have appropriately responded to significant risks  of material 
misstatement by implementing controls over these significant risks. Failure by management to 
implement such controls is an indicator of a significant deficiency in internal control. 18 
 
 
Risks for Which Substantive Procedures Alone Do Not Provide Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence 
(Ref: Para. 30)  
 
A140. Risks of material misstatement may relate directly to the recording of routine classes of transactions or 
account balances, and the preparation of reliable financial statements. Such risks may include risks of 
inaccurate or incomplete processing for routine and significant classes of transactions such as an entity’s 
revenue, purchases, and cash receipts or cash payments.  
 
A141. Where such routine business transactions are subject to highly automated processing with little or no 
manual intervention, it may not be possible to perform only substantive procedures in relation to the risk. 
For example, the auditor may consider this to be the case in circumstances where a significant amount 
of an entity’s information is initiated, recorded, processed, or reported only in electronic form such as in 
an integrated system. In such cases:  
 
 Audit evidence may be available only in electronic form, and its sufficiency and appropriateness 
usually depend on the effectiveness of controls over its accuracy and completeness.  
 
 The potential for improper initiation or alteration of information to occur and not be detected may be 
greater if appropriate controls are not operating effectively.  
 
A142. The consequences for further audit procedures of identifying such risks are described in SLAuS 330. 19 
 
Revision of Risk Assessment (Ref: Para. 31)  
 
A143. During the audit, information may come to the auditor’s attention that differs significantly from the 
information on which the risk assessment was based. For example, the risk assessment may be based on 
an expectation that certain controls are operating ef fectively. In performing tests of those controls, the 
auditor may obtain audit evidence that they were not operating effectively at relevant times during the 
audit. Similarly, in performing substantive procedures the auditor may detect misstatements in amo unts 
or frequency greater than is consistent with the auditor’s risk assessments. In such circumstances, the 
risk assessment may not appropriately reflect the true circumstances of the entity and the further planned 
audit procedures may not be effective in  detecting material misstatements. See SLAuS 330 for further 
guidance.  
  
Documentation (Ref: Para. 32)  
 
A144. The manner in which the requirements of paragraph 32 are documented is for the auditor to determine 
using professional judgment. For example, in audits of small entities the documentation may be 
                                                           
18  SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management, paragraph A7  
19  SLAuS 330, paragraph 8  

<!-- page 63 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 63A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
incorporated in the auditor’s documentation of the overall st rategy and audit plan. 20 Similarly, for 
example, the results of the risk assessment may be documented separately, or may be documented as 
part of the auditor’s documentation of further procedures.21 The form and extent of the documentation is 
influenced by t he nature, size and complexity of the entity and its internal control, availability of 
information from the entity and the audit methodology and technology used in the course of the audit.  
 
A145. For entities that have uncomplicated businesses and process es relevant to financial reporting, the 
documentation may be simple in form and relatively brief. It is not necessary to document the entirety 
of the auditor’s understanding of the entity and matters related to it. Key elements of understanding 
documented by the auditor include those on which the auditor based the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement.  
 
A146. The extent of documentation may also reflect the experience and capabilities of the members of the audit 
engagement team. Provided the requirements of SLAuS 230 are always met, an audit undertaken by an 
engagement team comprising less experienced individuals may require more detailed documentation to 
assist them to obtain an appropriate understanding of the entity than one that includes expe rienced 
individuals.  
 
A147. For recurring audits, certain documentation may be carried forward, updated as necessary to reflect 
changes in the entity’s business or processes.  
 
Appendix I 
(Ref: Para. 4(c), 14-24, A76 – A117) 
 
Internal Control Components   
 
1. This appendix further explains the components of internal control, as set out in paragraphs 4(c), 14 –24 
and A76–A117, as they relate to a financial statement audit.  
 
Control Environment  
 
2.  The control environment encompasses the following elements:  
 
(a) Communication and enforcement of integrity and ethical values . The effectiveness of controls 
cannot rise above the integrity and ethical values of the people who create, administer, and monitor 
them. Integrity and ethical behavior are the product of the entity’s ethical and behavioral standards, 
how they are communicated, and how they are reinforced in practice. The enforcement of integrity 
and ethical values includes, for example, management actions to eliminate or mitigate incentives or 
temptations that  might prompt personnel to engage in dishonest, illegal, or unethical acts. The 
communication of entity policies on integrity and ethical values may include the communication of 
behavioral standards to personnel through policy statements and codes of condu ct and by example. 
 
(b)  Commitment to competence. Competence is the knowledge and skills necessary to accomplish tasks 
that define the individual’s job.  
 
(c)  Participation by those charged with governance . An entity’s control consciousness is influenced  
significantly by those charged with governance. The importance of the responsibilities of those 
charged with governance is recognized in codes of practice and other laws and regulations or 
guidance produced for the benefit of those charged with governance. Other responsibilities of those 
charged with governance include oversight of the design and effective operation of whistle blower 
procedures and the process for reviewing the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  
 
                                                           
20  SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraphs 7 and 9 
21  SLAuS 330, paragraph 28 

<!-- page 64 -->

64A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(d) Management’s philosophy a nd operating style . Management’s philosophy and operating style 
encompass a broad range of characteristics. For example, management’s attitudes and actions 
toward financial reporting may manifest themselves through conservative or aggressive selection 
from available alternative accounting principles, or conscientiousness and conservatism with which 
accounting estimates are developed.  
 
(e)  Organizational structure. Establishing a relevant organizational structure includes considering key 
areas of authority  and responsibility and appropriate lines of reporting. The appropriateness of an 
entity’s organizational structure depends, in part, on its size and the nature of its activities.  
 
(f)  Assignment of authority and responsibility . The assignment of authority and responsibility may 
include policies relating to appropriate business practices, knowledge and experience of key 
personnel, and resources provided for carrying out duties. In addition, it may include policies and 
communications directed at ensuring that all personnel understand the entity’s objectives, know how 
their individual actions interrelate and contribute to those objectives, and recognize how and for 
what they will be held accountable.  
 
(g)  Human resource policies and practices. Human resource policies and practices often demonstrate 
important matters in relation to the control consciousness of an entity. For example, standards for 
recruiting the most qualified individuals – with emphasis on educational background, prior work 
experience, past accomplishments, and evidence of integrity and ethical behavior – demonstrate an 
entity’s commitment to competent and trustworthy people. Training policies that communicate 
prospective roles and responsibilities and include prac tices such as training schools and seminars 
illustrate expected levels of performance and behavior. Promotions driven by periodic performance 
appraisals demonstrate the entity’s commitment to the advancement of qualified personnel to higher 
levels of responsibility.  
 
Entity’s Risk Assessment Process  
 
3.  For financial reporting purposes, the entity’s risk assessment process includes how management 
identifies business risks relevant to the preparation of financial statements in accordance with the entity’s 
applicable financial reporting framework, estimates  their significance, assesses the likelihood of their 
occurrence, and decides upon actions to respond to and manage them and the results thereof. For 
example, the entity’s risk assessment process may address how the entity considers the possibility of 
unrecorded transactions or identifies and analyzes significant estimates recorded in the financial 
statements.  
 
4.  Risks relevant to reliable financial reporting include external and internal events, transactions or 
circumstances that may occur and adversely  affect an entity’s ability to initiate, record, process, and 
report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements. 
Management may initiate plans, programs, or actions to address specific risks or it may decide to accept 
a risk because of cost or other considerations. Risks can arise or change due to circumstances such as the 
following:  
 
 Changes in operating environment. Changes in the regulatory or operating environment can result in 
changes in competitive pressures and significantly different risks.  
 
 New personnel. New personnel may have a different focus on or understanding of internal control.  
 
 New or revamped info rmation systems . Significant and rapid changes in information systems can 
change the risk relating to internal control.  
 

<!-- page 65 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 65A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 Rapid growth. Significant and rapid expansion of operations can strain controls and increase the risk 
of a breakdown in controls.  
 
 New technology . Incorporating new technologies into production processes or information systems 
may change the risk associated with internal control.  
 
 New business models, products, or activities . Entering into business areas or transactions with which 
an entity has little experience may introduce new risks associated with internal control.  
 
 Corporate restructurings . Restructurings may be accompanied by staff reductions and changes in 
supervision and segregation of duties that may change the risk associated with internal control.  
 
 Expanded foreign operations. The expansion or acquisition of foreign operations carries new and often 
unique risks that may affect internal control, for example, additional or changed risks from foreign 
currency transactions.  
 
 New accounting pronouncements . Adoption of new accounti ng principles or changing accounting 
principles may affect risks in preparing financial statements.  
 
 
Information System, Including the Related Business Processes, Relevant to Financial Reporting, and 
Communication  
 
5.  An information system consists of infrastructure (physical and hardware components), software, people, 
procedures, and data. Many information systems make extensive use of information technology (IT).  
 
6.  The information system relevant to financial reporting objectives, which includes the financial reporting 
system, encompasses methods and records that:  
 
 Identify and record all valid transactions.  
 
 Describe on a timely basis the transactions in sufficient detail to permit proper classification of 
transactions for financial reporting.  
 
 Measure the value of transactions in a manner that permits recording their proper monetary value in 
the financial statements.  
 
 Determine the time period in which transactions occurred to permit recording of transactions in the 
proper accounting period.  
 
 Present properly the transactions and related disclosures in the financial statements.  
 
7.  The quality of system-generated information affects management’s ability to make appropriate decisions 
in managing and controlling the entity’s activities and to prepare reliable financial reports.  
 
8.  Communication, which involves providing an understan ding of individual roles and responsibilities 
pertaining to internal control over financial reporting, may take such forms as policy manuals, accounting 
and financial reporting manuals, and memoranda. Communication also can be made electronically, 
orally, and through the actions of management.  
 
Control Activities  
 
9.  Generally, control activities that may be relevant to an audit may be categorized as policies and 
procedures that pertain to the following:  
 
 Performance reviews . These control activities include reviews and analyses of actual performance 
versus budgets, forecasts, and prior period performance; relating different sets of data – operating or 
financial – to one another, together with analyses of the relationships and investigative and corrective 

<!-- page 66 -->

66A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
actions; comparing internal data with external sources of information; and review of functional or 
activity performance.  
 
 Information processing . The two broad groupings of information systems control activities are 
application controls, which apply to the processing of individual applications, and general IT controls, 
which are policies and procedures that relate to many applications and support the effective 
functioning of application controls by helping to ensure the continued proper operation of information 
systems. Examples of application controls include checking the arithmetical accuracy of records, 
maintaining and reviewing accounts and trial balances, automated controls such as edit checks of input 
data and numerical sequence checks, and manual follow-up of exception reports. Examples of general 
IT controls are program change controls, controls that restrict access to programs or data, controls over 
the implementation of new releases of packaged software applications, and controls over system 
software that restrict access to or monitor the use of system utilities that could change financial data 
or records without leaving an audit trail.  
 
 Physical controls. Controls that encompass:  
 
o The physical security of assets, including adequate safeguards such as secured facilities over 
access to assets and records.  
 
o The authorization for access to computer programs and data files.  
 
o The periodic cou nting and comparison with amounts shown on control records (for example, 
comparing the results of cash, security and inventory counts with accounting records).  
 
The extent to which physical controls intended to prevent theft of assets are relevant to the reliability of 
financial statement preparation, and therefore the audit, depends on circumstances such as when assets 
are highly susceptible to misappropriation.  
 
 Segregation of duties . Assigning different people the responsibilities of authorizing transactions, 
recording transactions, and maintaining custody of assets. Segregation of duties is intended to reduce 
the opportunities to allow any person to be in a position to both perpetrate and conceal errors or fraud 
in the normal course of the person’s duties.  
 
10.  Certain control activities may depend on the existence of appropriate higher level policies established 
by management or those charged with governance. For example, authorization controls may be delegated 
under established guidelines, such as investment criteria set by those charged with governance; 
alternatively, non-routine transactions such as major acquisitions or divestments may require specific 
high level approval, including in some cases that of shareholders.  
  
Monitoring of Controls  
 
11.  An important management responsibility is to establish and maintain internal control on an ongoing 
basis. Management’s monitoring of controls includes considering whether they are operating as intended 
and that they are modified as appropriate for changes in conditions. Monitoring of controls may include 
activities such as management’s review of whether bank reconciliations are being prepared on a timely 
basis, internal auditors’ evaluation of sales personnel’s compliance with the entity’s policies on terms of 
sales contracts, and a legal department’s oversight of compliance with the entity’s ethical or business 
practice policies. Monitoring is done also to ensure that controls continue to operate effectively over 
time. For example, if the timeliness and acc uracy of bank reconciliations are not monitored, personnel 
are likely to stop preparing them.  
 

<!-- page 67 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 67A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
12.  Internal auditors or personnel performing similar functions may contribute to the monitoring of an 
entity’s controls through separate evaluations. Ordinari ly, they regularly provide information about the 
functioning of internal control, focusing considerable attention on evaluating the effectiveness of internal 
control, and communicate information about strengths and deficiencies in internal control and 
recommendations for improving internal control.  
 
13.  Monitoring activities may include using information from communications from external parties that 
may indicate problems or highlight areas in need of improvement. Customers implicitly corroborate 
billing data by paying their invoices or complaining about their charges. In addition, regulators may 
communicate with the entity concerning matters that affect the functioning of internal control, for 
example, communications concerning examinations by bank regula tory agencies. Also, management 
may consider communications relating to internal control from external auditors in performing 
monitoring activities.  
 
 
 
 
Appendix 2  
(Ref: Para. A40, A128)  
 
Conditions and Events That May Indicate Risks of Material Misstatement  
 
The following are examples of conditions and events that may indicate the existence of risks of material 
misstatement. The examples provided cover a broad range of conditions and events; however, not all conditions 
and events are relevant to every audit engagement and the list of examples is not necessarily complete.  
 
 Operations in regions that are economically unstable, for example, countries with significant currency 
devaluation or highly inflationary economies.  
 
 Operations exposed to volatile markets, for example, futures trading.  
 
 Operations that are subject to a high degree of complex regulation.  
 
 Going concern and liquidity issues including loss of significant customers.  
 
 Constraints on the availability of capital and credit.  
 
 Changes in the industry in which the entity operates.  
 
 Changes in the supply chain.  
 
 Developing or offering new products or services, or moving into new lines of business.  
 
 Expanding into new locations.  
 
 Changes in the entity such as large acquisitions or reorganizations or other unusual events.  
 
 Entities or business segments likely to be sold.  
 
 The existence of complex alliances and joint ventures.  
 
 Use of off balance sheet finance, special-purpose entities, and other complex financing arrangements.  
 
 Significant transactions with related parties.  
 
 Lack of personnel with appropriate accounting and financial reporting skills.  
 
 Changes in key personnel including departure of key executives.  
 
 Deficiencies in internal control, especially those not addressed by management.  
 

<!-- page 68 -->

68A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 Inconsistencies between the entity’s IT strategy and its business strategies.  
 
 Changes in the IT environment.  
 
 Installation of significant new IT systems related to financial reporting.  
 
 Inquiries into the entity’s operations or financial results by regulatory or government bodies.  
 
 Past misstatements, history of errors or a significant amount of adjustments at period end.  
 
 Significant amount of non-routine or non-systematic transactions including intercompany transactions and 
large revenue transactions at period end.  
 
 Transactions that are recorded based on management’s intent, for example, debt refinancing, as sets to be 
sold and classification of marketable securities.  
 
 Application of new accounting pronouncements.  
 
 Accounting measurements that involve complex processes.  
 
 Events or transactions that involve significant measurement uncertainty, including accounting estimates.  
 
 Pending litigation and contingent liabilities, for example, sales warranties, financial guarantees and 
environmental remediation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 69 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 69A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 610 (REVISED) 
 
USING THE WORK OF INTERNAL AUDITORS 
 
(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 2015)  
 
CONTENTS 
 
      Paragraph  
Introduction  
Scope of this SLAuS ..................................................................................  1–4  
 Relationship between SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 610  
 (Revised)  ……………………………………………..…………....... 5–8  
The External Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit…..............................  9  
Effective Date ..............................................................................................  10  
Objectives ...................................................................................................  11  
Definition ....................................................................................................  12  
Requirements  
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the  
 Work of the Internal Audit Function Can Be Used ..............…........  13–18  
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function ...........................................  19–23  
Documentation ............................................................................................  24  
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
Definition of Internal Audit Function .........................................................  A1–A4  
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the  
 Work of the Internal Audit Function Can Be Used ..........................  A5–A23  
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function ..........................................  A24–A30  
 
 
 
Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 610 (Revised), Using the Work of Internal Auditors, should be read in 
conjunction with SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in 
Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. 
Introduction 
Scope of this SLAuS  
 
1.  This Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) deals with the external auditor’s responsibilit ies if using the 
work of the internal audit function in obtaining audit evidence.  
 
2.  This SLAuS does not apply if the entity does not have an internal audit function. (Ref: Para. A2)  
 
3.  If the entity has an internal audit function, the requirements in this SLAuS do not apply if:  
 

<!-- page 70 -->

70A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(a)  The responsibilities and activities of the function are not relevant to the audit; or  
 
(b)  Based on the auditor’s preliminary understanding of the function obtained as a result of procedures 
performed under SLAuS 315 (Revised), 22 the external auditor does not expect to use the work of the 
function in obtaining audit evidence.  
 
Nothing in this SLAuS requires the external auditor to use the work of the internal audit function to modify 
the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit procedures to be performed directly by the external 
auditor; it remains a decision of the external auditor in establishing the overall audit strategy.  
 
4.  In some jurisdictions, the external auditor may be prohibited, or restricted to some extent, by law or 
regulation from using the work of the internal audit function. The SLAuSs do not override laws or 
regulations that govern an audit of financial statements. 23 Such prohibitions or restrictions will therefore 
not prevent the external auditor from complying with the SLAuSs.  
 
Relationship between SLAuS 315 (Revised) and SLAuS 610 (Revised)  
 
5.  Many entities establish internal audit functions as part of their internal control and governance structures. 
The objectives and scope of an internal audit function, the nature of its responsibilities and its 
organizational status, including the function’s authority and accountability, vary widely and depend on the 
size and structure of the entity and the requirements of management and, where applicable, those charged 
with governance.  
 
6.  SLAuS 315 (Revised) addresses how the knowledge and experience of t he internal audit function can 
inform the external auditor’s understanding of the entity and its environment and identification and 
assessment of risks of material misstatement. SLAuS 315 (Revised) 24 also explains how effective 
communication between the int ernal and external auditors also creates an environment in which the 
external auditor can be informed of significant matters that may affect the external auditor’s work.  
 
7.  Depending on whether the internal audit function’s organizational status and rel evant policies and 
procedures adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors, the level of competency of the 
internal audit function, and whether the function applies a systematic and disciplined approach, the external 
auditor may also be able to use the work of the internal audit function in a constructive and complementary 
manner. This SLAuS addresses the external auditor’s responsibilities when, based on the external auditor’s 
preliminary understanding of the internal audit function obtained as a result of procedures performed under 
SLAuS 315 (Revised), the external auditor expects to use the work of the internal audit function as part of 
the audit evidence obtained. 25 Such use of that work modifies the nature or timing, or reduces the extent,  
of audit procedures to be performed directly by the external auditor.  
 
8.  There may be individuals in an entity that perform procedures similar to those performed by an internal 
audit function. However, unless performed by an objective and competent fun ction that applies a 
systematic and disciplined approach, including quality control, such procedures would be considered 
internal controls and obtaining evidence regarding the effectiveness of such controls would be part of the 
auditor’s responses to assessed risks in accordance with SLAuS 330.26  
                                                           
22  SLAuS 315 (Revised), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement through Understanding the Entity and Its Environment  
23  SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accorda nce with International Standards on 
Auditing, paragraph A55  
24  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A116 
25  See paragraphs 13–23. 
26  SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risk  

<!-- page 71 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 71A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
The External Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit  
 
9.  The external auditor has sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed, and that responsibility is not 
reduced by the external auditor’s use of the w ork of the internal audit function on the engagement. 
Although the function may perform audit procedures similar to those performed by the external auditor, 
neither the internal audit function nor the internal auditors are independent of the entity as is r equired of 
the external auditor in an audit of financial statements in accordance with SLAuS 200. 27 This SLAuS, 
therefore, defines the conditions that are necessary for the external auditor to be able to use the work of 
internal auditors. It also defines the necessary work effort to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence that the 
work of the internal audit function is adequate for the purposes of the audit. The requirements are designed 
to provide a framework for the external auditor’s judgments regarding th e use of the work of the internal 
audit function to prevent over or undue use of such work.  
 
Effective Date  
 
10.  This SLAuS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January, 
2015.  
 
 
Objectives  
 
11.  The objectives of the external auditor, where the entity has an internal audit function and the external 
auditor expects to use the work of the function to modify the nature or timing, or reduce the extent, of audit 
procedures to be performed directly by the external auditor are:  
 
(a)  To determine whether the work of the internal audit function can be used, and if so, in which areas 
and to what extent;  
 
and having made that determination:  
 
(b)  If using the work of the internal audit function, to determine whether that work is adequate for purposes 
of the audit.  
 
 
Definition  
 
12.  For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following term has the meaning attributed below:  
 
Internal audit function – A function of an entity that performs assurance and consulting activities designed 
to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the entity’s governance, risk management and internal control 
processes. (Ref: Para. A1–A4)  
 
 
Requirements  
 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work of the Internal Audit Function 
Can Be Used  
 
Evaluating the Internal Audit Function  
 
13.  The external auditor shall determine whether the work of the internal audit function can be used for 
purposes of the audit by evaluating the following:  
 
(a)  The extent to which the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and  
procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors; (Ref: Para. A5–A9)  
                                                           
27  SLAuS 200, paragraph 14  

<!-- page 72 -->

72A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 
(b)  The level of competence of the internal audit function; and (Ref: Para. A5–A9)  
 
(c)  Whether the internal audit function applies a systematic and  disciplined approach , including quality 
control. (Ref: Para. A10–A11)  
 
14.  The external auditor shall not use the work of the internal audit function if the external auditor determines 
that:  
 
(a)  The function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures do  not adequately support 
the objectivity of internal auditors;  
 
(b)  The function lacks sufficient competence; or  
 
(c)  The function does not apply a systematic and disciplined approach, including quality control. (Ref: 
Para. A12–A14)  
 
Determining the Nature and Extent of Work of the Internal Audit Function that Can Be Used  
 
15.  As a basis for determining the areas and the extent to which the work of the internal audit function can be 
used, the external auditor shall consider the nature and scope of the work that has been performed, or is 
planned to be performed, by the internal a udit function and its relevance to the external auditor’s overall 
audit strategy and audit plan. (Ref: Para. A15–A17)  
 
16.  The external auditor shall make all significant judgments in the audit engagement and, to prevent undue 
use of the work of the internal audit function, shall plan to use less of the work of the function and perform 
more of the work directly: (Ref: Para. A15–A17)  
 
(a) The more judgment is involved in:  
 
(i) Planning and performing relevant audit procedures; and  
 
(ii)  Evaluating the audit evidence gathered; (Ref: Para. A18–A19)  
 
(b)  The higher the assessed risk of material misstatement at the assertion level, with special consideration 
given to risks identified as significant; (Ref: Para. A20–A22)  
 
(c)  The less the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures 
adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors; and  
 
(d)  The lower the level of competence of the internal audit function.  
 
17.  The external auditor shall also evaluate whether, in aggregate, using the work of the internal audit function 
to the extent planned would still result in the external auditor being sufficiently involved in the audit, given 
the external auditor’s sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed. (Ref: Para. A15–A22)  
 
18.  The external auditor shall, in communicating with those charged with governance an overview of the 
planned scope and timing of the audit in accordance with SLAuS 260, 28 communicate how the external 
auditor has planned to use the work of the internal audit function. (Ref: Para. A23)  
 
 
 
 
                                                           
28  SLAuS 260, Communication with Those Charged with Governance, paragraph 15 

<!-- page 73 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 73A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function  
 
19.  If the external auditor plans to use the work of the internal audit function, the external auditor shall discuss 
the planned use of its work with the function as a basis for coordinating their respective activities. (Ref: 
Para. A24–A26)  
 
20.  The external auditor shall read the reports of the internal audit function relating to the work of the function 
that the external auditor plans to use to obtain an understanding of the nature and extent of audit procedures 
it performed and the related findings.  
 
21.  The external auditor shall perform sufficient audit procedures on the body of work of the internal audit 
function as a whole that the external auditor plans to use to determine its adequacy for purposes of the 
audit, including evaluating whether:  
 
(a)  The work of the function had been properly planned, performed, supervised, reviewed and 
documented;  
 
(b)  Sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained to enable the function to draw reasonable 
conclusions; and  
 
(c)  Conclusions reached are appropriate in the circumstances and the reports prepared by the function are 
consistent with the results of the work performed. (Ref: Para. A27–A30)  
 
22.  The nature and extent of the external auditor’s audit procedures shall be responsive to the external auditor’s 
evaluation of:  
 
(a)  The amount of judgment involved;  
 
(b)  The assessed risk of material misstatement;  
 
(c)  The extent to which the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and 
procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors; and  
 
(d)  The level of competence of the function;29 (Ref: Para. A27–A29)  
 
and shall include reperformance of some of the work. (Ref: Para. A30)  
 
23.  The external auditor shall also evaluate whether the external auditor’s conclusions regarding the internal 
audit function in paragraph 13 of this SLAuS and the determination of the nature and extent o f use of the 
work of the function for purposes of the audit in paragraphs 16–17 of this SLAuS remain appropriate.  
 
Documentation  
 
24.  If the external auditor uses the work of the internal audit function, the external auditor shall include in the 
audit documentation:  
 
(a)  The evaluation of:  
 
(i)  Whether the function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately 
support the objectivity of the internal auditors;  
 
(ii)  The level of competence of the function; and  
 
(iii)  Whether the function applies a systematic and disciplined approach, including quality control;  
 
(b)  The nature and extent of the work used and the basis for that decision; and  
 
                                                           
29  See paragraph 16. 

<!-- page 74 -->

74A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
(c)  The audit procedures performed by the external auditor to evaluate the adequacy of the work used.  
*** 
Application and Other Explanatory Material  
 
Definition of Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 2, 12)  
 
A1.  The objectives and scope of internal audit functions typically include assurance and consulting activities 
designed to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the entity’s governance processes, risk management 
and internal control such as the following:  
 
Activities Relating to Governance  
 
 The internal audit function may assess the governance process in its accomplishment of objectives on 
ethics and values, performance management and accountability, communicating risk and control 
information to appropria te areas of the organization and effectiveness of communication among those 
charged with governance, external and internal auditors, and management.  
 
Activities Relating to Risk Management  
 
 The internal audit function may assist the entity by identifying and evaluating significant exposures to 
risk and contributing to the improvement of risk management and internal control (including 
effectiveness of the financial reporting process).  
 
 The internal audit function may perform procedures to assist the entity in the detection of fraud.  
 
Activities Relating to Internal Control  
 
 Evaluation of internal control. The internal audit function may be assigned specific responsibility for 
reviewing controls, evaluating their operation and recommending improvements thereto. In doing so, the 
internal audit function provides assurance on the control. For example, the internal audit function might 
plan and perform tests or other procedures to provide assurance to management and those charged with 
governance regarding the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal control, 
including those controls that are relevant to the audit.  
 
 Examination of financial and operating information. The internal audit function may be assigned to 
review the means used to identify, recognize, measure, classify and report financial and operating 
information, and to make specific inquiry into individual items, including detailed testing of transactions, 
balances and procedures.  
 
 Review of operating activities. The internal audit function may be assigned to review the economy, 
efficiency and effectiveness of operating activities, including non-financial activities of an entity.  
 
 Review of compliance with laws and regulations. The internal audit function may be assigned to review 
compliance with laws, regulations and other external requirements, and with management policies and 
directives and other internal requirements.  
 
A2.  Activities similar to those performed by an internal audit function may be conducted by functions with 
other titles within an entity. Some or all of the activities of an internal audit function may also be outsourced 
to a third-party service provider. Neither the title of the function, nor whether it is performed by the entity 
or a third-party service provider, are sole determinants of whether or not the external auditor can use the 
work of the function. Rather, it is the nature of the activities; the extent to which the internal audit function’s 
organizational status and relevant policies and procedures support the objectivity of the internal auditors; 
competence; and systematic and disciplined approach of the function that are releva nt. References in this 

<!-- page 75 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 75A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
SLAuS to the work of the internal audit function include relevant activities of other functions or third-party 
providers that have these characteristics.  
 
A3.  In addition, those in the entity with operational and managerial duties and responsibilities outside of the 
internal audit function would ordinarily face threats to their objectivity that would preclude them from 
being treated as part of an internal audit function for the purpose of this SLAuS, although they may perform 
control activities that can be tested in accordance with SLAuS 330. 30 For this reason, monitoring controls 
performed by an owner-manager would not be considered equivalent to an internal audit function.  
 
A4.  While the objectives of an entity’s internal audit function and the external auditor differ, the function may 
perform audit procedures similar to those performed by the external auditor in an audit of financial 
statements. If so, the external auditor may make use of the function for purposes of the audit in one or more 
of the following ways:  
 
 To obtain information that is relevant to the external auditor’s assessments of the risks of material 
misstatement due to error or fraud. In this regard, SLAuS 315 (R evised)31 requires the external auditor 
to obtain an understanding of the nature of the internal audit function’s responsibilities, its status within 
the organization, and the activities performed, or to be performed, and make inquiries of appropriate 
individuals within the internal audit function (if the entity has such a function); or  
 
 Unless prohibited, or restricted to some extent, by law or regulation, the external auditor, after 
appropriate evaluation, may decide to use work that has been performed by  the internal audit function 
during the period in partial substitution for audit evidence to be obtained directly by the external 
auditor.32 
 
Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work of the Internal Audit Function 
Can Be Used  
 
Evaluating the Internal Audit Function  
 
Objectivity and Competence (Ref: Para. 13(a)–(b))  
 
A5.  The external auditor exercises professional judgment in determining whether the work of the internal audit 
function can be used for purposes of the audit, and the nature and extent to which the work of the internal 
audit function can be used in the circumstances.  
   
A6.  The extent to which the internal audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures 
support the objectivity of the internal auditors and the level of competence of the function are particularly 
important in determi ning whether to use and, if so, the nature and extent of the use of the work of the 
function that is appropriate in the circumstances.  
A7.  Objectivity refers to the ability to perform those tasks without allowing bias, conflict of interest or undue 
influence of others to override professional judgments. Factors that may affect the external auditor’s 
evaluation include the following:  
 
 Whether the organizational status of the internal audit function, including the function’s authority and 
accountability, s upports the ability of the function to be free from bias, conflict of interest or undue 
influence of others to override professional judgments. For example, whether the internal audit function 
reports to those charged with governance or an officer with app ropriate authority, or if the function 
reports to management, whether it has direct access to those charged with governance.  
 
 Whether the internal audit function is free of any conflicting responsibilities, for example, having 
managerial or operational duties or responsibilities that are outside of the internal audit function.  
                                                           
30  See paragraph 8. 
31  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 6(a) 
32  See paragraphs 13–23. 

<!-- page 76 -->

76A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 
 Whether those charged with governance oversee employment decisions related to the internal audit 
function, for example, determining the appropriate remuneration policy.  
 
 Whether there are any constraints or restrictions placed on the internal audit function by management or 
those charged with governance, for example, in communicating the internal audit function’s findings to 
the external auditor.  
 
 Whether the internal auditors are members of relevant professional bodies and their memberships 
obligate their compliance with relevant professional standards relating to objectivity, or whether their 
internal policies achieve the same objectives.  
 
A8.  Competence of the internal audit function refers to the attainment and maintenance of knowledge and skills 
of the function as a whole at the level required to enable assigned tasks to be performed diligently and in 
accordance with applicable professional st andards. Factors that may affect the external auditor’s 
determination include the following:  
 
 Whether the internal audit function is adequately and appropriately resourced relative to the size of the 
entity and the nature of its operations.  
 
 Whether there are established policies for hiring, training and assigning internal auditors to internal audit 
engagements.  
 
 Whether the internal auditors have adequate technical training and proficiency in auditing. Relevant 
criteria that may be considered by the external auditor in making the assessment may include, for 
example, the internal auditors’ possession of a relevant professional designation and experience.  
 
 Whether the internal auditors possess the required knowledge relating to the entity’s financial reporting 
and the applicable financial reporting framework and whether the internal audit function possesses the 
necessary skills (for example, industry -specific knowledge) to perform work related to the entity’s 
financial statements.  
 
 Whether the internal auditors are members of relevant professional bodies that oblige them to comply 
with the relevant professional standards including continuing professional development requirements.  
 
A9.  Objectivity and competence may be viewed as a c ontinuum. The more the internal audit function’s 
organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately support the objectivity of the internal 
auditors and the higher the level of competence of the function, the more likely the external aud itor may 
make use of the work of the function and in more areas. However, an organizational status and relevant 
policies and procedures that provide strong support for the objectivity of the internal auditors cannot 
compensate for the lack of sufficient co mpetence of the internal audit function. Equally, a high level of 
competence of the internal audit function cannot compensate for an organizational status and policies and 
procedures that do not adequately support the objectivity of the internal auditors.  
 
Application of a Systematic and Disciplined Approach (Ref: Para. 13(c))  
 
A10. The application of a systematic and disciplined approach to planning, performing, supervising, reviewing 
and documenting its activities distinguishes the activities of the int ernal audit function from other 
monitoring control activities that may be performed within the entity.  
   
A11. Factors that may affect the external auditor’s determination of whether the internal audit function applies 
a systematic and disciplined approach include the following:  
 

<!-- page 77 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 77A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
 The existence, adequacy and use of documented internal audit procedures or guidance covering such 
areas as risk assessments, work programs, documentation and reporting, the nature and extent of which 
is commensurate with the size and circumstances of an entity.  
 
 Whether the internal audit function has appropriate quality control policies and procedures, for 
example, such as those policies and procedures in ISQC 1 33 that would be applicable to an internal 
audit function (such as those relating to leadership, human resources and engagement performance) or 
quality control requirements in standards set by the relevant professional bodies for internal auditors. 
Such bodies may also establish other appropriate requirements such as conducting periodic external 
quality assessments.  
 
Circumstances When Work of the Internal Audit Function Cannot Be Used (Ref: Para. 14)  
 
A12. The external auditor’s evaluation of whether the internal audit function’s organizational status and 
relevant policies and procedures adequately  support the objectivity of the internal auditors, the level of 
competence of the internal audit function, and whether it applies a systematic and disciplined approach 
may indicate that the risks to the quality of the work of the function are too significa nt and therefore it is 
not appropriate to use any of the work of the function as audit evidence.  
 
A13. Consideration of the factors in paragraphs A7, A8 and A11 of this SLAuS  individually and in aggregate 
is important because an individual factor is often not sufficient to conclude that the work of the internal 
audit function cannot be used for purposes of the audit. For example, the internal audit function’s 
organizational st atus is particularly important in evaluating threats to the objectivity of the internal 
auditors. If the internal audit function reports to management, this would be considered a significant threat 
to the function’s objectivity unless other factors such as  those described in paragraph A7 of this SLAuS 
collectively provide sufficient safeguards to reduce the threat to an acceptable level.  
 
A14. In addition, the CA Sri Lanka Code 34 states that a self-review threat is created when the external auditor 
accepts an engagement to provide internal audit services to an audit client, and the results of those services 
will be used in conducting the audit. This is because of the possibility that the engagement team will use 
the results of the internal audit service without properly evaluating those results or without exercising the 
same level of professional skepticism as would be exercised when the internal audit work is performed 
by individuals who are not members of the firm. The CA Sri Lanka Code35 discusses the prohibitions that 
apply in certain circumstances and the safeguards that can be applied to reduce the threats to an acceptable 
level in other circumstances.  
 
Determining the Nature and Extent of Work of the Internal Audit Function that Can Be Used  
 
Factors Affecting the Determination of the Nature and Extent of the Work of the Internal Audit Function that 
Can Be Used (Ref: Para. 15–17)  
 
A15.  Once the external auditor has determined that the work of the internal audit function can be used for 
purposes of the audit, a first consideration is whether the planned nature and scope of the work of the 
internal audit function that has been performed, or is planned to be performed, is relevant to the overall 
audit strategy and audit plan that the external auditor has established in accordance with SLAuS 300.1536  
 
                                                           
33  Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Control (SLSQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and 
Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements 
34  The CA Sri Lanka Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (CA Sri Lanka Code), Section 290.199  
35  CA Sri Lanka Code, Section 290.195–290.200  
36  SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements 

<!-- page 78 -->

78A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
A16.  Examples of work of the internal audit function that can be used by the external auditor include the 
following:  
 
 Testing of the operating effectiveness of controls.  
 
 Substantive procedures involving limited judgment.  
 
 Observations of inventory counts.  
 
 Tracing transactions through the information system relevant to financial reporting.  
 
 Testing of compliance with regulatory requirements.  
 
 In some circumstances, aud its or reviews of the financial information of subsidiaries that are not 
significant components to the group (where this does not conflict with the requirements of SLAuS 
600).37  
 
A17.  The external auditor’s determination of the planned nature and extent o f use of the work of the internal 
audit function will be influenced by the external auditor’s evaluation of the extent to which the internal 
audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately support the 
objectivity of the internal auditors and the level of competence of the internal audit function in paragraph 
16 of this SLAuS. In addition, the amount of judgment needed in planning, performing and evaluating 
such work and the assessed risk of material misstatement at the  assertion level are inputs to the external 
auditor’s determination. Further, there are circumstances in which the external auditor cannot use the 
work of the internal audit function for purpose of the audit as described in paragraph 14 of this SLAuS.  
 
Judgments in planning and performing audit procedures and evaluating results (Ref: Para. 16(a))  
 
A18.  The greater the judgment needed to be exercised in planning and performing the audit procedures and 
evaluating the audit evidence, the external auditor w ill need to perform more procedures directly in 
accordance with paragraph 16 of this SLAuS, because using the work of the internal audit function alone 
will not provide the external auditor with sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  
 
A19.  Since the exte rnal auditor has sole responsibility for the audit opinion expressed, the external auditor 
needs to make the significant judgments in the audit engagement in accordance with paragraph 16. 
Significant judgments include the following:  
 
 Assessing the risks of material misstatement;  
 
 Evaluating the sufficiency of tests performed;  
 
 Evaluating the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern assumption;  
 
 Evaluating significant accounting estimates; and  
 Evaluating the adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements, and other matters affecting the 
auditor’s report.  
 
Assessed risk of material misstatement (Ref: Para. 16(b))  
 
A20.  For a particular account balance, class of transaction or disclosure, the higher an assessed risk of material 
misstatement at the assertion level, the more judgment is often involved in planning and performing the 
audit procedures and evaluating the results thereof. In such circumstances, the external auditor will need 
                                                           
37  SLAuS 600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors 

<!-- page 79 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 79A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
to perform more procedures directly in accordance with paragraph 16 of this SLAuS, and accordingly, 
make less use of the work of the internal audit function in obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence. 
Furthermore, as explained in SLAuS 200, 38 the higher the assessed risks of material misstatement, the 
more persuasive the audit evidence required by the external auditor will need to be, and, therefore, the 
external auditor will need to perform more of the work directly.  
 
A21.  As explained in SLAuS 315 (Revised),39 significant risks require special audit consideration and therefore 
the external auditor’s ability to use the work of the internal audit function in relation to significant risk s 
will be restricted to procedures that involve limited judgment. In addition, where the risk of material 
misstatement is other than low, the use of the work of the internal audit function alone is unlikely to 
reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level a nd eliminate the need for the external auditor to perform 
some tests directly.  
 
A22.  Carrying out procedures in accordance with this SLAuS may cause the external auditor to reevaluate the 
external auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatemen t. Consequently, this may affect the 
external auditor’s determination of whether to use the work of the internal audit function and whether 
further application of this SLAuS is necessary.  
 
Communication with Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 18)  
 
A23.  In accordance with SLAuS 260,40 the external auditor is required to communicate with those charged with 
governance an overview of the planned scope and timing of the audit. The planned use of the work of the 
internal audit function is an integral par t of the external auditor’s overall audit strategy and is therefore 
relevant to those charged with governance for their understanding of the proposed audit approach.  
 
Using the Work of the Internal Audit Function  
 
Discussion and Coordination with the Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 19)  
 
A24.  In discussing the planned use of their work with the internal audit function as a basis for coordinating the 
respective activities, it may be useful to address the following:  
 
 The timing of such work.  
 
 The nature of the work performed.  
 
 The extent of audit coverage.  
 
 Materiality for the financial statements as a whole (and, if applicable, materiality level or levels for 
particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures), and performance materiality.  
 
 Proposed methods of item selection and sample sizes. 
 
 Documentation of the work performed.  
 
 Review and reporting procedures.  
 
A25.  Coordination between the external auditor and the internal audit function is effective when, for example:  
 
 Discussions take place at appropriate intervals throughout the period.  
 
 The external auditor informs the internal audit function of significant matters that may affect the 
function.  
 
                                                           
38  SLAuS 200, paragraph A29  
39  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph 4(e) 
40  SLAuS 260, paragraph 15 

<!-- page 80 -->

80A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2015  
 
 
 The external auditor is advised of and has access to relevant reports o f the internal audit function and 
is informed of any significant matters that come to the attention of the function when such matters 
may affect the work of the external auditor so that the external auditor is able to consider the 
implications of such matters for the audit engagement.  
 
A26.  SLAuS 20041 discusses the importance of the auditor planning and performing the audit with professional 
skepticism, including being alert to information that brings into question the reliability of documents and 
responses to inquiries to be used as audit evidence. Accordingly, communication with the internal audit 
function throughout the engagement may provide opportunities for internal auditors to bring matters that 
may affect the work of the external auditor to the external auditor’s attention. 42 The external auditor is 
then able to take such information into account in the external auditor’s identification and assessment of 
risks of material misstatement. In addition, if such information may be indicative of a he ightened risk of 
a material misstatement of the financial statements or may be regarding any actual, suspected or alleged 
fraud, the external auditor can take this into account in the external auditor’s identification of risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud in accordance with SLAuS 240.43 
 
Procedures to Determine the Adequacy of Work of the Internal Audit Function (Ref: Para. 21–22)  
 
A27.  The external auditor’s audit procedures on the body of work of the internal audit function as a whole that 
the external auditor plans to use provide a basis for evaluating the overall quality of the function’s work 
and the objectivity with which it has been performed.  
 
A28.  The procedures the external auditor may perform to evaluate the quality of the work performed and the 
conclusions reached by the internal audit function, in addition to reperformance in accordance with 
paragraph 22, include the following:  
 
 Making inquiries of appropriate individuals within the internal audit function.  
 
 Observing procedures performed by the internal audit function. 
 
 Reviewing the internal audit function’s work program and working papers.  
 
A29.  The more judgment involved, the higher the assessed risk of material misstatement, the less the internal 
audit function’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures adequately support the 
objectivity of the internal auditors, or the lower the level of competence of the internal audit function, the 
more audit procedures are needed to be performed by the external auditor on the overall body of work of 
the function to support the decision to use the work of the function in obtaining sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence on which to base the audit opinion.  
Reperformance (Ref: Para. 22)  
 
A30.  For purposes of this SLAuS, reperformance  involves the external auditor’s independent execution of 
procedures to validate the conclusions reached by the internal audit function. This objective may be 
accomplished by examining items already examined by the internal audit function, or where it is n ot 
possible to do so, the same objective may also be accomplished by examining sufficient other similar 
items not actually examined by the internal audit function. Reperformance provides more persuasive 
evidence regarding the adequacy of the work of the internal audit function compared to other procedures 
                                                           
41  SLAuS 200, paragraphs 15 and A18 
42  SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A116 
43 SLAuS 315 (Revised), paragraph A11 in relation to SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial 
Statements 

<!-- page 81 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03.02 81A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015  
 
the external auditor may perform in paragraph A28. While it is not necessary for the external auditor to 
do reperformance in each area of work of the internal audit function that is being used, some 
reperformance is required on the body of work of the internal audit function as a whole that the external 
auditor plans to use in accordance with paragraph 22. The external auditor is more likely to focus 
reperformance in those areas where more judgment was exer cised by the internal audit function in 
planning, performing and evaluating the results of the audit procedures and in areas of higher risk of 
material misstatement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 