

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
437
wxl 1"865 - 2014 uehs 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'05'30
No. 1,865 – FRIDAY , MAY 30, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 438
By-Laws ... 438
437
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th June, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th June,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
P. H. L. V . D
E SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Ranjith Siyambalapitiya Friendship Foundation (Incorporation)  Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka of May 09, 2014.
N.B.—  Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,864 of 23.05.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
438
Local Government Notifications
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Naming of Road or Path
IT is hereby notified that the “Dungalpitiya Path of Lakshmi Janavasa” and the land “Lakshmi Janvasa” in the area of the Yakvil a Sub
Office of Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha has been re-named as “Somarathna Adikari Path” and “Adikari Pura” respectively since 20.01.2014
with the approval of the Honourable Provincial Minister-in-charge of Local Government under Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 198 7 -
Section 198 in accordance with the proposal 3/27 of Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha General Assembly held on 29.10.2013.
L. M. S. K. RANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
Pannala.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha Main Office,
Pannala,
20th March, 2014.
05–776
By-Laws
PELMADULLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-law
IT is hereby notified in terms of powers vested in me under Section
123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, that I, the Minister in charge of the
subject of Local Government, Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,
have approved the following resolution passed by the Pelmadulla
Pradeshiya Sabha within the administrative division of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council by virtue of powers vested in it
under section 122 and 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
M
AHEEPALA HERATH,
The Minister in charge of the subject of
 Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
03rd of May, 2014.
BY-LAW TO MAKE PROVISIONS FOR REGULATING AND
CONTROLLING PUBLIC LIBRARIES
01. This By-law is enacted by Palmadulla to regulate and rule
the library service through providing various resources and services
to fulfill the recreative and creative necessities, to develop
personality and personal discipline to develop interest for reading
and developing the education of the people in Palmadulla Pradeshiya
Sabha area.
02. Public library of Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha is consisting
some of the following or all as the necessities of the people of
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(i) Circulation Section
(ii) Reference Section
(iii) Children’s Section
(iv) Periodicals and News Papers
(v) Study Section
(vi) Depository Section
(vii) Mobile and Branch Libraries
(viii) Other Information Services
03. There must be a librarian in the public library of Pelmadulla
Pradeshiya Sabha and the person who is appointed must response
to the Pradeshiya Sabha regarding conducting the management and
administration of the public library.
04. The supervision and general administration shall be hand in
to a Library Advisory Committee (Hereinafter mentioned as the
‘library committee’).
(i) This committee shall be appointed annually. It shall be
consist of the following people.
* Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
* Members not more than three who are selected from
among the members of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
* One representative to represent each religion that
are belived by the people of the area.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
439
* Distinctive people who live in the Pradeshiya Sabha
area not more than three selected by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
* Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha.
* Community Co-ordinating Officer of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
* Librarian of the main library of Pradeshiya Sabha.
* A principal of the area.
* A representative of a Praja Mandalaya of the area.
(ii) The Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the Chairman
of the Committee by virtue office and he shall chair
every meeting of the committee. In an occasion of the
absence of the Chairman, a Chair Person shall be
appointed from among the members by the members of
the committee.
(iii) The Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the
convener.
(iv) The librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha
shall be the Secretary of the committee.
(v) The quorum shall be 1/3 from the number of the
members.
(vi) The members who designates the chair must have one
initial vote and a conservative vote, in the case of Number
of lateral and a vase votes equals regarding any problem.
05. Obtaining Membership :
(i) Any person expecting library services must be received
an application from librarian after paying fee decided
by the approved motion. The membership must be
requested through above application and that application
must be attestate by any of the following persons :
* Grama Niladhari in living area
* Justice of peace
* Councilor of Pradeshiya Sabha
* Executive officer in Government service or
Provincial Government Service.
* If application is a school applicant attester must be
his class teacher or principle.
(ii) There must be the following qualifications to get library
membership :
* To get general membership, he must be living in
Pradeshiya Sabha administrative limits or property
owner or must have permanent occupation.
* To get school membership, the student above 5 years
old and is learning in school or Pirivena with in the
administrative limits.
(iii) Membership fee .– The annual membership fee for the
general members is Rs. 100. It must be renewed after
paying Rs. 30 annually.
The membership fees for the school members Rs. 50
and it must be renewed annually after paying Rs. 15.
Otherwise the membership fee can be decided by the
recommendations of committee through approved
motion of Pradeshiya Sabha. Thus, the fees decided
from the Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha according to
committee recommendation can be enact for external
persons who have not membership in library. For using
reference section and other sections except discard
section.
(iv) Guarantors.– The Guarantors for school members must
be mother/father/caretaker/principle/class teacher. The
signing guarantors for general members must be officer
in Government, Permanent Officer in Provincial
Government Service who obtain annual salary or great
person living in the area, other member of family or
taxpayer.
06. Two books can be borrowed at one time from permit issued
by the discard library for their members and the member must
responsible for their borrowed books.
07. Discard books borrowed by the library members must be
handed over to librarian within 14 days.
08. If certain member omission to handover books to librarian
within mentioned 14 days the fine for general members per one day
is Rs. 2 that exceeding the date of hand over and Rs. 1 fine for
school members or subject to pay certain fine decided by the
committee recommendation of Sabha through approved motion with
reference to the 7th section in this by-law.
09. In the situation of certain member omission to handover
discard books exceeding 14 days and within the 30 days, consider
as that book is a missing book.
10. In the situation of that particular book was consider as lost
book, the member must pay value of the book and 25% department
fee of the book value and the fine mentioned in the 8th paragraph of
this By-law.
11. Member must not damage or do any certain deform to the
discard books.
12. The duty of the all members must be informing to the
librarian regarding damages or deforms to the books, which they
expect to discard. If any member is failed inform to librarian regarding
that type of damage or deform, that  book is considered as issued
with no damaged or no deformed.
13. If the librarian decide that particular handover books can’t
be issued again due to damages and deforms, all members must be
obligate to afford the value of the book to procure that book again.
After procure that book the damaged book should be given to the
member with the seal as “sold as damage book”.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
440
14. (i) The books borrowed from the library must not be
alienated by any member.
(ii) The memb ership must be revocation of any member
that deviation of commitments including above 13(1)
section.
15. Any member must not handover any book that be knows
that book is used by the person suffering from the infection disease
or tangent disease.
If that discard book is used by any person suffering in faction
disease or tangent disease. That book must be destroyed and that
member must pay relevant expenditures to librarian for procure
that book again.
16. The librarian must solve disputes arising with borrowed
books that risen between two members or among more members.
17. If any member requesting any discard book from library and
that book must be issued to that requesting applicant. But if that
book has been already issued to another member at the time of
requesting, the librarian must record the requesting applicants names
in the continuance document and must be issued to the particular
requested applicant after receiving that book to library again.
18. The discard library will be open daily during 8.30 a. m. to
4.30 p. m. time period. Discard library closed to get stocks with
commandment of the committee mentioned 07 days notice to the
members including Sundays and Saturdays. But opening time and
days of the library can be changed with desire of the Sabha.
19. Reference Section :
* The reference books can be used after signing the register
keep in the reference department and with permission of
librarian.
* Any library book or magazine or other things that were
issued to reading purpose should not bring out from the
reference department.
Any person can request photocopies of necessary pages
of any publish have been received relevant photocopies
after paying certain fees and with the permission and
guardianship of librarian if there is a photocopy service
inside the library.
20. Reading Room.– The Reading Room of the library is opened
during the time of 8.30 a. m. to 4.15 p. m. daily or have been opened
during the days and times that decided by the Sabha. Any person
can use the reading room after mentioning the name and arrival time
of the register that is kept in the reading room.
* Any paper, magazine, map or other library things that
keep in the library or own to library could not be damage
or bring out from the library.
21. Any Person :
* Should not behave boorishly or nuisance inside the library
premises or around.
* Any loss to property or any deform should not be done
to any building or part of the building around the
Pradeshiya Sabha or inside the library.
* Should not take alcohol after library time, smoking or
spat inside the library premises.
* Should not gamble with dice or card pack prohibited inside
the library premises.
* Should not disturb to the library users shouting, singing
or making other noises or using mobile phones.
* Should not enter to the library premises untidily.
* Should not sleep or eat food inside the library premises.
* Should not disturb to librarian or any authorized person
active under orders of librarian for implement his authority
legally.
22. Any person recently suffering from infection or skin disease
or otherwise any person affection to such person should not enter
the library premises before exceeding the spreading period of that
disease.
23. Breaking any rule of these By-laws is an offence and when
someone is convicted for an offence by a Court of Justice with
proper jurisdiction subject to fine constitute by 122(2) section of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and if the rule is being broken
and if it is being done after informing by a written notice of the
Chairman, Secretary or other authorized person of Pradeshiya
Sabha, the offender must be subjected to an additional fine mentioned
in section 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
24. If otherwise an other meaning shall be necessary the word
depicted as Chairman in By-law stands for Chairman of the
Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha, the word depicted as Secretary stands
for Secretary of the Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha the word depicted
as Librarian stand for main officer that works as bearer of the
public library of the Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha that designated
from the Sabaragamuwa Commission of the Provincial Government
Service or any other officer mobilization to that position.
The library materials stands for written, printed, abundance
visible medias and electronic medias.
25. If any difference causes in connection with the By-law,
Sinhala copy shall be at any time accepted as valid.
05–777

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
441
WARAKAPOLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Amendment to the By-law Relating to Maintenance of a
Crematorium
THE Sub-section 01 of the section 03 of the by-law relating to
maintenance of a crematorium in the notification published by the
Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha and indicated in page No. 1,352 in
Section IV(A) of the Gazette dated 18.07.2008 is amended as
follows :
01. The death certificate of the deceased issued by the Registrar
who registered the death or the death notice certificate issued as per
Form B 16 under paragraph (41) (1) (a) of the Registration of
Births and Deaths Ordinance should be submitted.
K. W
IJETHUNGA,
Chairman.
At Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Warakapola,
12th May, 2014.
05–854
–––––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By-law
IT is hereby notified in terms of powers vested in me under Section
123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, that I, the Minister in charge of the
subject of Local Government, Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,
have approved the following resolution passed by the Pelmadulla
Pradeshiya Sabha within the administrative division of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council by virtue of powers vested in it
under Section 122 and 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
M
AHEEPALA HERATH,
The Minister in Charge of the subject of
 Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
03rd of May, 2014.
BY-LAW TO MAKE PLACES FOR PARKING VEHICLES
AND CHARGING FEES FROM THE VEHICLES OF THE
ADMINISTRATIVE LIMITS OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. This By-law may be sited as the By-law to create locations
for parking vehicles and charging fees from parked vehicles and
controlling the vehicle parking of the Administrative Limits inclusive
to the Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. This By-law shall be enacted to create a location for parking
vehicles and controlling the vehicle parking and charging fees for
that purpose within the administrative limits of Palmadulla
Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. In future the word depicted as Chairman stands for the
Chairman of the Palmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha and notices must be
demonstrated in prominent place in the street or other wise part of
the street, mentioning the location for provisioning to vehicle parking
prohibition or controlling vehicle parking in any street, part of the
street within the administrative limits.
04. At the time of vehicle parking or prohibition of vehicle
parking is noticed under 3rd By-law a vehicle driver must not
(a) Acting according to any notice or road sign which has
been built or exhibit in that street or a part of that street
by certain authority or any officer ; or
(b) Following the proper order of vehicle transportation of
that route in that certain time ; or
(c) Stop in the street or part of a street for loading or
unloading more than necessary for that task.
05. Except a person possess a valid permit issued by the
Chairman after the fees mentioned in 1st schedule of this By-law
any person must not park the vehicle in the car park established
under 3rd Sub-schedule of the By-law.
06. According to 3rd Schedule of this By-law the locations
allocate for the vehicle parking can be revise and can be publish on
the Gazette Notice under the 5th By-law. According to the mention
in 1st Schedule fee must be charged for the permits issued under the
15th By-law through approved motion from Sabha and under
publishing in before mentioned amendment.
07. Monthly or annual permit can be obtained for the motor
vehicles which belong to Government Department or Corporation
or Non Corporation Personal Board by paying periodically defined
monthly charges to Sabha for the Motor Vehicles of the Government
Department or Corporation or Non Corporation Personal Board
topically.
08. The Identify Card number of the Motor Vehicle must be
mention in all permits issued under this By-law and it should be
valid till mentioned time period in the permit.
09. All people who obtain a permit under this by-law and must
be displayed that permit in prominent showing place of the vehicle,
to see out sides.
10. The Police Officer or Motor Traffic Controller can be ask
from the vehicle owner or otherwise from the diver to present the
permit issued for that motor vehicle for examine within the public
location of vehicle parking.
11. Certain person should not park vehicles inside the public
location of vehicle parking, when that parking location allocate for
the certain exact class or type of motor vehicles.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
442
12. A motor vehicle should not be parked by any person, in a
public park to block any other vehicle which enter or exit from a
public park.
13. When there are sign boards in a public park to show the
ways which have been made for entrance and exit any motor vehicle
should not enter or exit by any road other than the due road.
14. If public parking consist of chains or columns or both chains
and columns, all motor vehicles must be parked according to order
of arrival each behind and be facing to one side and the vehicles
should take forward according to the order when a space is available.
15. Any person should not wash or arrange to wash vehicles
during the parking time in the Public Vehicle Park.
16. If otherwise it wants an essential repair for the vehicles for
the purpose of remove a vehicle from a public vehicle park a vehicle
which has been stopped in a public vehicle park must not be
repaired.
17. This by-law must be function during the 6.00 a. m. to 6.00
p. m. time period. This time can be revised from the published
Gazette Notice by the Chairman.
18. The Chairmen have authority to release the paying certain
fees to certain class of persons from written statement.
19. Any person who break any of these by-laws shall be an
offender and when he is an offender in a Judicial Court, he is
subjected to a fine mentioned in Section 122(2) of No. 15 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, of 1987 and for each day that offence is
being continued, he will be subjected to a extra punishment which
has been constituted by Section 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
20. If otherwise an other meaning shall be necessary the word
depicted as Chairman in By-law stands for Chairman of the
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
21. The word “Police Officer” stands for the Police Officer in
the Sri Lanka Police Department.
22. The word “Motor Traffic Controller” stands for the
authorized person given authority by Chairman, who issues permits
for vehicle parking behalf of the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
23. It is legitimate to use permanent hiring vehicle parks for
other special purposes or parking motor vehicles for other purposes
in those parks in special occasions on a special permit issued by
the Chairman.
24. Every applicant who obtained an annual permit completing
the due format must get renewed the permit paying due payment
mentioned in 2nd schedule, before the end of the first month of the
relevant year.
SUB-SCHEDULE No. 01
Fee for the first hour Fee for additional hour Fee for hour or part
or part of the first or part of the hour of the hour at the
hour exceeding one hour and not time of exceeding
exceeding four hours four hours
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
(a) For Motor Cycle No No No
(b) For a Motor Vehicle or a 20 0 10 0 10 0
Motor  Coach
(c) For a tractor with a trailer or a lorry 30 0 10 0 10 0
(d) For a tractor without a trailer 20 0 10 0 10 0
(e) For a bus 30 0 10 0 10 0
SUB-SCHEDULE No. 02
For a month
Rs. cts.
(a) Monthly fee for a three wheeler 150 0
(b) Monthly fee for a car or a van -
(i) For a diesel vehicle 200 0
(ii) For a petrol, gas vehicle 200 0
(iii) Monthly fee for a small lorry 250 0
(c) Monthly fee for a tractor with or without a trailer 200 0
(d) Monthly fee for a bus 250 0

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
443
SUB-SCHEDULE No. 03
PLACES OF VEHICLE PARKING
01. In front of the Palmadulla Bus Stand
02. In front of the Palmadulla Seylan Bank
03. Near Boo tree in Palmadulla Balangoda Road
04. Near Boo tree in Palmadulla Rakwana Road
05. In front of the Palmadulla Co-operative Building
06. Near Kuttapitiya Vidyala Mawatha
07. In front of the Palmadulla Co-operative filling station
08. Near Palmadulla Malinga Enterprises
09. Palmadulla Batalanda Hill Top
10. Welihinda Junction
11. Panawenna Junction
12. Turning Junction of Ketethanna Police Station and Kovil
Junction
13. Near the Road of Kahawaththa Plantation Company
14. Near Kahawatha Tharuna Welandapola (Near Kattange Road)
15. Near Poronuwa Road
16. Near Bathgamgoda Junction
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
17. Meegahagoda Junction
18. Borala Junction
19. Neelagama Junction
20. Ganegama Junction
21. Midigahamulla Junction
22. Pathakada Junction
23. Kiriwaldeniya Junction
24. Sannasgama Palugampala Junction
25. Gallinna Junction
26. Lellopitiya Junction
27. Lellopitiya Hill Top (In front of the Rahula Vidyalaya)
28. Gonakumbura Junction
29. Marapana Mada Handiya
30. Near Marapana Sub-office
31. Near Bulugahathanna Vidyalaya
32. Panagama Junction
33. Hapurugala Junction
34. Alupotha Junction
35. Near Iahala Hakamuwa Kadamandiya
36. Near Baranduwa Kadamandiya
05–778