

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
w;s úfYI
wxl 2111$39 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 20 jeks nodod - 2019'02'20
No. 2111/39 - WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY, 20,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG 4394 — 37 (02/2019)
  The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS NOTIFICATIONS
NORTHERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Northern Province Business Names Statute No.01 of  2018
NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Business Names
Statute No. 01 of 2018 on 26th June 2018 and that the Hon. Governor Northern Province has given his Assent to it on 14 th
February 2019.
R. VARATHEESWARAN,
Secretary,
Council Secretariat,
Northern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A 9 Road,
Kaithady,
15th February 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
2 A
A STA TUTE  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF A  DEP ARTMENT  OF  REGISTRA TION
OF BUSINESS  NAMES  FOR  THE  NOR THERN  PROVINCE; FOR  THE  APPOINTMENT  OF  PROVINCIAL
REGISTRAR  OF  BUSINESS  NAMES;  FOR  THE  REGISTRA TION  OF PERSONS  CARRYING  ON
BUSINESS  IN  NORTHERN  PROVINCE  AND  THEIR  BUSINESS  NAME  AND FOR THE  MA TTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL THERETO. THIS  STA TUTE  IS  INCONSISTENT  WITH
THE  PROVISIONS  OF  BUSINESS  NAMES ACT,  No. 7  OF 1987.
Be it enacted by the Northern Provincial Council, of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows: -
1. This Statute may be cited as the Northern Province Business Names Statute, No. 01 of 2018 and shall
come into operation on such date as the Governor of the Northern Province may give his assent
thereto.
PART  I
Establishment  of a Department of  Registration of
Business  Names And Appointment Provincial
Registar of Business Names
2. There shall be established a Department known as Department of Registration of Business Names of
the Northern Province (hereinafter referred to as the "Department") for the purpose of carrying out
the objects of the Department.
3. (1) There shall be appointed a person to be as the Provincial Registrar (hereinafter referred to as the
"Provincial Registrar") who shall be the Head of the Department.
(2) There may be  appointed  such other officers and  servants as are necessary for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this Statute.
(3) Every person appointed as the Provincial Registrar shall hold a degree of a recognized university
or a professional qualification of a recognized professional body.
(4) The provisions of Part IV of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 shall apply to the appointment,
transfer, dismissal, disciplinary control of the staff of the Department.
(5) The Provincial Registrar shall be responsible for keeping a register of registered firms or  persons
and their registered business names, generally for the carrying out of the provisions of this Statute,
and for the collection of the fees payable under this Statute and payment of all amounts so collected
into the Northern Provincial Fund.
PART  II
Firms And Persons To Be Registered
4. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Statute, where a firm or a person is desirous to carry on business
within the Northern Province, the firm or person and the firm’s or person’s business name shall be
registered.
(2) Where a firm or person intends to carry on business within the Northern  Province  under  more
than one business name, there shall be separate registrations in respect of the firm or person and
each of those business names, and any reference, to registration in this Statute shall be construed
accordingly.
Short title and date
of operation
Establishment of
a Department of
Registration of
Business Names
Appointment of
Provincial
Registar & etc.
Registration

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
5. Subject to the provisions of this Statute-
(a)  every firm having a place of business in Northern Province and carrying on business
under a business name;
(b) every individual having a place of business in Northern Province and carrying on business
under a business name;
(c) every individual or firm having a place of business in Northern Province who, or a
member of which, has either before or after the commencement of this Statute changed
his name except in the case of a woman in consequence of marriage; and
(d) every corporation having a place of business in Northern Province and carrying on
business under a business name,
shall be registered in the manner provided by this Statute.
6. (1)  The following firms and persons shall not be required to be registered when carrying on business
within the Northern Province-
(a) any individual proprietor carrying on business under only the individual proprietor’s full
name;
(b) any addition to the business name merely indicates that the business is carried on in
succession to a former owner of the business;
(c) any firm of two or more individuals carrying on business under only the full names of all
the individuals;
(d) any statutory authority or other body established by or under any law for a public
purpose;
(e) any business carried on by the assignee of an insolvent estate, or a receiver or manager
or curator appointed by any court;
(f) a purchase or other acquisition of property by two or more persons is not of itself to be
deemed carrying on a business, whether or not the owners share any profits arising from
the sale thereof;
(g) any society registered under the V oluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration
and Supervision) Act, No.31 of 1980;
(h) any society registered under the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972;
(i) any trade union registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter 138);
(j) any foreign company carrying on business within the Northern Province which is
registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 and carries on the business under its
registered name; and
(k) any company carrying on business under its corporate name.
(2) A person who is not required to be registered but chooses to be registered shall be subject to
and shall comply with the provisions of this Statute for the period of time that the person is so
registered.
Firms and persons
to be registered
Firms and
persons
not required to
be registered
under this Statute

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
4 A
(3) For the purposes of this section —
(a) a reference to an individual or a person includes a class of individuals or a class of
persons, respectively; and
(b) a reference to an individual’s full name is-
(i) in the  case  of  an  individual  issued  with  a  national identity card under the
Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968, a reference to the individual’s full
name as stated in the individual’s national identity card; and
(ii) in the case of an individual not issued with an identity card under that Act, a
reference to the individual’s full name as stated in the individual’s passport or
such other similar evidence of identity as is acceptable to the Provincial Registrar.
PART  III
Registration of Business Names
7. (1) Every firm  or  person  carrying on or  commencing to carry on business under a business
name on or after the date of commencement of this Statute or for any other reason becoming
liable for registration after such date shall furnish a statement inwriting in the prescribed
form containing the following particulars-
(a) the business name and any transliteration thereof under which the business  is
carried on;
(b) the nature of the business;
(c) the principal place of business in Sri Lanka;
(d) the address of any branch office, stores or warehouse maintained for the purpose
of the business;
(e) the date of commencement of the business;
(f) where the business is carried on by an individual or  by the  partners of a firm
(where none of the partners is a corporation) the following particulars of such
individual or of every such partner-
(i) the present name in full,
(ii) any former name in full,
(iii) the date of birth,
(iv) the present nationality; and in the case of a non-national who has not
declared his nationality; the country of his birth,
(v) the usual residence,
(vi) the name of every other business, of which he is a proprietor, or partner
and the business name and registration number of any such business,
(vii) the  name  of  every  corporation  of   which  he  is a   director,  (viii)  the
name of every corporation in which he holds more than twenty-five  per
Commencement
of new business
of change in
business name

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
centum of the paid up share capital, whether in his own name or that of
his nominee or spouse or minor children,
(ix) the nature of any other business occupation;
(g) where  the business  is  carried on  by a  corporation or by a  firm  where  all  the
partners are  Corporations the following particulars of each such corporation-
(i) the corporate name,
(ii) the law under which incorporated,
(iii) the registration number of incorporation if any,
(iv) the address of the registered or principal office,
(v) the name and nationality of each of its directors,
(vi) such other particulars as the Minister in-charge of the subject may, by
notification published in the Gazette require;
(h) (i)     where  the  business  is  carried  on  by  a  firm  where one or more of the
          partners  are  individuals, particulars  referred  to  in  paragraph  (f); and
(ii)    where  the  business is  carried on by  a  firm  where  one  or  more  of the
          partners are  corporations, the particulars  referred  to  in paragraph (g);
 (i) in the case of a firm whether a partnership agreement has been reduced to
writing; and
 (j) any other business name under which the business is carried on;
         (k) such other particulars relating to membership of a trade chamber association
or trade commission, of the firm or person to be registered.
(2) The statement required to be furnished under subsection (1) shall be furnished within a period of
thirty days of such commencement or within such further period as the Provincial Registrar may
on application allow.
(3) The statement under subsection (1) shall be signed-
(a) in the case of an individual by him;
(b) in the case of a corporation by a director or secretary thereof; and
(c) in the case of a firm by all the partners.
8. (1) On receiving any statement made in pursuance of this Statute from any firm or person, the
Provincial Registrar shall, subject to the provisions of this Statute, cause the same to be
registered and filed of record, and he shall send by post or deliver to that firm or person a
certificate of registration.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
6 A
(2) The firm or person to whom the certificate of registration is issued under subsection (1) shall,
within fourteen days from the date of receipt thereof, keep exhibited in a conspicuous position
at the principal place of business and at every other place of business of that firm or person
such certificate or a certified copy thereof.
(3) Every firm or person registered under this Statute shall-
(a) cause its registered business name and registration certificate number to be painted or affixed
on the outside of every place in which the business is carried on, in a conspicuous position
in letters easily legible;
(b) disclose in its letter-heads-
(i) in the case of a business carried on by an individual or by the partners of a firm (where
none of the partners is a corporation) the business name and the name of the individual
or the names of all partners carrying on the business, the registration certificate number
of the business and the principal place of such business;
(ii) in the case of a business carried on by the partners of a firm (where one or more of the
partners is a corporation) the registered business name the name or names of partners
who are individuals, the corporate name and particulars of incorporation of all partners
which are corporations, the registration certificate number of the business and the
principal place of such business;
(iii) in the case of a business carried on by a corporation, the corporate name and the
particulars of incorporation of such corporation, the registration certificate number of
the business and the principal place of such business.
(4) Every firm or person registered under provisions of section 4 of this Statute shall, comply with
the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of this section.
(5) If a default is made in complying with the provisions of subsection (2) or subsection (3), every
person, and if such person is a partner of a firm every partner of that firm, and in the case of a
corporation every director and secretary thereof shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand
rupees.
(6) the registration of any statement or the certificate of such registration shall not be construed as
evidence prima facie or otherwise of the truth of the particulars in such statement except against
the person furnishing such particulars or statement.
9. At each of the register offices, the Provincial Registrar shall keep an index of all the business names
of firms and persons registered at that office under this Statute together with the serial number of
the registration, and at the principal office a general index of all the business names of  firms and
persons so registered at every office throughout Northern Province.
10. (1)Any firm or person within the Northern Province acting on behalf of a foreign principal whether
under a business name or otherwise for the general purpose of the business of such foreign
principal shall be registered in the manner provided by this Statute, and shall, in addition to the
particulars of such firm or person required under section 7, furnish the following particulars in
respect of each such foreign principal-
Provincial
Registrar to file
statement and
issue certificate
of registration
name board and
number to be
exhibited
Index to be kept
Firm or person
in Northern
Province acting
on behalf of
foreign principal
or foreign group

<!-- page 7 -->

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
(a) the business name and address, and the nature of the business of the foreign
principal; and
(b) the date when the firm or person within the Northern Province commenced to act, for
such foreign principal.
(2) Where the business of a firm or person referred to in subsection (1) consists wholly or mainly
acting on behalf of a foreign principal or on behalf of a foreign group, such firm or person shall, in
addition to furnishing the particulars required by subsection (1), furnish the following particulars
regarding that foreign principal or the member of that foreign group for which the said firm or
person generally transacts business-
(a) the situation of the principal office of the business wherever situated;
(b) the date of the commencement of the business;
(c) the place of business, if any, within the Northern Province;
(d) in the case of any individual who is a proprietor or partner-
(i) the present name in full;
(ii) the nationality; and
(iii) the usual residence:
(e) in the case of any corporation which is a proprietor or partner-
(i) the corporate name;
(ii) the law under which such corporation was incorporated; and
(iii) the registered principal office of such corporation.
(3) The Provincial Registrar may notify any firm or person referred to in this section carrying on
business within the Northern Province to furnish within the time set out in such notification such
additional particulars concerning a foreign principal or a member of a foreign group as may be
specified in such notification.
(4) In this section-
''foreign principal" means a firm or person carrying on business outside Sri Lanka;
and
"foreign group" means a group of foreign principals consisting of a foreign corporation
and any one or more of its subsidiaries, or consisting of any two or more subsidiaries
of a foreign corporation.
11. (1) Any individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or any firm where one of the  partners is a non-
citizen or any body corporate incorporated outside Sri Lanka,  who or which seeks  to carry  on
business  within  the Northern  Province, under  a business  name  shall  furnish  the  statement
required to be furnished under section 7 of this Statute.
(2)The business of the individual, firm or body corporate referred to in subsection (1) shall be carried
on  within the  Northern Province in the name of  such  individual,  firm or  body corporate,  by  a
person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka and resident in Sri Lanka, who shall be deemed to be the local
manager  and  such  local manager shall be personally responsible for the discharge of all obliga
tions attaching to the individual, firm or body corporate under this Statute.
Particulars to be
furnished by an
individual & C.,
who is a non-
citizen.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
8 A
12. No firm, individual or corporation shall carry on business within the Northern Province under a
business name which-
(a) contains the words-
(i) "President", "Presidential"', "National" "State" or "Sri Lanka" or which in
the opinion of the Provincial Registrar suggests, or is likely to suggest the
patronage of the President or any connection with the Government, any
ministry or department, or provincial council or provincial ministry or
department thereof;
(ii) "Municipal" or "incorporated'' or "company" or its abbreviation, or which in
the opinion of the Provincial Registrar suggests or is likely to suggest con-
nection with any municipality or other local authority or with any society or
body incorporated by Act of Parliament, Statute of Provincial Council or
otherwise; or
(iii) "corporation" or "society";
(b) if by reason of its nature of the use to which it would be put is contrary to morality or
public order and is likely to offend the religious or racial susceptibility of any community
or is likely to mislead trade or business circles or the public as to the nature of the trade
or business identified by that name;
(c) is a translation of such business name;
(d) is undesirable;
(e) is identical to that of any other registered business name, or the name of any corporation
or limited partnership; or
(f) is a name of a kind that the Minister has directed the Provincial Registrar, by notification
in the Gazette, not to accept for registration.
13. (1) A firm or person may apply to reserve a name as the firm’s or person’s proposed registered
business name by lodging an application and required fees with the Provincial Registrar.
(2) The Provincial Registrar may, subject to provisions of section 12 approve an application
made under subsection (1) only if the Provincial Registrar is satisfied that the application
is made in good faith.
(3) The Provincial Registrar shall refuse to approve an application to reserve a name under
subsection (1) if the Provincial Registrar is satisfied that
(a) the name is for a business that is likely to be used for an unlawful purpose or for
purposes prejudicial to public peace, welfare or good order within the Northern
Province;
(b) it would be contrary to the national security or interest for the business name to be
registered.
(4) Where  an  application  for  a  reservation  of a  name is  made  under subsection (1), the
Provincial Registrar shall  reserve the proposed registered business name for a period of
two months.
Reservation of
business names
Prohibited
business name

<!-- page 9 -->

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
14. (1) Whenever a change is made or occurs in any of in the particulars registered in respect of
any firm or person, such firm or person shall furnish in duplicate a fresh statement
required under section 7 specifying every particular in which a change has been made
together with the nature and date of such change, along with the last issued certificate of
registration or a certified copy thereof.
(2) A statement under subsection (1) shall be furnished within a period of thirty days of such
change and shall be signed-
(a) in the case of an individual by him;
(b) in the case of a corporation by the director or  the secretary thereof; or
(c) in the case of a firm by all the partners or by any one partner in which event such
statement shall be verified by an affidavit sworn to by that partner.
(3) Where any change in the particulars arises from the entry into a firm of a new partner, the
statement under subsection (1) shall be signed by each partner including such new partner.
(4) Where any change arises in the particulars furnished under paragraph (f) or paragraph,
(g) of subsection (1) of section 7 in respect of any partner of a firm, such statement shall be
signed by that partner.
(5) Where any change in the particulars arises by a person ceasing to be a partner of a firm a
statement under subsection (1) shall be signed either-
(a) by each of the continuing partners and the person who ceases to be a partner; or
(b) by each continuing partner, provided the statement be verified by each of the
signatories by an affidavit as prescribed; or
(c) by the person who ceases to be a partner, provided the statement is verified by
him by an affidavit as prescribed.
(6) Any affidavit which certify any statement furnished under this section and which states
that any person other than the declarant is a partner or has ceased to be a partner or which
omits to state, that any person is a partner or has ceased to be a partner shall not be
evidence for or against such other person in respect of his liability or non-liability as a
partner.
(7) The change in particulars contemplated in this section shall also include the simultaneous
cessation of all the partners and the admission of new partners so as to continue the
business without interruption.
(8) Where the Provincial Registrar is of opinion that any particular in any statement furnished
under this section requiring certification by an affidavit needs further investigation before
registration, he may accept the statement subject to investigation and for such purpose
may call for additional proof of any material particulars from any other person and hold
such inquiry as he may deem necessary.
(9) The Provincial Registrar may , after due inquiry and having made the necessary rectification
of such statement where necessary to the particulars in the said statement register such
statement as rectified.
(10) Where the Provincial Registrar refuses to register any statement subsequent to an inquiry
held under subsection (9) the person aggrieved by such refusal may appeal therefrom to
Change in the
statement of
particulars

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
1 0 A
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject assigned for the
Northern Province within a period of thirty days from the date of the communication of
such refusal, and the Secretary shall after due inquiry make his decision as he deems fit.
15. (1) The Provincial Registrar may refuse to register any firm or person carrying on business
under a business name if he is satisfied that the use of the business name is contrary
to any law for thetime being in force or is a business name the use of which is prohibited
under section 12 of this Statute.
(2) The registration of a business name under this Statute shall not be construed as autho
rizing  the  use  of  that name if  apart from  such registration the  use thereof  could be
prohibited.
16. (1) Subject to the provision of subsection (3), the Provincial  Registrar  may terminate  the
registration of any firm or person carrying on business under a  business name on any
ground in which the refusal to register is authorized by subsection (1) of section 15 of
this Statute.
(2) No termination of registration under subsection (1) shall be made unless the Provincial
Registrar has by registered post sent notice to the firm or person carrying on business
under that business name, informing such firm or person that measures acceptable to the
Provincial Registrar to change the business name should  be taken  within  the  period
specified in such notice.
(3) Where the firm or person has failed to take such measures acceptable to the Provincial
Registrar to change the business name within the period specified in the notice under
subsection (2), the Provincial Registrar shall, upon the expiry of that period terminate the
registration of such firm or person and remove the name of such firm or person from the
register.
17.     (1)  If any firm or person registered under this Statute has ceased to carry on business under
a business name, it shall be the duty of the persons who were partners in the firm at the
time it  ceased  to carry on business or  of  the individual or  if  he is dead, his personal
representative or in the case of a corporation every director  or  the  secretary  thereof,
within  three months of such  cessation, to send  by  post or  deliver to  the  Provincial
Registrar a statement in the prescribed form that the firm or person has ceased to carry
on business under that business name.
     (2) If any person whose duty is to give the statement required by subsection (1) fails to do
so within such time as aforesaid, he shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty-five
thousand rupees.
     (3) On receipt of the statement referred to in subsection (1), the Provincial Registrar shall
file such statement and shall make an endorsement in the register removing the registrat
ion of such firm or person.
     (4) Where the Provincial Registrar has reasonable cause to believe that any firm or person
registered under this Statute is not carrying on business, he shall cause-
(a) a notice to be published in the Gazette stating that unless objection is received
by him within one month of such publication, the name of  that firm or person
will be removed from the register; and
Notice of
cessation and
removal of name
from register
Power to refuse
registration
Power to
terminate
registration

<!-- page 11 -->

1 1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
(b) a copy of the aforesaid notice to be forthwith sent by registered post  to the firm
or person specified in the notice and to each of the partners at their residential
address.
(5) If within the period of one month of the said notice, the Provincial Registrar receives no objection
to the aforesaid notice, he may remove the name of such firm or person from the register.
18. Where the Provincial Registrar refuses to register a business name or removes or terminates the
registration of any firm or person under sections 15, 16 or 18 of this Statute a notice of such
refusal, removal or termination shall be sent by registered post to such firm or person.
19. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order made by the Provincial Registrar under any
provision of this Statute may appeal therefrom to the Secretary to the Northern Provincial Ministry
of Minister in-charge of the subject assigned within a period of thirty days from the date of the
communication in writing of such decision.
20. (1) Where any firm or person required by this Statute to furnish a statement or of any change in
particulars in respect of any business makes default in so doing, then the rights of that defaulter
under or arising out of any contract in relation 'to that business made or entered into by or on
behalf of such defaulter at any time while he is in default shall not be enforceable by action or
other legal proceeding either in the business name or otherwise:
Provided that-
(a) the defaulter may apply to the Court for relief against the disability imposed by this
section, and the Court, on being satisfied that the default was accidental, or due to
inadvertence or some other sufficient cause, or that on other grounds it is just and,
equitable to grant relief, may grant such relief either generally, or as respects any
particular contracts, on condition of the costs of the application being paid by the
defaulter, unless the Court otherwise orders, and on such other conditions, if any,
as the Court may Impose ; but such relief shall not be granted except on such service
and such publication of notice of the application as the Court may order, nor shall
relief be given in respect of any contract if any party to the contract proves to the
satisfaction of the Court that if the provisions of this Act had been complied with,
he would not have entered into the contract;
(b) nothing herein contained shall prejudice the rights of any other parties as against
the defaulter in respect of such contract as aforesaid;
(c) if any action or proceeding shall be commenced by any other party against the
defaulter to enforce the rights of such party in respect of such contract, nothing
Herein contained shall preclude the defaulter- from enforcing in that action or pro-
ceeding, by way of counter-claim, set off or otherwise, such rights as he may have
against that party in respect of such contract.
(2) In this section," Court" means the Court in which any action or other legal proceeding to
enforce a contract is commenced by a defaulter.
21. (1) The Provincial Registrar may require any person to furnish, to him within such time as
he may specify  such particulars as  appear necessary to him for the purpose of ascer
taining whether or not such person or the  firm  of  which  he  is  a  partner  should  be
registered under this Statute or an alteration made in the registered particulars, and may
Notice of refusal
or termination
of registration
Appeals
Disbility of
persons in
default
Duty to furnish
particulars to
Provincial
Register

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
1 2 A
also in the case of a corporation require the secretary or any other officer of a corpora
tion performing the duties of secretary to furnish such particulars.
(2) Any person who fails to supply the particulars required under subsection (1) within the
period specified by the Provincial Registrar or within such further period as he may allow
or who  furnishes particulars which are  false shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on
conviction after summary trial, before a Magistrate be  liable to imprisonment of  either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not  exceeding  twenty-five
thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.
(3) In any proceedings  under subsection (2) the  Court may, where it thinks fit, order that
person to furnish or have furnished to the Provincial Registrar such particulars or such
corrected particulars within such time as may be specified in that order.
(4) If, from any information so furnished, it appears to the Provincial Registrar that any firm
or person ought to be registered under this Statute, or an alteration ought to be made in
the registered particulars, he may require the firm or person to furnish him the required
particulars within such time as may be allowed to him, but where any default under this
Statute  has been discovered from the information acquired under  this  section, no pro
ceeding under this Statute shall be taken against any person in respect of such default
prior to the expiration of time within which the firm or person is required by the Provincial
Registrar under this section to furnish particulars to him.
22. (1)  Every firm or person carrying on business under a business name after the commence
ment of this Statute whether or not such firm or person has been registered prior to the
commencement of this Statute, shall furnish the statement required under section 7 of
this Statute in duplicate.
(2) The statement under subsection (1) shall be furnished within a period of six months of
the date of commencement of this Statute or within such further period, as the Provincial
Registrar may on application allow and shall be signed-
(a)  in the case of an individual by him;
(b) in the case of a corporation by the director or the secretary thereof;
(c) in the case of a firm by all the partners.
(3) Where any firm or person registered prior to the date of commencement of this Statute
fails to furnish the statement of particulars under subsection (1) within the period of time
or such further period of time as is specified under subsection (2), the registration of such
firm or person shall be deemed to be in default and the certificate of registration of such
firm or person shall be deemed to be cancelled from the date of such default and the
Provincial Registrar shall record such fact in his register.
(4) Where any firm or person continues to carry on business after cancellation of registration,
such firm or person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction for a fine
not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees and where the offence is continued after
conviction, such firm or person shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees
for every day during which the offence continues after conviction.
23. (1)  Where a firm or person has furnished a statement under sections 7, 10 or 14 of this Statute, and
ails to furnish the Provincial Registrar of such particulars as are required of him in writing or
fails to make any amendments to the original application as required in writing by the Provincial
Registrar for the issue of a certificate of registration the Provincial Registrar may issue a notice
in writing in the prescribed form requiring such firm or person to furnish such particulars as are
Statement
furnished after
commencement
of Statute
notwithstanding
earlier
registration
Power pf
Provincial
Register to
consider
application as
having lapsed

<!-- page 13 -->

1 3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
required or to make any amendments to the application and if such firm or person fails to comply
with such notice within a period of one month thereof or within such extended time as given by
the Provincial Registrar, the Provincial Registrar may consider such an application as having
lapsed and may take no further action regarding the issue of a certificate of registration thereon:
Provided, however, that the Registrar may take further action on such an application which has
lapsed if such firm or person pays a further fee as may be prescribed and furnishes such
particulars as were required by him on the original application or makes the amendments that
were required by the Registrar to the original application.
(2) Where  any firm  or person continues  to use a business  name the registration of  which  has
lapsed under this section, and has not taken steps to comply with the proviso to  subsection
(1), such firm or person shall be guilty of an offence and  shall  be  liable  on  conviction  after
summary trial before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding  twenty-five  thousand  rupees  and
to a continuing fine of one thousand rupees for eveiy day in respect of which the offence has
continued after conviction.
24. (1) In any case in which, any individual, or all the partners of any firm, or all the directors and the
secretary of any corporation required under this Statute to be registered, reside outside Northern Province,
the business of the individual, firm or corporation shall be carried on in Northern Province in the name of
the individual, firm or corporation, by a local manager and such local manager, shall be personally responsible
for the discharge of all obligations attaching to the individual, firm or corporation under this Statute.
(2) Where it has been brought to the notice of the Provincial Registrar that no local manager has been
appointed in terms of subsection (l) for any business, the Provincial Registrar may give notice to s uch
individual or the partners of such firm or all the directors and secretaries of such corporation, to  comply
with the requirements of that subsection.
(3) In case of default in respect of any obligation by the local manager under subsection (1), he shall
be subject to the same responsibilities, liabilities and penalties as the individual in whose name he carried
on the business, or if a partner in the firm or of a director or secretary of the corporation, as the case may
be, and all the penal and other provisions of this Statute shall be construed accordingly.
(4) For the purpose of this section " local manager " includes any person appointed in writing or
acting under a power of attorney or conducting the business and signing cheques or acting as a de facto
manager, for or on behalf of any firm or person resident abroad and having a place of business in Sri Lanka.
PART  IV
Offences
25. Any firm or person continuing to use a business name the registration of which has been refused
or terminated under this Statute shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction aft er
summary proceeding before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees and to a
continuing fine of one thousand rupees for every day in respect of which the offence is continued af ter
conviction.
26. If any statement required to be furnished, under this Statute contains any matter which is false in
any material particular to the knowledge of any person signing it, that person shall on conviction a fter
summary proceeding before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees or
to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or to both a fine and suc h
imprisonment.
Business carried
on by local
manager
Penalty for use
of business name
which has been
refused or
terminated
Penalty for false
statements

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
1 4 A
27. If any firm or person by this Statute required to furnish a statement or of any change in particulars
makes default in so doing in the manner and within the time specified by this Statute, every partner in the
firm or the person so in default shall be liable on conviction after summary proceeding before a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees and to a continuing fine of one thousand rupees for
every day during which the default continues after conviction and the Court before which such partner or
person shall be tried may, where necessary, Order a statement of the required particulars to be furnished to
the Provincial Registrar within such time as may be specified in the Order.
28. (1) Any person who-
(a) knowingly represents a business name as registered when it is not so registered or uses
an incorrect or false number with the business;
(b) produces or tenders or causes to be produced or tendered any statement or affidavit
under this Statute, knowing it to be false,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
(2) A person shall be deemed for the purpose of this section to represent that a business name is
registered, if he uses in connection with the business name the word " registered" or any abbreviati on or
letter or word or words implying that registration has been obtained, or uses in connection wit the business
name an incorrect or false registration number to mislead the public into the belief that such business name
has been duly registered under this Statute.
29. Where an offence under this Statute has been committed by a body corporate, every person who
at the time of commission of the offence was a director, general manager, secretary or other similar officer
of that body or was obliged to Statute in any such capacity shall be deemed to guilty of such offenc e,
unless he proves that the offence
was committed without his consent or conveniance and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of the offence having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and of all t he
circumstances.
30. (1) Where any firm or person-
(a) has made default in complying with any provision of this Statute requiring such firm or
person to file with or deliver or send to the Provincial Registrar any statement of particulars
or of any change in particulars or such particulars as are required, by the Provincial
Registrar under this Statute; and
(b) has by reason of such default committed an offence against this Statute,
the Provincial Registrar may if he thinks fit, instead of instituting proceedings in Court or where such
proceedings have already been instituted, instead of continuing such proceedings against such firm o r
person in respect of such offence, accept from, such firm or person such sum of money as the Provincial
Registrar may think proper in composition of the offence.
(2) Any sum so accepted under subsection (1) shall be credited to the Northern Provincial Fund and
the record of every such sum of money accepted in composition of that offence shall be entered in a
register kept and maintained by the Provincial Registrar.
(3) Where the Provincial Registrar has accepted any sum of money under the provisions of subsection
(1) in composition of any offence, proceedings shall not be taken against such firm or person in respect of
that offence, or if already taken, shall not be continued.
Penalty for
default in
registration
Penalty for false
statements or
falsely
representing
business names as
registered
Offences by
Corporations
Compounding of
certain offences

<!-- page 15 -->

1 5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
(4) Where any sum of money payable in composition of an offence under the provisions of subsec-
tion (l) remains unpaid for a period of one month from the date fixed for its payment by the Provinc ial
Registrar or such extended time as the Provincial Registrar may allow, the Provincial Registrar may report
the said default in such payment to a Magistrate and the amount thereof shall be recovered from such firm
or person in respect of such default in the same manner as if it were a fine imposed by Court, and such Court
shall direct that the amount in default be credited to the Northern Provincial Fund.
PART V
General Provisions
31. (1) Where for the purpose of ascertaining any information required by him in order to fulfill the
duties under this Statute, the Provincial Registrar may, if he is of opinion that such information is not likely
to be furnished to him or apprehends suppression of such information, authorize in writing an office r
appointed for the purpose to make search and obtain such information as he may require, and such
authorization shall be recorded in the register kept and maintained for such purpose.
(2) Any officer so specially authorized by the Provincial Registrar under subsection (1) for the purpose
of ascertaining any information under this Statute may, if necessary, be accompanied by a peace officer and
may do all or any of the following acts-
(a) enter and search any building or place where he has reason to believe any books, registers or
other documents belonging to any person or firm may be found, and to examine or cause to be
examined any such books, registers or documents;
(b) make a note or an inventory or take an extract from any book, register or other document that
may be found in the course of any search of any building or place;
(c) question any person whom he finds in that building or place with regard to any matter
relevant to or under this Statute and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
15 of 1979, relating to searches shall apply so far as may be to searches under this section;
(d) remove any such books, registers or other documents that may be found in that course of
any search of any building or place and issue a receipt therefor to the person from whose
custody the same was removed and without delay enter the particulars of such books, registers,
or other documents in the register referred to in subsection (1).
(3)Any firm or person, corporation, agent, director, officer or employee of such firm or person who
fails to furnish any information or to produce any book, record or other document when required so to do
by the Provincial Registrar or any officer specially authorized in writing by the Provincial Registr ar, or
obstructs or fails to permit to make any examination under the preceding provisions shall be guilty of an
offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, or that he exercised all
due diligence to avoid the commission of such offence.
(4)Where the person convicted of such offence under this Statute is a body corporate, every person
who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director or an officer of the body corporate shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall, on conviction after summary proceeding before a Magistrate,
be liable to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding twelve months or to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.
Power of search

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
1 6 A
32.(1) Any person may inspect the documents filed by the Provincial Registrar on payment of such
fees as may be prescribed.
(2)Any person may require a certificate of registration of any firm or person, or a copy of or extract
from any statement made in any prescribed form to be certified by the Provincial Registrar, and there shall
be paid for such certificate, certified copy or extract, such fees as may be prescribed.
(3)A certificate of registration, or a copy of or extract from any statement furnished or registered
under this Statute, if duly certified to be a true copy under the hand of the Provincial Registrar ( whom it
shall not be necessary to prove to be the Provincial Registrar), shall in all legal proceedings, civ il or
criminal, be received in evidence.
33. (1) Where the Provincial Registrar is satisfied that any volume of any register kept under this
Statute or any file or document has been so damaged as to render that volume, file or document incapable
of being mended, he may cause a copy thereof to be made and authenticated in such manner as he may
direct.
(2)Any copy made and authenticated under subsection (1) shall replace the volume or folio or
documents of which it is a copy and shall for all purposes be deemed to have the same legal force and effect
as the volume or file or document which such copy replaces.
(3) The Provincial Registrar shall cause every damaged volume, file or document of which a copy
has been made under subsection (1) to be preserved as long as it is reasonably practicable for any
reference which may be necessary.
(4) Where the Provincial Registrar after due investigations is satisfied that any folio of any volume of
any register or file has been lost and cannot be recovered or that such folio has been permanently mutilated
or so obliterated or damaged as to render the entries or any material part of the entries therein illegible he
may cause a reconstructed folio to be prepared.
(5) No folio shall be reconstructed as provided under subsection (4) except in accordance with
regulations providing-
(a) for evidence to be admitted and used by the Provincial Registrar in ascertaining the
particulars originally contained in the lost or mutilated or damaged folio;
(b) for the giving of notice by the Provincial Registrar of the preparation of the recon
structed folio;
(c) for the lodging of objections by any person affected by any of the particulars contained
in the reconstructed folio; and
(d) for the inquiry into any such objections by the Provincial Registrar.
(6) Where any folio has been reconstructed by the Provincial Registrar in accordance with the
preceding provisions of this section, the Provincial Registrar shall authenticate the reconstructed folio in
the prescribed manner and shall thereafter cause the reconstructed folio to be inserted in the appro priate
volume of the register in the place formerly occupied by the lost folio or in place of the mutilated  or
damaged folio, or in. a copy of a volume, prepared under the provisions of this section as the case may be
and the reconstructed, folio when so authenticated and inserted, shall for all purposes be deemed to have
the same legal force and effect as the folio which the reconstructed folio replaces.
Inspection of
registered
statements and
issue of certified
copies.
Power to make
copies of damaged
volumes of any
register, file or
documents and to
prepare and insert
reconstituted folios

<!-- page 17 -->

1 7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
(7) The Provincial Registrar may, after such inquiry as he may deem necessary, correct any clerical
error or omission which may be discovered in any entry in any register or in any certificate, file or document
kept or issued under the provisions of this Statute and for that purpose may recall any such certificate and
amend the same or issue a fresh certificate in its place.
34. Any notice, written communication, certificate or other document required to be given or served
under the provisions of this Statute, shall be deemed to have been duly given or served if posted by  the
Provincial Registrar to the registered principal place of business of the person to whom, it is addressed.
35. Printed, mechanically, electronically or otherwise produced, typed or written copies or extracts,
duly certified by the Provincial Registrar (whom it shall not be necessary to prove to be the Provin cial
Registrar) or from any documents, registers or other books filed or kept under this Statute in the office of
the Provincial Registrar of Business Names shall be admitted in evidence in all Courts within the Northern
Province and in all proceedings without further proof or production of the originals.
36. (1) The Provincial Registrar may, subject to such conditions as he may think delegate to an officer,
such of his powers, functions and duties and such officer may exercise, discharge and perform such
powers, functions and duties as are assigned to him.
(2) The Provincial Registrar may, whenever he deems appropriate to do so exercise, discharge and
perform all or any of the powers, functions and duties delegated to an officer.
37. The Minister may give such directions to the Provincial Director, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Statute, as to the performance of his functions, the discharge of his duties and the
exercise of his powers under this Statute or any other written law as the Minister may consider necessary,
and the Provincial Director shall give effect to all such directions.
38. (1) the Minister may make regulations concerning any of the following matters-
(a) the fees to be paid to the Provincial Registrar under this Statute;
(b) the forms to be used under this Statute;
(c) the powers and duties of the Provincial Registrar under this Statute;
(d) the performance of Statutes by this Statute required to be done by the Provincial
Registrar;
(e) all matters connected with or arising from the restrictions as to the business name
which may be used;
(f) the reconstruction of folios; and
(g) all matters that may be prescribed and generally the conduct and regulation of registra-
tion under this Statute and any matters incidental thereto.
(2) All regulations made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall be placed
before the Northern Provincial Council within three months of such Gazetting and be
approved by such Northern Provincial Council.
(3) Every regulation which is not approved by the Northern Provincial Council shall be deemed
to be rescinded from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
Service of
notice
Certified copies,
to be evidence
Delegation of
powers,
functions and
duties
Directions
Regulations

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
1 8 A
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall be deemed to be rescinded, shall be
published in the Gazette.
39. Where any discretionary power is given to the Provincial Registrar by the Statute or regulations
made thereunder he shall not exercise that power adversely to the party affected thereby without giv ing
such party an opportunity of being heard.
40. The Provincial Registrar may after such inquiry as he may deem necessary, correct any clerical
error which may from time to time be discovered in any registration certificate, registration entry in the
register kept or maintained by him under this Statute.
41. The Provincial Registrar or any person acting in any such post for the time being shall as long as
he holds office be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal Code.
42. All registers required to be kept and maintained under the provisions of this Statute shall be kept
and maintained under the supervision of the Provincial Registrar at the respective register offices in each
administrative district.
43. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires-
" business " includes any trade or profession;
"business name" means the name or style under which any business is carried on, whether in
partnership or otherwise;
"corporation" means anybody corporate established by or under any written law and includes
a company as defined in the law relating to Companies;
"Director" and " Secretary" include any person occupying the position of director or secretary
by whatever name called;
"firm" means an un-incorporate body of two or more individuals, or one or more individuals and
one or more corporations, or two or more corporations who have entered into partnership with
one another with a view to carrying on business for profits;
"full name" includes any case in which a surname or other final name appears in full and in which
the preceding names either appear in full or are represented by initials;
"individual" means a natural person and does not include a corporation;
"person" includes a corporation;
"Minister "means the Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Trade and Commerce.
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations in pursuance of this Statute;
44. (1) all certificates of registration issued under the provisions on Business Names Act, No. 7 of
1987 shall continue to be valid and effectual until fresh certificates of registration are issued un der the
provisions of this Statute.
(2) Every statement in writing containing particulars required to be furnished under the provisions on
Business Names Act, No. 7 of 1987 or any change of particulars made to the Registrar under the provisions
on Business Names Act, No. 7 of 1987 prior to the date of commencement of this Statute shall be valid and
effectual and the provisions of this Statute relating to furnishing of particulars, change of partic ulars,
payment of prescribed fees, registration and issue of certificates shall accordingly apply to every such
statement.
Exercise of
discretionary
power by
Provincial
Registrar
Correction of
clerical errors
Provincial
Registars to be
public servants
Maintenance of
registers & C
Savings

<!-- page 19 -->

1 9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'02'20
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRA TIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.02.20 19
(3) Any register, index or document kept under the provisions of the Business Names Act, No. 7 of
1987 shall be deemed to be and to be part of the register, index or documents kept under this Statute.
(4) All proceedings pending in any court under the repealed Ordinance on a date; prior to the
appointed date shall be heard and construed under the provisions of the Business Names Act, No. 7 of
1987.
45. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Statute, until the establishment of Department and
appointment of Provincial Registrar under sections 2 and 3 of this Statute. Department of Provincial
Revenue and Provincial Revenue Commissioner shall exercise and discharge the powers and functions of
the Department and Provincial Registrar respectively.
46. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala texts of this Statute, the Tamil
text shall prevail.
03 - 339
Transitional
provisions
Tamil text to
prevail in the
case of
inconsistency
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.