

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2626
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2622
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"045 – 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'11'10
No. 2,045 –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER  10, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th November, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th November, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2619-b 812124- 5,403 (11/2017)
Note.–    (i) commercial mediation centre of Sri Lanka (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November  02, 2017.
 (ii) trusts (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of November  02, 2017.
N. B.–   Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,044 of 02.11.2017 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2620
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service  : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2621
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2622
Posts – v acant
SRI  LANkA   POLICE   
Post of Police Constable (Special Task force)  
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
direct recruitment for the Post of Recruit Police constable - 
Special t ask force in the Sri Lanka Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance 
with the specimen form given below should be sent to                            
Director/Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st Floor, 
Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi mawatha, colombo 06. the 
application should be sent by the Registered Post to the 
above address to reach on or before 10.01.2018 and the post 
applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application. delayed applications 
will not be entertained and no applications will be issued by 
the Sri Lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 3,54,480 - 7 x 3,600 - 27 x 4,440 - 
Rs. 499,560.00
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public administration circular 3-2016 Schedule ii 
and the above mentioned Salary Scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above 
Salary Scale, they will be paid following allowances :  
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) 40% of the monthly salary 5,712.00
 (c) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (d) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
 (e) 1/4 of monthly salary 3,570.00
 (f) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 10,500.00
  (Rs. 350x30 areas where special 
incentives allowance are paid)
 (h) combined allowance  8,400.00
  (Rs. 350x24 areas where special 
incentives allowance are not paid)
in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  free t ransport facilities.
 (b)  Free Medical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.).
 (c)  all uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d)  facilities to improve skills and talents in sports.
 (e)  t ravelling expenses are provided to undertake 
duties and money will be granted as rewards for 
outstanding and arduous duties. 
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the  basic training.
4. Basic Qualifications Required : 
 (a) Age Limit.– the age should be between 18 and 
25 years as at closing date of the applications 
as per the Gazette Notification. However Police 
officers currently serving in the Sri Lanka Police 
as Police constable drivers are eligible to 
apply up to the age of 27 at the closing date of 
applications. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications : 
  Should have passed 06 subjects including 
mathematics and medium Language in not 
more than two attempts at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. Applicants who are qualified 
within two attempts should have passed at least 
05 subjects (including both mathematics and 
Medium Language or at least one, at the first 
attempt). 
Note 01.– The subjects passed at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination is determined as per the 
subject classification of Department 
of Examination i.e.- Science subject 
combination of subject number 41 and 
44 is considered as one subject and 
maths subject combination of subject 
number 42 and 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.– If the written test of Technical subject at 
the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination is failed, 
it is considered as the Technical subject 
is failed even though the practical test of 
the same subject is passed. 
Note 03.–  Since optional Tamil, English and 
Sinhala subjects are not included in 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2623
the stream of G. C. E. (O/L) Syllabus, 
passes in any of these subjects will not 
be accounted as a passed subjects at the            
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * chest 30 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of Inspector General of 
Police provided that they have outstanding 
skills in sports and have achieved excellent 
performance in sports at national level 
or have earned reputation for Sri Lanka 
by participating in an international 
competition. 
 (d) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less than 
6/12 in each eye. if the vision is 6/6 in one eye and 
6/18 in the other eye, will be also accepted. colour 
vision should be normal. applicants wearing 
spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible for 
being selected for the service. 
 (e) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considered as 
unsuitable). only this condition will not apply 
for the Police Officers presently serving in the 
Sri Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
5. Method of Recruitment.– Selected applicants will have 
to pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Sri 
Lanka Police. only those who have passed this test can 
participate in the physical fitness test and should pass that 
test. 
* Physical Fitness Test :
exercise Times Time
(minutes)
1. 1,000 meters 04
2. chip ups 05 01
3. Push ups 15 01
4. Situps 15 01
5. Scott thrush 12 01
* Only those who are successful in the physical fitness 
test will be summoned for the final interview, and 
those who score 40% or more in the final interview 
will be summoned for the written test. 
the written test consists of two question papers :
* an essay paper not less than 500 words - 45 minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper - 1 hour
6. Medical examination .– applicant must pass the 
medical test before obtaining his appointment. medical test 
is an only one part of the recruitment process. Selection will 
be made among the applicants who pass the medical test 
as per the number of existing vacancies and the position in 
the list pertaining to the merits and skill. those who fail the 
medical test will be rejected. 
7. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be recruited 
;
 (b) Providing false information or conceal 
information will make the applicant ineligible. 
if the false information is elicited after the 
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed 
from the service. 
8. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular                         
No. 07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the 
Ministry of Public Administration and Home 
Affairs, all officers recruited to the Public/
Provincial Public Service with effect from 
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other 
official language within a period of 05 years in 
addition to the official language through which 
they enter the service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specific proficiency in the second 
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2624
9. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. y ou are liable to contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service  : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to a three years recruit  
period ;
 (b) the selected applicants will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy;
 (c) they will be subjected to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishment code V olume i and 
ii, financial Regulations, Police orders, and any 
other orders that may be issued by the inspector 
General of Police or by the Government from time 
to time;
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed Examinations 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Police. those who fail 
to pass the prescribed examinations or found to be 
unfit for Police duties will be liable to be removed 
from the Police Service ;
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to the 
confirmation in the said rank without the permission 
of the Inspector General of Police. However in 
terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and i. 
G's circular No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and 
circular (amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible 
to marry under special circumstances and with the 
permission of inspector General of Police ;
 (f) applicants appointed after the training should 
serve as recruit period of 03 years in the Sri Lanka 
Police and if they wish to resign from the service 
before their probation is over, they should sign a 
consent agreement to the effect that they are willing 
to pay any amount which was incurred on the 
training and uniforms etc., together with any other 
prescribed payments at the time of tendering their 
resignations. director of Poilce training college 
will decide it having calculated dues from the 
applicants. the acceptance of resignation should 
conform to the Section 4, chapter V of V olume i of 
the Establishments code, 1985 ;
 (g) Recruit Police constables should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police code of conduct immediate after 
commencing their training in terms of the i. G. 
P.’s circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
 (h) Recruit Police constables should subscribe the 
oath of allegiance for a prestigious public service, 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the i.G.P.'s circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
 (i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed 
in the post will have opportunities for promotions 
in terms of the approved schemes of promotions of 
the Sri Lanka Police.  
11. (a) attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(iia) of the Part i of this Gazette ;
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. applications should accompany copies of the 
following documents (originals must not be forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) t wo recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of sports with outstanding 
records or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) A photostat copy of the certificates of service 
experience (if available) ;
 (vi) a  photostat copy of the identity card.
13. (a) applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the Heads 
of their respective departments and they must be 
accompanied with a certificate stating that the 
officer can be released if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their 
own hand writing on a paper of 11" x 8" in size and 
post them together with the copies of certificates, 
to the address given in paragraph two and under no 
circumstances should applications be handed over 
personally to any officer.
14. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2625
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview. 
 Pujith jayasundara,
 inspector General of Police. 
18th october, 2017.
SRi LaNka PoLicE 
Post of recruit Police constable (sPecial task force) 
sPecimen aPPlication form
 For office use
 Size 1 1/2 "x2"
  
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth belongs 
:––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
  (e)  Grama Niladari's division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (f) mailing address :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   mobile No. :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b) Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by birth or  
  registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration attach a copy of that certificate)
  (c)  if you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––.
  (iv)  a pplicant's paternal great grandfather :–––––.
07. date of birth :––––––––––. 
 (Copy of the Birth Certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette 
Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. civil status :––––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications :––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees to 
inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Sri Lanka Police Service before ? 
mentioned Rank and Regimental Number :––––––––.
 (if so, what are the reasons for leaving the service ? give 
details) 
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :–––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in an armed service ? (if so attach 
a copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
17. (a) are you serving in a V olunteer armed Service ? 
(if so, your application must be forwarded through 
the respective Service c ommander) :––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2626
 (b) Have you served in a V olunteer Armed service ? 
:––––––––.
  (If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate)
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished (if so give details) :–––––.
i, hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, 
i am aware that i am liable for immediate terminatio n of 
my service in the Sri Lanka Police at any time even though            
i have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of  Department (If applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant mr./miss ..................... 
is serving in ........................... the department corporation/
board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department 
 with the designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
11–400
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
Open Competitive Examination 
TO RECRuIT GRADuATES INTO THE 3 – 1 (a) of 
SRI LANkA TEACHER SERVICE FOR THE 
V acaNciES iN VocatioNaL  SUbJEctS 
IN SINHALA AND TAMIL MEDIA uNDER 
THE THIRTEEN yEARS OF GuARANTEED 
EdUcatioN PRoGRam– 2017 
01. aPPLicatioNS are called from qualified Sri Lankan 
citizens, both male and female, to be absorbed into the                  
3 – 1 (a) of the Sri Lanka teacher Service for the vacancies 
in National and Provincial schools throughout the country. 
applications prepared as per the specimen given at the 
end of this Gazette notification should be submitted under 
registered cover to reach, “the commissioner General 
of Examinations, organizing and foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations, Post box 1503, 
colombo” on or before 11/12/2017. the name of the 
examination should be written in Sinhala applications in 
both Sinhala and English, and in tamil applications in both 
tamil and English. it is compulsory to mention “Open 
Competitive Examination for recruitments to the 3 – 1 (a) of 
Sri Lanka Teacher Service for vocational subjects – 2017” 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
Note-No complaints shall be entertained to the effect that 
an application or documents connected therewith were 
lost or delayed in the post. any loss that may result by 
delaying posting the application to the closing date of 
applications will have to be borne by the applicant. 
2. method of Recruitment: 
 2.1  the applicants who sit for all papers conducted 
by the commissioner general of examinations and 
score 40% minimum for each paper will be directed 
to a general interview and practical examination 
giving priority to the applicants obtaining highest 
aggregate marks and school based recruitment shall 
be made as per the number of vacancies available. 
Applicants do not satisfy the qualifications as per 
this Gazette  notification shall be rejected at the 
interview. 
 2.2  an applicant can apply for maximum three (03) 
subjects as relevant to his / her first degree. 
 2.3  Vacant schools shall be displayed to the candidates 
at the time of the interview. 
 2.4.  Recruitments for said vacancies shall be made on 
school basis and no transfers shall be allowed for at 
least a period of five (05) years. 
03. Conditions of Employment: 
 3.1  this post is permanent. the pension scheme for 
this post shall be determined by the pension policy 
made by the government in due course. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2627
 3.2  the teachers recruited under this Gazette notification shall be subjected to a probationary period of three (03) years 
and the first efficiency bar should be passed during said three years. 
 3.3  in accordance with the provisions of public administrative circular 01/2014 and circulars thereof, the level of 
proficiency in respect of the other language should be obtained. 
 3.4  the procedural rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued from time to time in governing the public 
service, the establishment code and the financial regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and 
other departmental procedures are applicable to this post 
 3.5  the directives and the conditions given in the Service minute of the Sri Lanka teacher Service published on 
the Gazette  extraordinary numbered 1885/38 and dated 23.10.2014, amendments made to the said service minute 
thereafter and amendments that will be made in future and general procedures applicable to the public service shall 
be applicable to this post. 
04. Salary Scale: 
 4.1  this post is entitled to the salary scale of Rs. 27,740 -300 x6 -380x7 -445x2 – Rs. 33,090 (monthly) in G-E-01-2016 
in terms of the Public administrative Salary circular No. 3/2016. y ou will be placed in Rs.32, 000/=, which is the 
14th step of the said salary scale. Wage shall be paid as per conditions given in the appendix 11 of the aforesaid 
circular. moreover, you are also entitled for the other allowances paid for the public servants from time to time. 
05. Education Qualifications :
 5.1  as per the directives of Sri Lanka teacher Service minutes, applicant should possess a degree from a university or 
any other degree awarding institute recognized by the Sri Lanka University Grants commission before 11.12.2017 
and the subject applying for should be the major component of the degree. 
Note: qualifications given below against each of the subject shall be considered the minimum qualifications to be qualified 
for the said subject. 
Serial 
No. 
Subject Qualifications 
01 child Psychology and care a degree with major in child Psychology or child Psychology and care 
02 Health and Social Care a b.Sc. degree in health promotion or a degree with major in health and 
social care 
03 Physical Education and Sports a  b.Sc. degree in sports science and management or b.Sc. special in physical 
education or a degree with major in physical education & sports. 
04 Performing arts Special degree in performing arts or b.a special in performing arts or special 
degree in drama & theatrical arts of a degree with major in performing 
arts. 
05 Event management a degree in hospitality, tourism and event management or a degree with 
major in event management. 
06 arts and crafts Special degree in visual arts(arts), or visual arts and planning (arts and 
Graphics) or degree in visual and technical arts or degree in fine arts or 
a degree with major in arts & crafts. 
07 interior designing a degree in interior designing or a degree with major in interior design. 
08 fashion designing a degree in fashion designing or special degree in visual arts (fabric and 
garments) or degree in fashion designing and production or a degree 
with major in fashion designing. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2628
Serial 
No. 
Subject Qualifications 
09 Graphic designing a  degree in designing, or b.a. in visual arts and planning (arts and graphics) 
or b.Sc. engineering in computer Science, b.Sc. special in computer 
science or degree in information communication technology or a 
degree with major in information communication technology or b.Sc. 
in computer science or a degree with major in graphics designing. 
10 art and designing degree in designing or special degree in visual arts (arts) or degree in arts 
and design or degree in visual and technical arts or degree with major 
in art and design 
11 Landscaping b.Sc. Special in agriculture (with specialty in horticulture or first degree in 
horticulture and Landscaping (b.Sc.) or a degree with landscaping as a 
major. 
12 Applied Horticultural Studies b.Sc. special in agriculture (with specialty in horticulture or first degree 
in horticulture‚ flower cultivation and Landscaping or a degree with 
landscaping as a major
13 Livestock Product Studies b.Sc. special in agriculture (with specialty in animal science) or first degree 
in animal husbandry and fisheries or B.Sc. in animal science or a degree 
with major in animal product processing technology. 
14 food Processing Studies b.Sc. special in agriculture (with specialty in food science) or first degree in 
food science and technology or first degree with major in food science 
and nutrition or the degree in food processing technology 
15 aquatic Resource Studies b.Sc. special in agriculture (with specialty in aquatic science) or b.Sc. special 
in aquatic resource management and animal science or b.Sc. in animal 
science and fisheries or first degree with aquatic resource management 
as a subject or a degree with major in aquatic resources technology 
16 Plantation Product Studies b.Sc. special in agriculture or first degree in export agriculture or a degree 
with major in crop production technologies 
17 construction Studies b.Sc. in civil engineering or b.t ec. in engineering in construction and 
building services technologies or degree in engineering technology 
(b.E.t) or a degree with major in construction technology 
18 automobile Studies b.E.t  in engineering technology (motor mechanics) or b.Sc. engineering in 
motor mechanics or a degree with major in motor mechanics 
19 Electrical and Electronic Studies b.Sc. in electrical engineering or b.E.t . in engineering technology or b.Sc. 
engineering (special) in applied electronics or a degree with major in 
electrical and electronics technology 
20 t extile and apparel Studies b.des. (fd&Pd) or first degree in engineering in textile and clothing 
technology or b.t ec. degree or a degree with major in textile and 
clothing technology 
21 metal fabrication Studies b.t ech.in mechanics (general) or a degree with major in mechanical 
technology (general) or a degree with major in metal fabrication 
technology 
22 aluminum fabrication Studies b.t ech.in mechanics (general) or a degree with major in b.t ec. in technology 
(construction) or a degree with major in aluminum fabrication 
technology 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2629
Serial 
No.
Subject Qualifications 
23 Software development b.Sc. engineering in computer technology or b.Sc.(special) in computer 
science or b.Sc. (special) in information communication technology or 
degree in information communication technology or b.Sc. in software 
engineering or a degree with major in information communication 
technology or a b.Sc. degree with computer science or a degree with 
major in software development 
24 Web designing b.Sc. engineering in computer technology or b.Sc.(special) in computer 
science or b.Sc. (special) in information communication technology or 
degree in information communication technology or b.Sc. in software 
engineering or a degree with major in information communication 
technology or a b.Sc. degree with computer science or a degree with 
major in web development 
25 Tourism and Hospitality a  degree in hospitality and leisure management or b.Sc. (special) in tourism 
management or b.Sc. (special) in hospitality management or a degree 
in hospitality and tourism industry management or a special degree 
in tourism management or a degree in tourism and cultural resources 
management or a degree with major in tourism and hospitality 
26 Environmental Studies b.Sc. (special) in environment management and forestry or b.Sc. (special) 
in environmental management or first degree in environmental 
conservation and management or a degree with major in environmental 
studies 
 5.2  as per the directions of service minutes of the Sri Lanka t eacher Service, all applicants should have passed 
Sinhala or t amil language as a subject at G.c.E. (o/L) examination. 
06. Age Limit.– all applicants must be 18 years of age on the closing date of applications and must not exceed 35 
years of age on the same date. 
07. Other requirements :
 1.  all applicants must be the citizens of Sri Lanka 
 2.  applicants must possess an excellent character 
 3.  All qualifications given in this Gazette notification should have been obtained before the closing date of 
applications. 
 4.  All applicants should have physical and mental fitness to perform the duties of the post and to serve in any 
part of the country. 
08. method of Application  :
 8.1  applications prepared using the either side of an a4 size sheet must be in compatible with the specimen 
application given in this notice and should be completed by the applicant himself/herself. Section 1.0 to 7.3 
of the application should be in the first page and from 8.0 the rest should be on the other pages. Incomplete 
applications and the applications do not in compatible with the specimen application given in this notice 
shall be rejected without any notice. (it will be useful to keep a copy of the completed application with the 
applicant) applicant must be aware if his / her application is in compatible with the one given with this 
notice. 
 8.2  one applicant can submit only one application.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2630
 8.3  application and the admission card to the examination must be attested by a Principal of a government 
school /a justice of peace / an attorney at law / a notary public / a commissioned officer in armed force / an 
officer in a Gazetted position in police service or an officer belongs to permanent service in government 
whose an annual salary is above Rs. 240,360. 
 
 8.4  Assuming that all applicants submitted their applications possess requested qualifications as per this notice, 
admissions for the recruitment examination shall be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to those applicants who have paid examination fees and duly perfected and submitted their applications on 
or before the closing date. as soon as the admissions to the examinations are issued, a paper notice shall 
be published by the department of Examinations to make the applicants aware of it. if any of the applicant 
does not receive after two (02) three (03) days of the paper notice he / she needs to contact the organizing 
and foreign examination branch of the department of examinations. When making such inquiries, the 
applicant needs to submit his full name, national identity card number and name of the examination 
correctly. in case of the applicant resides out of colombo, it will be more effective to submit a letter of 
request with said details to the fax number in the paper notice stating a fax number to receive a copy of 
his / her admission. When making such inquires, it will be useful to have the copy of the application, the 
receipt of the payments made and receipt of the registered post ready with the applicant. 
09. Appearing the Examination :
 9.1  all applicants who have duly submitted their applications shall receive admissions to the recruitment 
examination. the applicant need to produce his / her duly attested admission for sitting the examination. 
any applicant who does not meet said requirement shall not be allowed to sit for the examination. 
 9.2  an applicant should sit for the examination in the center given to him /her. Each applicant should 
submit his / her duly attested admission card relevant to the examination hall to the supervisor of the 
examination hall on the first day of examination. All applicants are subjected to the rules and regulations 
of commissioner General of Examinations to conduct the examination. if any applicant shall breach said 
rules and / or regulations he / she will be subjected to a punishment decided by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. 
Note: - Issuance of an admission card to an applicant shall not be considered as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit 
for examination or hold a position. moreover, getting through the examination shall also not be considered 
as a qualification to receive an appointment. 
10. The identity of the applicants.– all applicants must prove their identity so that the supervisor of the examination 
hall could be satisfied thereof. One of the following documents should be produced by applicants to prove their identity in 
the examination hall. 
 (i)  National identity card issued by the Registrar General of Persons 
 (ii)  Valid Passport 
11. Penalty for providing incorrect information.– When perfecting the application, every care should be taken 
to provide correct information. In the event of disclosing that any applicant does not possess qualifications to sit for the 
recruitment examination as per this notice, before, during or after the examination his candidature shall be made null and 
void. 
12. method and medium of Examination :
 12.1  this examination shall be held in colombo in Sinhala and tamil mediums. 
 12.2  in order to pass the written examination, an applicant need to pass both papers obtaining minimum marks 
of 40 for each paper. 
 12.3  Each applicant could sit for the examination in one medium and that should be the medium he / she would 
receive the appointment. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2631
 12.4  applicants shall not be allowed to change their medium of examination mentioned in their applications at 
a later stage. 
13. The syllabus for the examination.– there will be two papers given in 13.1 and 13.2 below for this examination. 
all applicants must sit for both papers. 
 13.1 Aptitude – Time one hour (marks 100)  
  this paper will be prepared to measure the applicants’ skills for teaching and his / her general intelligence. 
the paper shall be comprised of 50 multiple choice and short answer type questions. all questions must be 
answered. 
 13.2  General knowledge.– Time one hour (marks 100)  
  this paper shall be comprised of 50 multiple choice and short answer type questions on general knowledge 
in the field of teaching and / or the educational trends and education modernization taking place in the 
country. all questions must be answered. 
 13.3  General Interview: 
  No marks shall be awarded for the general interview. 
Note: Aims of the general interview: General interview will be held to ascertain if the applicant has qualifications 
as per this notice and if the applicant possesses physical fitness to hold the position. 
 13.4  Practical Test: 
  Applicant needs to make a presentation on a choice of topic made by him / her. Duration not less than five 
(05) minutes shall be given for this purpose. marks shall be given as follows. 
Se. No. Criteria for giving marks at the 
practical test 
Maximum Marks Minimum marks required 
to pass 
01 aim and approach 05 02 
02 Personality and V oice 05 02 
03 clarity in communication 05 02 
04 time management 05 02 
05 Use of presentation methods 05 02 
total 25 10
Note: aims of the practical test is to measure the applicants’ skills on teaching learning process. 
14. Examination fees :
 14.1  Examination fee would be Rs.600/= Payments to be made in the name of commissioner General of 
Examinations under Revenue Head No. 2003-0203 and the receipt of the same to be affixed in the 
relevant cage in the application and write the number of the receipt. (keeping a copy of the receipt shall 
be useful). it is informed that no other fees shall be imposed except the examination fee. No money orders 
or stamps shall be accepted for examination fees. for any reason, examination fees shall not be refunded 
or exchanged for any other examination. 
15. Examination Results :
 15.1  the priority list prepared as per the results of written examination shall be provided by the commissioner 
General of Examinations to the Secretary of the ministry of Education. Results shall be either individually 
posted to the applicants or published in the website of the department of Examinations (www.results.
exam.gov.lk). 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2632
16. Guidelines to complete application s.– Use the following schedules in completing applications 
schedule 01
Language Medium Code No.
Sinhala 02 
t amil 03 
schedule 02 
Subject Code Subject Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium 
1 child Psychology and care P P 
2 Health and Social Care P P 
3 Physical Education and Sports P P 
4 Performing arts P P 
5 Event management P P
6 arts and crafts P P 
7 interior designing P P 
8 fashion designing P P 
9 Graphic designing P P 
10 art & designing P P 
11 Landscaping P P 
12 Applied Horticultural Studies P P 
13 Livestock Product Studies P P 
14 food Processing Studies P P 
15 aquatic Resource Studies P P 
16 Plantation Product Studies P P 
17 construction Studies P P 
18 automobile Studies P P 
19 Electrical and Electronic Studies P P 
20 t extile and apparel Studies P P 
21 metal fabrication Studies P P 
22 aluminium fabrication Studies P P 
23 Software development P P 
24 Web designing P P 
25 Tourism and Hospitality P P 
26 Environmental Studies P P 
17. Officers in public service should submit their applications as per section 12. certified by his / her head of the 
department. 
18. applicants do not appear for the interview on due date shall not be reconsidered. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2633
19. All certificates must be produced on the date of interview and certificates produced later shall not be considered. 
20. The final decision on any matter that would not be covered by this notice, completing or not completing all 
vacancies or a part of it will be the right of the Secretary of the ministry of education. 
21. in case of any inconsistency exists among the language phrases of this notice that will be published in Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages, the Sinhala notice shall be considered as the correct one. 
  s unil  h ettiarachchi ,
  Secretary, 
  ministry of Education.
isurupaya, Pelawatta,
battaramulla.
10th November 2017. 
sPecimen  aPPlication  
MINISTRy OF eDuCATION 
     
  For office use 
open competitive Examination to recruit graduates into the 3 – 1 (a) of Sri Lanka teacher Service for the vacancies in 
vocational subjects in Sinhala and tamil media under the thirteen years of guaranteed education program – 2017. 
 1.  for the subject applied for refer to the appendix 1 and write relevant code in the cage below. 
  medium of Language 
 2.  for subjects applied name the code for 03 subjects as per appendix 2 
 Subject Subject Code
1.
2.
3.
 3.  Name of the applicant :
    3.1.  full name ( In english using block capitals) :––––––––––––.
     ex: AMARAkOON MuDIyANSELAGE  NAMAL  HERATH 
    3.2.  Name with initials with last name first and initials last (Ex. HERATH A.M.N) :––––––––––––.
    3.3.  full name in Sinhala / tamil :––––––––––––.
 4.  Present Postal address :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals – the admission to the recruitment examination shall be posted to this address) 
 5.  National identity card Number : 
 6.  Gender:. 
  male -   01 
  female -  02 
  (Write the relevant number inside the cage)  
 7.  civil Status: 
    7.1.  Unmarried  - 1 
     married  - 2
     (Write the relevant number inside the cage.) 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2634
    7.2.  date of birth : y ear:    month:    date: 
    7.3.  age up to :  y ears:   months:    days: 
 8.  Educational Qualifications :
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination G.c.E. (a/L) Examination
y ear:                              Exam No. : y ear:                               Exam No. : 
Subject Pass Subject Pass Subject Pass 
 9.  Qualifications on Higher Education: 
   9.1. degree :––––––––––.
  9.2. University :––––––––––.
  9.3. Valid date of the degree :––––––––––. 
  9.4. main Subjects followed for the degree :––––––––––.
  9.5. the medium of the degree :––––––––––.
 10.  details of Examination fees:
  10.1. Examination fees paid in rupees (in words) :––––––––––. 
  10.2. Receipt Number :––––––––––.
  10.3. Post office / Sub Post office :––––––––––. 
  10.4. date :––––––––––. 
Affix one edge of the receipt here firmly 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with you 
i hereby certify that the information given in this application is true and accurate to my knowledge. i am fully 
aware that i will be expelled from service if it were revealed after my selection that any of the information provided in this 
application is incorrect. moreover, i hereby declare that i am subjected to the rules enacted by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature.
date :––––––––––––.
 11.  attesting the signature of the applicant :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./ms ……………………………………is known to me personally and he / she placed 
her signature in front of me on …………. ………… She has duly paid the examination fees and affixed the receipt. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer
  attesting the signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2635
 12.  Certification of the head of the department in the event 
of the applicant is a government servant :
i hereby forward the application of mr. /mrs. / miss 
…………………… He/she is currently serving as a 
permanent / casual / temporary employee in this ministry / 
department. in the event of his / her selection to the above 
post, he / she could be released from her service. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Head of the Department or Authorized Officer.
date :––––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––––.
ministry / department :––––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
11–524
–––––––––––––––––
 (f) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 
35 years of age as at 24.11.2017
 (g) the effective date of the degree should be date 
prior to 24.11.2017
04. Method of Application  :
 (a) the application should be prepared in accordance 
with specimen form appended to this. Papers in 
the size of a4 should be used for this. cages from 
1 to 12 should appear on the first page and cages 
from 13 to 15 should appear on the second page 
and 16 should appear on the third page.
 (b) Receipt obtained by paying the amount of Rs. 300 
to the credit of the account of the director General of 
Health Services – Collection of Examination Fees 
No.7041318 of the bank of ceylon thaprobane 
branch should be affixed in the cage given in 
the application. this fee is neither refunded nor 
allowed to transfer to another examination for any 
reason.
 (c) Signature of the applicant should be attested 
by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service/ an officer in the Sri Lanka Educational 
administrative Service / a Principal of a 
Government school / a Justice of the Peace/ an 
Attorney at – Law / or an officer who holds a 
permanent and pensionable post in the Public 
Service and obtains a consolidated salary not less 
than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
 (d) on the top left hand corner of the envelope in which 
the application is enclosed , it should be mentioned 
the words ''Recruitment of b.Sc. (Nursing) 
Graduates for orientation and co – ordination 
course in Nursing – 2017'' and the relevant degree 
and the academic year. the applications should 
be sent by registered post to reach the director 
(Admin) 01, Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous medicine, ''Suwasiripaya", 385, Rev. 
baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, 
colombo 10, before 24.11.2017.
Note.– Candidate should have satisfied qualifications 
given under above (2) and (3) and all other 
qualifications by 24.11.2017 in all respects.
05. applications of the employees of public or semi – 
government institutions should be sent through the respective 
RECRuITmENT Of b.SC. (NuRSING) 
GRADuATES fOR ThE ORIENTATION AND 
COORDINATION COuRSE IN NuRSING – 2017
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens 
who have obtained the b.Sc. in Nursing from National 
Universities recognized by the University Grants commission 
to recruit to the orientation and coordination course in nursing 
of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
01. from the applicants, 25% of the annual training 
requirement will be selected based on a priority list prepared 
according to the effective date of the degree and GP a and 
considering the existing vacancies.
02. Other educational qualifications relevant to the post
Should have completed b.Sc. in Nursing in a National 
University recognized by the University Grants commission.
03. Physical fitness and other qualifications  :
 (a) Each candidate should be fit physically to serve in 
any part of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Should be fit physically to discharge duties in the 
post.
 (c) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 (d) Should be excell ent in character.
 (e) both males and females may apply.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2636
Head of Department. And you should also note that this is 
an external recruitment and you cannot be reverted to the 
current post if you are able or not able to complete the 
relevant course successfully.
06. applications which are not in compliance with the 
terms of the general circular incomplete, not in compliance 
with the specimen form of application, not completed 
the basic qualifications and in which no bank receipt is 
affixed and not registered on or before 24.11.2017 will be 
rejected without any notice and receipt of applications is not 
acknowledged.
07. From the applicants who have fulfilled above 
qualifications, applicants selected based on a priority list 
prepared considering the effective date of the degree and the 
GPa are only called for the interview , a general interview 
will be conducted by an interview board appointed by 
the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous medicine and the interview board will check the 
qualifications mentioned in the Nursing Service Minute and 
this Gazette notification and the  physical fitness.
Note :-
 (a) the number of the recruitments to the training 
and the number of applicants called for interview 
will be decided by the Secretary of the ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine on 
the exigency of service.
 (b) No section contained herein shall be deemed 
to imply or be construed to mean that all those 
who attended the interview are recruited to the 
training.
 (c) Particulars of the applicants who are qualified, 
disqualified at the interview an those who are 
not selected are published on the web site www.
health.gov.lk and no one will be informed in 
person.
08. applicants should produce at the interview the 
originals of the following documents and the copies certified 
by himself / herself :
 (a) Birth Certificate ;
 (b) Originals of the degree certificate and the 
certificate which indicates the GPA (Certified 
copies of these documents should be sent along 
with the applica tion) ;
 (c) National identity card or valid passport or 
driving license.
09. Procedure of training  :
Course Duration of 
the course
Medium
orientation and 
coordination 
course in nursing
06 months English
 (a) Selected applicants are attached to the relevant 
training school to follow the orientation and 
coordination course. the course should be 
followed in the medium of English.
 (b) t rainees admitted to the training schools shall 
be subject to the rules and regulations of the 
training schools and any other order imposed by 
the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
medicine from time to time .
 (c) t raining of those who do not complete the 
training successfully at the end of training period, 
whose work and conduct are not satisfactory or 
who fail to adhere to terms and conditions of the 
training school may be terminated at any time 
without compensation.
 (d) during the period of training, the monthly 
allowance paid to the student nurses in the third 
year is paid subject to the provisions given in 
Public administrative circular 03/2016.
 (e) at the time he/she is admitted to the training, 
he / she should enter in to an agreement and a 
surety bond with Director General of Health 
Services that he/she will complete the training 
successfully, not abandon the training course 
and serve in the post concerned in the hospital of 
relevant Provincial council or the Line ministry 
to which he/she is appointed or in department 
of Health for at least a period of 5 years if an 
appointment is granted at the completion of 
the said training. the agreement and the surety 
bond should be submitted to the EtR branch on 
the same day of registration. if he/she resigns 
from the training or leaves the training during 
the training period or his / her training has to be 
terminated in terms of above (c) or fails to serve 
in the post concerned in the hospital of relevant 
Provincial council or the Line ministry to which 
he/ she is appointed or in Department of Health 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2637
for a period of 5 years after the appointment he/
she should refund the Department of Health the 
expenses incurred by the Government and the 
amount of the surety bond. if not legal action 
will be taken to recover the said amount as per 
the agreement.
10. Terms of engagement .– at the end of the training, grant 
or not grant of permanent appointments to the post concerned 
will be decided based on the number of vacancies existing at 
the time. If the Ministry of Health , Nutrition and Indigenous 
medicine decided to grant permanent appointments to the 
post concerned, candidates will be appointed to the post of 
staff Nursing Officer in Grade III subject to the conditions 
in the scheme of recruitment applicable to the training they 
were admitted and considering the number of vacancies 
and they will be placed on the salary relevant to the salary 
code mt – 7 2016 mentioned in Schedule i of the Public 
administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2017. it shall 
be noted that if a candidate is granted an appointment, 
he / she will be paid salary according to the provisions in 
Schedule ii of the Public administration circular 03/2016.
11. Particulars regarding the educational and other 
qualifications should be mentioned carefully and accurately 
in filling the applications. If the certificates were found to 
be false after admission to the training or after receiving an 
appointment, action will be taken to refer the case to the 
criminal investigation department in order to take legal 
action and to cancel the appointment and dismiss from the 
training / post and disciplinary action will be taken and his 
/ her name will be entered into the blacklist which is and 
index of the names of persons who will not be employed by 
the government, further, action will be taken to recover the 
allowance paid to him / her during the period of training, 
expenses borne by the Government and the sum of the 
surety bond.
12. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a 
medical examination within the first month of the training to 
prove that they are physically and mentally fit to follow the 
course concerned and to serve in any part of the island and 
the applicants found not to be fit in the medical examination 
will not be eligible to continue the course.
13. trainees have no right to engage either in trade union 
activities or in private practice during the period of training. 
if found to have done so, action will be taken to terminate 
the training or to take any other appropriate action.
14. all recruited as above will be subject to all rules and 
regulations applicable to the Public Officers, and provisions 
of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, polices prescribed by the department of 
Health, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, 
financial Regulations and the Nursing Service minute and 
amendments made thereto from time to time and general 
regulations imposed by the Government from time to time.
15. ministry is not bound to provide residential facilities 
at the training schools for the applicants recruited to the 
training. if so provided assessed house and room rental, 
water and electricity bills will be charged.
16. in case any problem arises in respect of any matter 
regarding recruitment to the training which is covered or not 
covered by this Gazette notification decision of the Secretary 
to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
shall be final and in case of any inconsistency between the 
text in Sinhala, tamil and English, the text in Sinhala shall 
prevail.
 janaka sugathadasa, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health , 
 Nutrition and ind igenous medicine.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine
''Suwasiripaya''
Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10.
Specimen form of Application
REcRUitmENt of b.S.c. (NURSiNG) GRadUatES 
FOR THE ORIENTATION AND COORDINATION 
coURSE iN NURSiNG – 2017
Read the General Circular carefully before perfect the 
application.
01. (a) Last name with initials. (in English capital letters) 
:––––––––––.
 (b) Name in full (in English capital letters) :––––––––.
 (c) Name in full (in Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  N.i.c. No. :––––––––––.
03.  Postal address :––––––––––.
04.  Permanent address  :––––––––––.
05.  telephone No. :––––––––––.
06. (a) district of residence :––––––––––.
 (b) Whether you are a permanent resident in this 
district ? :––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2638
07. (a)  date of birth :
  y ear :––––––––.  month :––––––––.  date :––––––––.
 (b) age as at 24.11.2017 :
  y ears :––––––. months :–––––––. days :––––––. 
08.  Gender :
  female   male  
(mark  in the relevant cage)
09.  Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
 y es   No 
  (mark  in the relevant cage)
10.  civil Status :
  Single  married 
  (mark  in the relevant cage)
11.  Height : Feet :–––––––. Inches :–––––––.
12.  Education Qualification :
Degree 
obtained
effective 
date of 
the degree
G PA university Academic 
year
13. Have you ever been convicted before a court a law ?  
 y es  No 
 (mark  in the relevant cage)
 
 if so give particulars :–––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the applicants :
i solemnly declare that i read carefully and understood 
the Gazette Notification and perfected it subject to all 
conditions therein, that i do not attend any full time course 
and that the particulars furnished by me in the application 
are true and correct to my knowledge.
i am also aware that if this declaration or any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect i am 
liable to be disqualified for the training and if so found after 
appointment i am liable to be dismissed. 
i am also aware that this is an external recruitment and if 
i complete / not complete the training successfully i cannot 
be reverted to the current post in any manner.
Affix here the blank receipt obtained by
paying Rs. 300
  –––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
15.  attesta tion of the signature of the applicant :
i, hereby certify that mr/mrs/miss ............................
....................................... who submit this application is 
personally known to me and he / she placed his/her and 
signature on ....................................... in my presence.
    ––––––––––––––,
    Signature and official frank of Attestor.
date :––––––––––.
full name of attestor :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
16. Certification of the Head of Department if the candidate 
is serving in the Public Service / Provincial Public 
Service (delete irrelevant words) :
 
i hereby certify that the above candidate mr/mrs/miss ...
............................... holds the post of ....................................
................................... in this department.
i certify that the particulars furnished in the application 
are true and he / she  can / can not be  released if he / she is 
selected for the post.
i also inform that he / she was explained that this is 
an external recruitment, he / she can not be reverted to 
the current post in any manner after he / she successfully 
completes or not complete the training concerned.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature and official frank of 
 the Head of Department.
date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of Department :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
11–566

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2639
Town Town No.
matara 08
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
mullaitivu 12
t rincomalee 14
batticaloa 15
kurunegala 18
anuradhapura 19
badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
killinochchi 25
4.0 (i) this Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner - General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii) the rules and regulations for candidates have been 
separately printed in the Gazette Notification. 
candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations.
5.0 eligibility .– Officers who have been appointed to 
posts in Grade ii of Public management assistants' Service 
are eligible to appear for this examination. this examination 
should be passed within three years from the date of 
promotion to Grade ii.
Note :- Provisions for provincial management assistants' 
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial 
Public Service commissions and provisions shall 
be issued by the relevant institutions for other 
institutions concurrently to this Gazette Notification. 
In order  to identify the applications of the officers in 
each provincial public service and other institutions. 
conveniently code number should be used.  
accordingly, for the officers in combined service 
code number is 10. this number should be entered in 
the upper right side of the application where yor have 
to mention  the service you belong to.
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR 
OffICERS IN GRADE II Of PubLIC 
mANAGEmENT ASSISTANTS' 
SERvICE - 2013 (I) 2017
it  is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for 
the officers in Grade II of Public Management Assistants' 
Service will be held by the commissioner  General of 
Examinations in the month of february 2018 as per 
provisions of Para 8, Para 15, interim provisions and 
provisions in annex 05 of the approved service minute of 
Public management assistants' Service published in the 
Government Gazette  of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013.
2.0 (I) Officers who have not completed the Efficiency 
Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II mentioned in 
the previous service minute, but have passed or exempted 
from either both or one of the subjects of this examination 
namely (1) Office Systems and Procedures (2) Accounting 
Systems used in the  Government Offices shall be exempted 
from the relevant subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Grade II mentioned in this Service Minute, on 
subject to subject basis.
(ii) Officers who have been promoted to Grade II before 
the date of implementation of this Service, minute, should 
pass the Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II 
before the lapse of six (06) years from the date of promotion.
3.0 This Examination for officers in Grade II of the 
Public management assistants' Service will be held 
in colombo, kandy, Galle, matara, Jaffna, mannar, 
mullaitivu, t rincomalee, batticaloa, kurunegala, 
anuradhapura, badulla, Ratnapura and killinochchi. the 
list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. 
the commissioner-General of Examinations reserves the 
right to cancel any center due to insufficiency of candidates 
or any other reason and decide an alternative as per the 
candidate's second preference of towns. the relevant section 
of the application should be filled by referring to the table of 
towns and town numbers given below. it will not be allowed 
to change  subsequently the town/towns indicate d.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
kandy 05
Galle 07

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2640
5.1 Schedule 01- the provincial code list is as follows :-
Province Code
Western Province Public Service commission 01
central Province Public Service commission 02
Southern Province Public Service commission 03
Northern Province Public Service commission 04
Eastern Province Public Service commission 05
North Western Province Public Service 
commission
06
North central Province Public Service 
commission
07
Uva Province Public Service commission 08
Sabaragamuwa Province Public Service 
commission
09
6.0 the application for this exami nation should be 
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/her self. 
applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
Commissioner - General of Examinations,
Organization and foreign Examinations branch,
Department of Examinations,
PO 1503, Colombo.
on or before 8th of December 2017. the name of the 
examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected. imcomplete 
applications, too, will not be accepted.
7.0 identity of the Candidates.- candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registrations of Persons.
 (ii) a  Valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner-General of Examinations. 
all candidates  are bound to comply with the rules and 
regulations  imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination with regard to the conducting of this 
examination. further, candidates will be subjected to the 
punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of those rules and regulations.
8.0 (i) Applications.- applications should be prepared in 
a paper of "a4" size in such a manner that Para nos. 1.0 
to 5.0 appears on the first page. The application could be 
typewritten but is should be filled in correctly and legibly 
by candidate's own handwriting. application should strictly 
conform to the specimen appended and candidates are 
advised not to send more than one application or photocopies. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and that 
have not been perfected properly will be rejected without 
notice therefore it is the responsibility of the applicant to 
make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself 
complies with the specimen given in the Examination notice 
and the application is perfected accurately including all the 
particulars and the prescribed examination fee has been paid 
and the relevant particulars are inclued in the application 
and the receipt in affixed. Please indicate the title of the 
examination appearing the specimen in English Language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application forms. it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.
Penalty for furnishing false information.- application 
should be perfected very carefully with correct information. 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
(ii) Officers appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500 for the whole examination  and 
Rs. 250 for only one subject should be paid at any post office/
sub post office island-wide to be credited to revenue head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. 
The receipt obtained thus should be affixed to the relevant 
cage of the applications form. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it is 
kindly informed that no fee shall be charged in addition to 
the examination fee. it will not be allowed to transfer the 
fee paid for this examination in favour of another. further, 
stamps or money orders are not accepted for examination 
fees.
9.0 the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue copies of the time table and  admission cards to the 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2641
officers who have sent the applications on or before the 
closing date, which are perfected accurately along with 
the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee on the 
supposition that only those who possess the qualifications 
indicated in the Gazette notification have applied. A 
notification will be published in Newspapers as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the 
department of Examinations. if  the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examination branch in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable 
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the 
department of Examinations; i.e a copy of the application 
from kept at your possession, copy of the receipt obtained 
at payment of Examination fee, name, address, national 
identity card number and the name of the examination. in 
case of the applicants outside colombo, letter of the request 
furnishing the above particulars and a fax number to which 
a copy of the admission card is to be sent to the department 
of Examination through fax. Officers who sit for the 
examination should get their signature on the admission 
card attested in advance and surrender to the supersvisor of 
the examination hall.
Note : issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the examination 
or for a post.
10.0 the admission card in which the signature have 
been attested should be produced to the supervisor of the 
examination center on the first day of the examination.
11.0 the heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses 
will be paid.
12.0 the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the institution or an officer authorized by him.
13.0 this examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. candidates should answer both question 
papers in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an official 
language. in case of candidates who entered the service 
without a competitive Examination, both papers, should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
14.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject 
and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they 
should score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for 
each subject for a pass. (for further details, refer to annex 5 
of  Public management assistant's Service minute).
15.0 For the purpose of the official Language policy, all 
officers should prepare and fill the application forms in the 
official language.
16.0 the department of Examination will issue the 
result sheet including the results of all the candidates who 
have sat for the examination to the director General of 
combined Services, ministry of Public administration and 
management. the lists of name of the candidates who have 
passed the examination will be published in the web site of 
the ministry of Public administration and management.
17.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects.
 Subject Marks Duration  Subject 
    No.
1.  Office systems and  100  02 Hrs. 01
 Procedure
2.  accounting Systems  100 02 Hrs. 02
 adopted in the Government
 offices
      t otal 200
 17.1 Office Systems and Procedure :
  this paper is intended to test the candidate's 
knowledge of office systems adopted in 
government offices and his/her ability of 
practical application of the knowledge. this 
paper consists of two parts.
Part i - a paper of multiple -choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks
Part ii - a paper of semi-structured type 
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should be 
answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2642
 17.2 Accounting Systems adopted in government 
Offices :
  candidate's knowledge in accounting Systems 
adopted in government office, books and records 
controlling accounts and orders and instructions 
of the treasury issued in relation to that and 
his/her ability of practical application of the 
knowledge will be tested. this paper consists of 
two parts. 
Part i - a paper of multiple -choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks. 
Part ii - a paper of semi-structured type 
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should be 
answered, duration is 90 minutes 75 marks. 
18.0 the decision of the director General of combined 
Services will be final, in respect of any matter not provided 
for in this notification. 
19.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this examination 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
  k. V . P. m. J. 
gamage, 
  director General of 
  combined Services.
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
27th of october, 2017.
(For Office use only)
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN   
efficiency bar examination for officers in grade ii of Public management assistants' service - 2013(i)/2017
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Grade II of Public Management Assistant's Service of the 
Combined Services shall be eligible to forward applications)
  town town No. the service to which you belong 
1.   (Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the 
2.   Gazette Notification carefully before filling 
    this section)
(indicate the name and the number of the town in which
you wish to sit for the examination as per Para 3.0 of   medium of examination :
the Gazette Notification)  Sinhala - 2
(this cannot be changed subsequently)  tamil - 3
   English - 4
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––––. 
  (eg. : HERATH  MuDIy ANSELAGE  SAMAN  kuMARA  GuNAwARDHANA)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in block capitals)  :––––––––––––––. 
  (eg. : GuNA wARDHANA, H. M. S. k.) 
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/t amil)  :––––––––––––––. 
2.0 Name and address of the Service Station : 
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In block capitals)  :––––––––––––––. 
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil)  :––––––––––––––. 
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in block capitals)  :––––––––––––––. 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2643
3.0 Gender : female - 1
    male - 0
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.0 National identity card No. : 
5.0 Subject/s you offer : 
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
  6.1 Post :––––––––––––––.
  6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :––––––––––––––.
  6.3 date of entry into Grade ii of Public management assistants' Service :––––––––––––––.
7.0  7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––––––––––––.
  7.2 if not, examination fee paid :––––––––––––––.
  7.3 Post Office/Sub Post Office :––––––––––––––.
  7.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––––––.
  7.5 date :– –––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt securely here.
(it would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt
8.0 Certificate of the candidate : 
i, declare that the information furnished above is correct and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for the 
first time/the receipt issued on payment of examination fee of Rs. ...................... to the post office/sub post office ................. 
on ..................... is affixed above. I agree to abide by the decisions made by the Commissioner General of examinations on 
conducting of the examination and all the provisions of the Examination act. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate. 
date :––––––––––––––.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to 
sign on behalf of such Head of Department.
Attestation of the Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who is an officer in my office and who is known to me personally, 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ..................... Since he/she sit for the examination for the first time, it is not 
necessary for him/her to paid the relevant examination fee and that the receipt has been affixed.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
Name :––––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––.
date :––––––– –––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'11'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2017
2644
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i, certify that, 
 (i) the particulars furnished by the candidate have been examined,
 (ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Services,
 (iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the examination earlier,
 (iv) *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying the relevant fee to this application form since *he/she 
has appeared for the examination and ;
 (v) the candidate is eligible to sit the examination. 
  *(delete inapplicable words)
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp of the Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––– ––––.
designation :––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––––.
11–593
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANkA.