

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
699
wxl 1"767 - 2012 cQ,s 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'07'13
No. 1,767  – FRIDAY , JULY 13, 2012
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 700
By-Laws ... 701
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
699
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th July,
2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
700
Local Government Notifications
SERUWILA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952
THE following decision taken by the Seruwila Pradeshiya Sabha by virtue of the power vested in North East Provincial Council un der
Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952 is hereby notified.
THE DECISION
The Seruwila Pradeshiya Sabha do hereby decide under Sections 122, 126 with Section 221(a) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of the 1987, to adopt and approve to come in force in the area of Authority of Seruwila Pradeshiya Sabha with effect from the d ate on
which this decision is published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the By-Laws Part I and Section No. 1
– 42 of Part II of the said Standard By-Laws, framed by the Honourable Minister of Local Government, Housing and Construction a nd
published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 520/7 of 23rd August, 1988, Part IV – Local Government and decided and approved by the
Honourable Governor, North East Province to the limits of the North East Province, on which the decision published in Part IV o f the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, No. 842 of 21.10.1994.
W. M. N. P. WIJEYASINGHE,
Chairman,
Seruwila Pradeshiya Sabha,
Serunuwara.
Seruwila Pradeshiya Sabha,
Serunuwara,
05th June, 2012.
07-299
–––––––––––––––
UDUNUWARA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272)
NOTICE is hereby given under Section 7(2) of the Butchers Ordinance (272 Chapter) that the person mentioned in the Schedule bel ow
has made an application to me for license to carry on butchery and meat stall in the premises stated against his name for the y ear 2012.
02. Any person residing within the administrative limits of the Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, who desires to object the issue
of license, is hereby called upon to furnish to me in duplicate within fourteen (14) days of publication in the Gazette, written statement
of the ground of his or her objection.
R. M. BANDULA SENEVIRATNA,
Chairman,
Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha,.
Udunuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Gelioya,
18th of June, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Serial Name and Address of Place of the Meat Stall Place of the Butchery
No. the Applicant
01 Mr. Muyenudeen Mohamed Iqbal, No. 135, Daulagala, Handessa No. 195/1, Mahingoda, Handessa.
No. 157, Penideniya, Peradeniya
07–297

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
701
By–Laws
DARANIYAGALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-laws
WE shall notify that the following By-laws are enacted by the
Daraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the
administrative authority of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial
Council, under the power granted by Article 122 and Article 126 of
Act, No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha Laws, and these By-laws are
approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa
Province under the power granted to him by Article 123 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
M
AHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
11th June, 2012.
THE UTILIZATION OF ROADS BELONG TO
DERANIYAGALA PRADESHIYA SABHA THE BY-LAW OF
ADMINISTRATION AND FORMALIZA TION
01. This By-Law is named as "The By-law of administration
and formalization of vehicles transporting on roads
belongs to Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha".
02. The aim of enacting this By-law is minimizing the damages
of roads and controlling and formalizing of heavy vehicles
transportation on Pradeshiya Sabha roads and other roads
which are not belong to other authority.
03. This By-law is activated from the publishing date of
Gazette.
04. (i) Here onward the Vehicles as Tipper, Tractors the
heavy Vehicles which are used to construct roads or
metal, sand and all building materials, minerals or
rubber products exceeding Two Tons are not allowed
to transport without bearing a certificate issued by
the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha under, first sub
statement.
(ii) Dragging of logs or timber on these road using animals
or tractors are not allowed.
(iii) It is not allowed to transport the vehicles without
air pressure tyre, unless loading an another vehicle
and any Pradeshiya Sabha road.
05. (i) According to second By-law of the sub constitution
if anyone transports, building construction material,
agricultural products, timber or machinery on above
mentioned roads who is not allowed to transport
without having a permission from Chairman after
paying the fund mentioned in the first sub statement.
(ii) Accor ding to second By-law of the sub constitution
if any transport, building materials, agricultural
products, timber or machinery on roads shared in
the Constitution the person should be taken
permission from Chairman at least before 3 days.
(iii) According to a request as 5 (ii) a report will be taken
by the Chairman through a technical officer or an
officer authorized by Chairman, and a deposit will
be have to be paid as a guarantee, considering the
anticipating damage.
(iv) The permission should not be given unless the
necessary funds are paid, and agreement is made
according to the sub constitution 5 (iii).
(v) If a request is made under 5 (iv) constitution to get
deposited the fund back. First 10% recovery will be
made as department fund and an assessment should
be made if there is a damage.
(vi) It is legal to order the particular personalities to pay
the additional funds if there is a damage more than
deposited guarantee. In such occassion if some
someone escapes from paying the necessary fund, it
is liable to file a case in the court and Pradeshiya
Sabha has the authority to recharge the fund.
(vii) The contractors who have made agreements with
Pradeshiya Sabha should be made requests in written
to set free from the said fund as in first sub statement.
06. A special permission issued by Chairman or an authorized
officer should be taken after paying the money as in the
first sub statement.
07. All the permission issued by Pradeshiya Sabha according
to the sub constitution is legal to be examined by the
Chairman or Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha or an Officer
authorized by above Chairman or Secretary.
08. It is an offence to brake or avoid the statements or any
statement which have been mentioned in the by
constitution and a mean time if someone has been made
an accused from a court according to the statement 122
(2) of No. 15, 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha Act who has to pay
the fine and also if the offence is done continuously, in
such occassion the special attention is made by the
Chairman or Secretary or an Officer of authorized by
them and if the officer is made after handing over the
information in written by above officers. A special fine
ordered according to the 122 (2) statement of No. 15,
1987 Pradeshiya Sabha should be surrendered.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
702
09. At the implementation of this By-law the final decision
is taken by the Chairman.
10. According to this By-law in time to time the funds related
to it liable to be changed and Pradeshiya Sabha has the
power of amendments of funds.
11. If there is a misinterpretation of the meaning of this By-
law the Sinhala script is to be considered to be powered.
12. For the implementation of this sub constitution –
“Pradeshiya Sabha” as Pradeshiya Sabha at Deraniyagala,
“Chairman” as Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha at
Deraniyagala,
“Secretary” as Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha at
Deraniyagala,
“Authorized Officer” as an Officer in Pradeshiya Sabha
of Deraniyagala authorized by the Chairman or Grama
Niladhari or Officer of Police.
F
IRST SUB STATEMENT
01. Transport of sand, soil or other minerals :–
For 2 cubes -  100 Rupees
For 2 cubes - 150 Rupees
The cubes exeeding every 3 cubes - 50 Rupees
02. Transport of firewood, yellow
bamboo (For single transport) - 500 Rupees
Transport of timber for single
transport -  1,000 Rupees
Construction Machine
(Not chain loader) - 1,500 Rupees
03. Agricultural transport :–
1. Everyday or more than
5 days per month -  200 Rupees
2. Not every day of less
than 5 days - 100 Rupees
07-433
–––––––––––––––
YATIYANTHOTA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-laws
WE shall notify that the following By-laws are enacted by the
Yatiyanthota Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the
administrative authority of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial
Council, under the power granted by Article 122 and Article 126 of
Act, No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha Laws, and these By-laws are
approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa
Province under the power granted to him by Article 123 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
M
AHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
11th June, 2012.
YATIYANTOTA PRADESHIYA SABHA
BY-LAWS RELATING TO THE MAINTENANCE OF CREMA TORIUM
01. These By-laws may be cited as ‘The By-laws for
cremation of corpses, fixing of charges, collecting of
charges, and regularization of the ruling of the crematorium;
that situated at the public burial ground, Hamandha,
belongs to Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. No any corpse shall be cremated in the crematorium
without permission issued by the Chairman or another
officer who is assigned into the power by the Chairman
of Pradeshiya Sabha, Yatiyantota.
03. Any person (herein after means Applicant) who intends
to get permission mentioned in section 02 in these By-
laws shall forward an application prepared according to
schedule 01 to the Chairman with under mentioned
documents.
(i) A certificate issued by the Grama Seva Niladhari of
the Grama Niladhari Division where the deceased
had lived.
(ii) The certificate of permission for cremation the
corpse issued under Section 41.3 of the Births and
Deaths Registration Act by the coroner, if he held
inquest in to the death of the corpse under the
Criminal Procedure Code.
(iii) If a corpse of a still birth, the certificate issued under
Section 43 (1) of Births and Deaths Registration
Act.
04. It shall be recorded in sequence, after the prepared
application has been received to the Chairman.
05. If the corpse shall be delivered for cremation, the
permission shall be issued to the appliant after collecting
of due fee. The time of delivery the corpse to the caretaker
of the crematorium shall be mentioned in the permission.
06. If the corpse shall not be accepted for cremation, the
reason for that shall be informed to the applicant in writing.
07. Corpses shall be accepted for cremation within the time
period from 6.00 a. m. to 8.00 p. m. in everyday.
08. Corpse shall be delivered by the applicant to the
crematorium on or before the time mentioned in
permission. The Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
703
for any inconvenience or damages that cause from late
delivery.
09. No fee shall be charged for the cremation of a corpse of
any Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Member, Officer or
employee of the Sabha who serve or had served at the
Sabha.
10. The care-taker of the crematorium shall record the details
of each corpse that cremated at the crematorium such as
applicant’s name and address, deceased’s name and
address of the place where the deceased had lived before
the death, the relation between the applicant and the
deceased and date and time of the cremation.
11. The Ashes shall be taken by the applicant or authorized
person of him before the expiring of seven days from the
cremation day of the corpse. Where the Ashes shall not
be taken within that period, the chairman has the power
to exclude the Ashes in any manner.
12. No person shall enter the premises of the crematorium
without permission of the care-taker of the crematorium
or the Chairman. However, it is considerable for any
person or persons who came with the permit holder to
cremate the corpse having permission.
13. Even though a corpse has been delivered to the
crematorium for cremation, the Chairman has the power
to bury the corpse, if the corpse shall be unable to cremate
before or during of cremation on electric failure or
technical faults.
14. No person shall behave in a disorderly manner or disturb
to the duties of the care-taker of the crematorium or his
assistants or decorate in or about the premises of the
crematorium. If it shall be damaged to the property of the
Sabha situated within the premises of the crematorium,
action shall be taken to value that damage by an authorised
officer and collect the damage.
15. Any person who violates any section in these By-laws
shall be guilty of an offence and on being convicted by a
court of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to fines that
mentioned sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
16. It is a duty of the Sabha to maintain and update the
crematorium in due condition for cremation of corpses. If
the crematorium has been closed for a short period to
maintain or restore, it is the duty of the Chairman to
display a notice of that on a visible place at the
crematorium and on the notice board of the Sabha.
17. The Sabha shall determine the fees to collect for cremation
of corpses by a resolution in annually. The fees determined
by that way may be amended by the Sabha in any
occassion where the Sabha is considerable to do so.
18. The term "Sabha" means the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Yatiyantota, the term "Chairman" means the Chairman of
the Pradeshiya Sabha, Yatiyantota, or any officer received
written order of vesting power from the chairman of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Yatiyantota, "care-taker of the
crematorium" means any person who appointed as the
care-taker of the crematorium of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Yatiyantota and "Corpse" means corpse or a partition of
a corpse of a human or a body of a still birth.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this By-law the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
APPLICATION FOR THE CREMATION OF CORPSES AT
THE  CREMATORIUM OF THE PRADESHIYA
SABHA, YATIYANTOTA
01. Name and the address of the Applicant :–––––––––––.
(i) National Identity Card’s No. :–––––––––––.
(ii) Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
02. Name of the deceased :–––––––––––.
(i) Resided Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
(iii) National Identity Card’s No. :–––––––––––.
03. Relation between the applicant and the deceased :––––––––.
04. Number and the date of the Death Certificate :–––––––––––.
(Attach the copies of death certificate)
05. Name and address of the registrar of death :–––––––––––.
06. Cause of death :–––––––––––.
07. Date and time, if the inquest in to the death was held :–––––.
08. Name and designation of the inspecting officer :––––––––––.
09. Deduction of the inspecting officer :–––––––––––.
10. Where the permission for cremation of the corpse is obtained
:–––––––––––.
11. Date and time for cremation :–––––––––––.
12. A receptacle that mentioned name and address to repose Ashes
has been/has not been provided :–––––––––––.
I certify that all information mentioned above is true and correct.
Related certificates have been attached.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Recommendations of the subject Officer :
Permission is given/not given for the cremation of the corpse.
Chairman,
Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha.
07-434

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'13
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2012
704
ARANAYAKA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-laws
WE shall notify that the following By-laws are enacted by the
Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative
authority of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council, under
the power granted by Article 122 and Article 126 of Act, No. 15 of
1987 Pradeshiya Sabha Laws, and these By-laws are approved by
the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa Province
under the power granted to him by Article 123 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act.
M
AHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
11th June, 2012.
SUB LAWS OF CONTROLLING AND REGULARIZING
UPON PARKING OF VEHICLES  -  ARANAYAKA
PRADESHIYA SABHA
The below mentioned amendments are added to the By-laws for
controlling and regularizing the vehicles parking of Aranayaka
Pradeshiya Sabha publish in the Gazette notification bearing No.
1638 dated 22nd January, 2010.
The below mentioned provision is added as a new provision :–
(22) These By-laws in English are if not clear, you have to
verify from Sinhala language By-laws and definition.
The below mentioned place is included for the Sinhala copy of
Schedule No. 1 :
Reserved place for vehicle parking Three Wheeler
Keselwatta Nearby School Junction
The below mentioned place is included for the English copy of
Schedule No. 1 :
Reserved place for Three Wheeler
vehicle parking
Ambalakanda In-front of Ambalakanda School
and nearby Bogaha
Dewanagala Dewanagala Junction the
crossing Junction to
Dewanagala Rajamaha
Viharaya
Thelleka Nearby Junction of Thelleka
Samagama
Kalvana Nearby Kalvana Budhu Medura
Millangoda Nearby Millangoda Bogaha
Maligathenna Nearby Maligathenna Vidyalaya
Kandewattha Nearby Kandewattha
Bulugahamula
The below mentioned place is included for the Tamil copy of
Schedule No. 1 :–
Reserved places for Three Wheeler
vehicle parking
Millangoda Nearby Millangoda Bogaha
Maligathenna Nearby Maligathenna Vidyalaya
Kandewattha Nearby Kandewattha
Bulugahamula
Chairman,
Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
07-435
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.