

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  6.75                                                                                                                 Postage  : Rs.    3.50
———————————
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  August 11 , 2000
PARLIAMENT OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
SUPPRESSION  OF  UNLA WFUL  ACTS  AGAINST
THE  SAFETY  OF  MARITIME  NA VIGATION
ACT,  No. 42 OF 2000
———————————
[Certified on 9th August ,  2000]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
———————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
2—H 6609— 5,550 (02/2000)
[Certified on 9th August, 2000]
L.D.—O. 13/99.
A
N  ACT  TO  GIVE  EFFECT  TO  THE  CONVENTION  FOR  THE  SUPPRESSION
OF  U NLAWFUL  ACTS  AGAINST  THE  SAFETY  OF  M ARITIME
N A VIGATION ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
WHEREAS the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation was adopted
in Rome on the Tenth day of March One Thousand Nine
Hundred and Eighty Eight :
 AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to accede to the aforesaid
Convention :
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to
give effect to Sri Lanka’s obligations under the aforesaid
Convention :
NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42
of 2000 and shall come into operation on  such date as the
Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, certifies as the
date on which the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation adopted in
Rome on March 10, 1988, (hereinafter referred to as “the
Convention”) enters into force in respect of Sri Lanka.
2. The Minster may, from time to time, by Order
published in the Gazette, certify the States which are parties
to the Convention. A State in respect of which an Order is
made   under   this   section   is   hereinafter    referred   to   as
“a Convention State”.
3. (1) Any person who, unlawfully and intentionally—
(a) seizes, or exercises control over, a ship, by force or
threat of force or by any other form of intimidation ;
Offences.
Convention
States.
Short title and
date of operation.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
(b) commits an act of violence against a person on board
a ship, which act is likely to endanger the safe
navigation of such ship ;
(c) destroys, or causes damage to, a ship or its cargo so
as to endanger, or to be likely to endanger, the safe
navigation of such ship ;
(d) places or causes to be placed, in any manner
whatsoever, a device or substance which is likely to
destroy or cause damage to a ship or its cargo and so
as to endanger, or to be likely to endanger, the safe
navigation of such ship ;
(e) destroys, or seriously damages, maritime
navigational facilities or seriously interferes with
their operation, so as to  endanger, or to be likely to
endanger, the safe navigation of a ship ;
(f) communicates information which he knows to be
false, thereby endangering the safe navigation of a
ship ; or
(g) injures or kills any person, in connection with the
commission or the attempted commission of any of
the offences set out in paragraphs (a) to (f) of this
subsection,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(2) Any person who—
(a) attempts to commit ;
(b) aids or abets the commission of ;
(c) threatens to commit,
an offence under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
In this subsection, “abet” has the same meaning as in
sections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.
(3) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of this section, shall on conviction after trial
on indictment, by the High Court be punished with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years.
(4) (a) Where the master of a ship, whether registered in
Sri Lanka or not, has reasonable grounds to suspect that any
person on board that ship has committed an offence under
subsection (1) or subsection (2), he may deliver such person
to an appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or in a Convention State.
(b) Where the master of a ship intends to deliver any person
in Sri Lanka or any other Convention State in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a), he shall give notice
thereof to an appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or the Convention
State, as the case may be—
(i) of his intention to deliver that person to an
appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or the Convention
State, as the case may be ; and
(ii) of his reasons for doing so.
(c) Any notice under paragraph (b) by a master of a ship
shall be given, wherever practicable, before that ship has
entered the territorial sea of Sri Lanka or that Convention
State, as the case may be.
(d) Where the master of a ship delivers any person to an
appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or a Convention State, as the
case may be, he shall—
(i) make to an appropriate officer in Sri Lanka or the
Convention State, as the case may be, such oral or
written statements relating to the alleged offence as
that officer may reasonably require ; and

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
(ii)deliver to that appropriate officer, such other
evidence relating to the alleged offence as is in the
master’s possession.
(e) The master of a ship who fails, without reasonable
cause, to comply with the provisions of paragraph (b) or
paragraph (d) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and
shall on conviction be punished with a fine not exceeding
fifty thousand rupees.
(f) In this subsection —
“appropriate officer” means —
(i) in relation to Sri Lanka, a police officer or an
officer of the Immigration and Emigration
Department; and
(ii) in relation to any other Convention State, an
officer discharging functions corresponding to the
functions discharged by the officers referred to
in subparagraph (i);
“Master” in relation to a ship, has the same meaning as in
the Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971.
4. (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colombo
or the High Court established by Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province shall, notwithstanding
anything in any other law, have exclusive jurisdiction to try
offences under this Act.
(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act is
committed outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to in
subsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as if
it were committed within Sri Lanka if —
(a) the offence is committed against, or on board, a ship
registered in Sri Lanka at the time the offence is
committed ;
High Court to try
offences under this
Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
(b) the person who committed the act is present in
Sri Lanka ;
(c) such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka or by
stateless person who has his habitual residence in
Sri Lanka ;
(d) during the commission of such act, a citizen of
Sri Lanka is seized, threatened, injured or killed ;
(e) such act is committed in order to compel the
Government of Sri Lanka to do, or abstain from doing,
any act.
5. Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka is
arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall be
entitled —
(a) to communicate without delay, with the nearest
appropriate representative of the State of which he is
a national or which is otherwise entitled to protect his
rights, or if he is a stateless person, with the nearest
appropriate representative of the State in the territory
of which he was habitually resident; and
(b) to be visited by a representative of that State.
6. The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is hereby amended
by the addition, immediately before Part B of the Schedule to
that Law, of the following item :—
“(45) An offence covered by the Convention for the
Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation, signed at Rome on March 10,
1988.”.
7. Where there is an extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State in
force on the date on which this Act comes into operation,
such arrangement shall be deemed, for the purposes of the
Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision for
extradition in respect of the offences specified in the Schedule
to this Act.
Rights of certain
persons arrested
for offences under
this Act.
Amendment to the
Extradition Law,
No. 8 of 1977.
Existing
extradition
arrangements with
convention States
deemed to provide
for offences in the
Schedule.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
8. Where there is no extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State, the
Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat the
Convention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of
1977, as an extradition arrangement made, by the Government
of Sri Lanka with that Convention State providing for
extradition in respect of the offences specified in the Schedule
to this Act.
9. The Government of Sri Lanka shall afford all such
assistance to, and may through the Minister request all such
assistance from, a convention State as may be necessary for
the investigation and prosecution of an offence under section
3 or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act
including, assistance relating to the taking of evidence and
statements and the serving of process.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
11. In this Act, “ship” means a vessel of any type
whatsoever not permanently attached to the seabed and
includes dynamically supported craft, submersibles and other
floating craft but does not include a warship, a ship owned or
operated by a State or used as a naval auxiliary or for customs
or police purposes or a vessel which has been withdrawn from
navigation or is laid up.
Minister may treat
convention as an
extradition
arrangement
between        Sri
Lanka and certain
convention States,
in respect of
offences in the
Schedule.
Assistance to
convention States.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
SCHEDULE [Sections 7, 8, 9]
(a) Unlawful and intentional seizure or exercise of control over,
a ship by force or threat of force or by any other form of
intimidation;
(b) Unlawful and intentional commission of an act of violence
against a person on board a ship, which act is likely to
endanger the safe navigation of such ship;
(c) Unlawful and intentional destruction of, or causing of
damage to, a ship or its cargo so as to endanger, or to be
likely to endanger, the safe navigation of such ship;
(d) Unlawful and intentional placing, or causing the placing of,
in any manner whatsoever, of a device or substance which
is likely to destroy or cause damage to a ship or its cargo so
as to endanger, or to be likely to endanger, the safe navigation
of such ship;
(e) Unlawful and intentional destruction of, or the causing of
serious damage to, maritime navigational facilities or serious
interference with their operation, so as to endanger, or to be
likely to endanger, the safe navigation of a ship;
(f) Unlawful and intentional communication of information
known to be false, thereby endangering the safe navigation
of a ship; or
(g) Unlawful and intentional injuring or killing of any person,
in connection with the commission or the attempted
commission of any of the offences set out in paragraphs (a)
to (f);
(h) attempt to commit any of the offences set out in paragraphs
(a) to (g);
(i) aiding or abetting the commission of, any of the offences
set out in paragraphs (a) to (g).

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Maritime Navigation Act, No. 42 of 2000
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.