

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 4.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 14, 2003
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 14th November, 2003]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PLANTATION
MANAGEMENT (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  38  OF  2003

<!-- page 2 -->

National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
1
Short Title.
Amendment of
section 4 of Act,
No. 45 of 1979.
2 —H 019157 —5,650 (07/2003)
[Certified on14th November, 2003]
L. D. – O. 17/99
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  PLANTA TION
M ANAGEMENT  ACT , NO . 45 OF  1979
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the National Institute of
Plantation Management (Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003.
2. Section 4 of the National Institute of Plantation
Management Act, No. 45 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as
“the principal enactment” ) as amended by Act No. 5 of 1987
is further amended as follows :—
(i) by the deletion in paragraph (h), of the word “and”;
and
(ii) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (k) of
the following new paragraphs :—
“(l) promote investment in plantation
management ;
(m ) undertake the collection and
dissemination of data relating to
plantations and plantation management,
and to conduct research to ascertain the
development potential of plantations ;
and
(n) advise the Minister on appropriate
policies relating to plantation
management and to co-ordinate with
other relevant agencies.”.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
3. Section 6 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 76 of 1981 and Act, No. 5 of 1987 is hereby further
amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the
substitution  therefor of the following new
subsection :—
“(1) the Institute shall have a Board of Governors
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting of —
(a) the following ex-officio members,
namely—
(i) the person holding office for the time
being as the Director of the National
Institute of Plantation Management
appointed under section 16 of this Act ;
(ii) the person holding office for the time
being as the Director of the Tea
Research Institute established by Act
No 52 of 1993 ;
(iii) the person holding office for the time
being as the Director of the Rubber
Research Institute; and
(iv) the person holding office for the time
being as the Director of the Coconut
Research Institute ;
(b) the following nominated members
appointed by the Minister, namely :—
(i) a representative of the Tea Small
Holdings Development Authority
established by the Tea Small Holdings
Development Authority Law, No. 35
of 1975, nominated by such
Authority ;
Amendment
of section 6 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
3
 
(ii) a representative of the Planters’
Association of Ceylon established by
the Planters’ Association of Ceylon
Ordinance (Capter 291), nominated by
such Association in consultation with
the Tea Association of Sri Lanka
(TASL) ;
(iii) two representatives of the Ministry of
the Minister in charge of the subject
of Plantation Industries, nominated by
that Minister ;
(iv) two members representing Trade
Unions, which shall be selected on
such criteria as may be determined by
the Minister in charge of the subject
of Plantation Industries ;
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph
“Trade Union” shall have the same
meaning as in the Trade Unions
Ordinance (Chapter 138);
(v) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Fiance, nominated by the Minister ;
(vi)one member, nominated by the
Federation of Tea Small Holdings
Development Societies in consultation
with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka
(TASL);
(vii) one member nominated by the Private
Tea Factory Owners’ Association, in
consultation with the Tea Association
of Sri Lanka (TASL) ;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
(viii) a representative of the Thursaviya
Societies, registered under the
Thurusaviya Fund Act, No. 23 of 2000,
nominated by such societies ;
(ix) a representative of the Coconut
Growers Association nominated by
such Association.”;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, and
the substitution therefor  of the following
subsection :—
“(2) (a) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman
from amongst the appointed members of the Board.
(b) The Chairman may resign from the office of
Chairman by letter in that behalf addressed to the
Minister.
(c) The Minister may, for reasons assigned,
remove the Chairman from the office of Chairman.
(d) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)
and (c), the term of office of the Chairman shall be
his period of membership of the Board.”.
(3) in paragraph (a) of subsection (4) of that section, by
the substitution for the words and figure “under
paragraph (c) of subsection (1)”, of the words and
figure “under paragraph (b) of subsection (1)”; and
(4) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figure “under paragraph (b) of
subsection (1)”, of the words and figure “under
paragraph (a) of subsection (1)”.
4. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of
section 6”, of the words and figures “paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of section 6”.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
5
5. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection :—
“(1) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient to
do so remove by Order published in the Gazette, any
member of the Board appointed under paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of section 6, for reasons assigned :
Provided however a member appointed under sub-paragraph
(iv) of paragraph (b), may be removed only with the concurrence
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.”.
6. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 30 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 30A  of that enactment :—
30 A . (1) The Minister may make
regulations for the purpose of carrying out or
giving effect to the principles and provisions
of the Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister
under subsection (1) shall be publsihed in the
Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as
may be spcified in such regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister
under subsection (1), shall as soon as convenient
after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any such
regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. Notification of the
date on which any regulation is deemed to be
so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.”.
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 30
A  of
the principal
enactment.
“Regulations.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
7. The members of the Board of Governors holding office
on the day immediately preceeding the date of commencement
of this Act shall continue to hold office  until such time the
Board of Governors is reconstituted under section 6 of the
principal enactment as amended by this Act.
8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Transitional
Provisions.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

National Institute of Plantation Management
(Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 2003
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.