

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
737
737
wxl 1"704 - 2011 wfm%a,a ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'04'29
No. 1,704 – FRIDAY , APRIL 29, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 739
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th May, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st April,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III and III of the Gazette No. 1,703 of 21.04.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
738
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
739
CEYLON - GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
INSTITUTE – MORATUW A
(Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development)
Admission to Full time courses
(Under the National Apprenticeship Scheme – 2011)
APPLICATIONS are invited for admission of Male and Female
Trainees for the year 2011.
Minimum Qualifications required are as follows :–
01. (a) Age.– Between 16 and 22 years as at 31.03.2011.
(b) Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination including Sinhala/Tamil Language (Medium
of Instruction) and Mathematics in one sitting.
Applicants who have special skills  :
Candidates who has placed among first three places in a
Provincial Level competition or obtained a merit or above
certificate by a National Competition of Sri Lanka
Inventors Commission in Electrical/Electronic/
Mechanical field and candidates who have completed
the above Section (b) qualifications with not less than
two attempts are also qualified to sit for the examination.
(c) Note.– Candidates following full time courses at National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA)
those who are bonded for period of 03 years or more are
not eligible to apply for these full time courses.
02. Course Medium. – All courses are conducting in Sinhala
medium. Only Automobile Course will be conducting in Tamil
medium.
03. Entrance Examination. – Applicants who possess the
requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit the admission
test provided examination fees referred to in Column 4 below have
been paid.
(a) Examination of Medium.– Sinhala and Tamil.
(b) Examination Centers .– A written examination for
admission will be conducted at Centers in Colombo,
Kandy, Galle, Badulla, Anuradhapura, Trincomalee and
Jaffna as indicated in the application form given below.
Kindly note that if an adequate number of candidates are
not available at particular centers then the management
reserve the right to change the centers by accommodating
such applications at the nearest center.
Examination subjects.– The above  Test will be based on
Mathematics, General knowledge, General Intelligence
and Technical Drawing.
04. Examination Fees. – Applicants should pay Rupees Four
Hundred only (Rs. 400) as examination fees. Paying voucher of the
Bank should be attached to the application. The application should
be forwarded together with the paying voucher of the Bank.
Account.– The payment can be made to the any Bank of Ceylon
Branch to the Accountant credit to the Account Number 681490
maintained at Moratuwa Branch.
Paying vouchers that are defaced or erased will not be accepted.
Application which do not contain a credit voucher to the value will
be rejected. Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates
those who are not appearing for the examination or on rejection of
their applications for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection. – Primary selection of candidates for
admission will be merit based on the written examination and those
who obtain the required highest marks will be summoned for an
interview for the final selection. Cut-off mark for less privileged
provinces would be decided by the Management of (GTTJ. (Less
privileged provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka Examination
Department.)
06. Final Selection .– Those who obtained highest marks from
aptitude test and interview would be considered for final selection.
40% marks are allocated for Aptitude Test and 60% for the
interview. Extra curricular activities are specially considered. The
selected candidates will have to pass a medical examination and
those who fail the medical test will be discontinued.
07. Training Courses :
Automobile - 04 years
Millwright/Fitter - 04 years
Power Electrical - 03 1/2 years
Air-con. and Ref. - 03 1/2 years
Tool Machinery - 03 1/2 years
Auto electrical - 03 years
Diesel Mechanics - 03 years
Welding - 03 years
Motor vehicle body repairer and painter - 03 years
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the under mentioned
courses of training depending on the aptitude they show in the test
conducted after 01st year of basic training.
08. Bond to be signed.– All selected candidates are required to
enter in to a bond to under go full time training at CGTTI for period
ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years respectively in their allocated
trades and enter in to agreement with the National Apprentice and
Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) as per their requirements.
In addition they will be boned to serve Sri Lanka Transport Board
for two years after successful completion of their training.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
740
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared as per
specimen form given below (A4 size) and photo copies following
certificate should also be attached with the application.
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Education Certificate ;
(c) Applicants who apply under special skills should forward
certificate of Provincial/National level competition by
Sri Lanka Inventors Commission.
The envelope in which application is enclosed should be marked,
"Recruitment of Apprentice - 2011" on the top left-hand corner.
Application forms could be down-loaded from the institute web
site : (www.cgtti.slt.lk)
10. Closing date of applications.– Application should be send to
The Manager – Human Resourse and Administration Ceylon
German Technical Training Institute, No. 582, Galle Road, Mount
Lavinia, by registered post on or before 14th June, 2011.
Manager,
Human Resourse and Administration.
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute,
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount Lavinia (Angulaí Junction),
Telephone : 011-2605625.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO FULL-TIME COURSE – 2011
THE CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE - MORATUWA
(Under the National Apprenticeship)
1. ( a) Full Name :––––––––––.
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
2. ( a) Postal Address :––––––––––.
(b) District :––––––––––.
(c) Province :––––––––––.
3. ( a) Date of Birth :––––––––––.
(b) Exact age on 31.03.2011 :  Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
4. National Identity Card or Postal Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
5. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––.
6. Educational Qualifications : Subject at the G. C. E. (O/L) should be indicated :
Only for Special skills applicants
First Year Second Year
Year :–– Index No. :–– Year :–– Index No. :––
Subjects : Grade : Subjects : Grade :
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
7. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Province/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, if t he
candidate is applying under the special skills category :––––––––––.
8. ( a) Medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test :––––––––––.
(b) Center at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission test :––––––––––.
(Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura, Badulla and Trincomalee)
(i) Name the Bank of Ceylon Branch, where payment was made :––––––––––.
(Valid copy of the paying in voucher to the value of Rs. 400 is attached herewith)
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, I am also aware that if any particulars
contained here in are found to be incorrect, I am liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
04–700

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
741
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE  OF  ENGINEERING  TECHNOLOGY
(Former Technician Training Institute) - Katunayake
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NA TIONAL
DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE 2011 BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2011 batch in respect of
the above course of studies at the Institute of Engineering
Technology (Former Technician Training Institute), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for entry.— Candidates with
qualifications mentioned below are eligibel to apply.
1.1 A Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in
one sitting including a minimum of 03 credit passes for
Mathamatics, Science and Language ;
and
1.2 Passes at the G .C.E. (A/L - New Syllabus) in Combined
Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.
2. Age.— Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.12.2011.
3. Duration and Course Schedule.— This is a four year course,
where 18 month academic instruction programme is sandwiched
with 30 month Industrial Training as given below :–
Basic Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 12 months
General Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
General Industrial Training in Industry - 12 months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 06 months
Instruction Programmes consist of Theoretical Instructions and
Course Works conducted at Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial  Establishments.
Before the commencement of the Programme 100 hrs. an
Intensive English course will be conducted. Participation of all the
selected apprentices is compulsory for the Intensive English Course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows :
A. Civil Engineering Sector :
1. Building and Structural Engineering
2. Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Water and Environmental Engineering
B. Electrical Engineering Sector :
1. Electronics Engineering
2. Electrical Power Engineering
3. Telecommunication Engineering
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector :
1. Mechanical (Automotive) Engineering
2. Mechanical (General) Engineering
3. Marine Engineering
(a) "The Quality Management System of
Marine Engineering (No. 09) Course of IET
is in accordance with the requirements of
ISO 9001 – 2008.
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course
the Institute is engaged in providing academic
instructions and industrial training
Programmes to meet the mandatory
requirements for knowledge, understanding
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at
the operational level related with STCW 95,
including its amendments and model course
7.04 of International Maritime Organization
(IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction.—  English
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a cantract
with the training establishment, which casts, mutual
obligations on both the Training Establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5,000 refundable at the
completion of the course.
Those who will be leaving the programme during the
period of the course, the deposit will not be refunded.
6.2 In the event of Industrial Training the apprentices are
required to enter into a contract with the training
establishment.
6.3 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.4 All the students registered for the above courses should
maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance during
the course period. Those who fail to obtain this
requirement are not allowed to sit for the examinations
and they have to leave the present batch and continue
with the subsequent batch.
7. Award of Certificates.—  National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of
the course.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
742
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry qualifications
as stated in para 1 within the age limit mentioned in para
2 above would be eligible. Selections will be done as given
below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be
required to sit for a written aptitude test in English
medium. (Eligible candidates will be informed in advance).
8.3 An interview will be held to select the candidates for
different fields/specializations based on preferences in
respect of fields/specializations and order of merit at the
aptitude test.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior to registration.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained
from IET web site (
www.iet.edu.lk)
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs. 100 in cash, or by post
by sending a money order for Rs. 100 with a self-addressed
stamped envelope (Rs. 5) size 9"x4" to “Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake” (Telephone Nos. : 011-2252833 ; 011-
2252834) up to 18th June, 2011. The above Money
Orders in respect should be drawn in favour of the
Accountant, Institute of Engineering Technology, payable
at Katunayake Post Office.
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from the following
offices up to 18th June 2011 on payment of Rs. 100 in
cash.
(i) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura
Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya (Telephone :
011-2863680 ; 011-2867435).
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, No. 581, Galle
Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa (Telephone :
011-2647393 ; 011-2641092).
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute,
No. 07, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya (Telephone :
011-2572977 ; 011-2532182).
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District office, Colombo, No.
242, Havelock Road, Colombo 05 (Telephone :
011-2597671-2 ; 011-2587258).
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Kalutara, Galle
Road, Beruwala (Telephone :  034-2279710).
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Gampaha, No.
56, Ananda Mawatha, Gampaha
(Telephone :  033-2227501).
(vii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Kurunegala,
Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala
(Telephone :  037-2223789).
(viii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Puttlam, Mola
Watta, Madampe (Telephone :  032-2248250).
(ix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Anuradhapura,
Airport Road, Anuradhapura (Telephone : 025-
2223178).
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Polonnaruwa,
A-6, Mahaweli Quarters, New Town, Polonnaruwa
(Telephone :  027-2223023).
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Badulla, No.
288, Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Passara Road,
Badulla (Telephone : 055-2222608).
(xii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Monaragala,
Kachcheri Complex, Monaragala (Telephone :
055-2276504).
(xiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Kandy, No.
108/2B, Thiwanka Bodhi Mawathatha, Kandy
(Telephone :  081-2201918).
(xiv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA)District Office Matale,
No. 11, Temple Road, Mandandawala, Matale
(Telephone :  066-2223173).
(xv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA)District Office Nuwara Eliya,

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
743
No. 05, Upper Lake Road, Nuwara Eliya
(Telephone :  052-2223702).
(xvi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Ratnapura, Vidyalaya
Road, New Town, Ratnapura (Telephone :  045-
2228667).
(xvii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Kegalle,
No. 440, Kandy Road, Meepitiya, Kegalle
(Telephone :  035-2223127).
(xviii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Matara, No.
27A, Open University Road, Nupe, Matara
(Telephone :  041-2226958).
(xix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Galle,
Udawatta, Baddegama (Telephone :  091-5677388).
(xx) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Hambantota,
No. 34, Mihindu Mawatha, Tangalle (Telephone :
047-2241512).
(xxi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Ampara, No.
06, G . S. Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai
(Telephone :  067-2229357).
(xxii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Trincomalee,
No. 57, Post Office Road, Trincomalee
(Telephone :  026-2221709).
(xxiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Batticaloa,
No. 16/1, New Kalmuni Road, Batticaloa.
(xxiv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Jaffna/
Mulathivu, No. 07, Temple Road, Jaffna
(Telephone :  021-2222383).
(xxv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Vavuniya,
Rajadurai Road, Wairawapuliyankulama, Vavuniya
(Telephone :  024-2220442).
(xxvi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, (NAITA) District Office Mannar, Main
Street, Mannar (Telephone :  034-3942823).
9.4 All applicants should pay non refundable fee of Rs. 500
as per the details (9.5) to any Branch of People's Bank
and paying slip need to be attached to the application,
when forwarding the application.
9.5 The Pay-In-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following :
(i) Branch Code and Account No. 276-1-001-2-
4535909.
(ii) Credit Instruction : To the credit of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
Collection Account No. 276-1-001-2-4535909 at
People's Bank, Katunayake.
(iii) Name and the Address of the Applicant.
9.6 Who are obtaining applications and details from IET
website, they have to pay total Rupees 600 as the
examination fee.
9.7 Duly filled application form, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the “Director/Principal, Institute
of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake
along with the Pay-In-Slip duly signed by an Authorized
Officer of the Bank, on or before 18th June, 2011 ”. Left
hand corner of the envelope "Recruitment of Special
Apprentices – 2011 Application". Late application or
application forwarded by, by hand will not be accepted.
9.8 Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.9 Originals or copies of certificates should not be sent along
with the application.
9.10 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) will not
consider or be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in
the mail. Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman.
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
744
For office use For office use
(AP No.) (Index No.)
NATIONAL APPRENTICE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING AUTHORITY
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY – KATUNAYAKE
(FORMER TECHNICIAN TRAINING INSTITUTE)
Application for the recruitment of Special Apprentices in Engineering for National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences (NDES) Course – 2011 Batch
1. Name in full  :
2. Name with initials :
3. Address :
(i) Telephone No.
4. District :
5. Divisional Secretariat :
6. Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
7. Sex : (M/F) :
8. National Identity Card No. :
9. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. O/L : Subjects passed at one and same sitting
Year :         Examination Centre :           Index No. :
Subject Grade
1. Mathematics
2. Science
3. Language
4.
5.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.


<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
745
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) : Subjects passed in one sitting :
Year :         Examination Centre :           Index No. :
Average z score :
Subject Combined Maths Physics Chemistry
Grade
(iii) Number of sittings for G . C. E. A/L Exam :
10. Order of preference of fields of specialization :
(Mark from 1 to 09 based on order of preference)
Serial No. Field Code Preferences
1. Buidling and Structural Engineering CB
2. Highway and Railway Engineering CH
3. Water and Environmental Engineering CW
4. Electronics  Engineering EE
5. Electrical Power Engineering EP
6. Telecommunication Engineering ET
7. Mechanical (Automotive) Engineering M A
8. Mechanical (General) Engineering M G
9. Marine Engineering M M
11. Stick paying receipt :
I do hereby certify that the information furnished above is true and correct and confirm to the qualifications laid in the
advertisement and I have not registered for full time Degree or Diploma in a University or any other Government Academic Institutions.
I hereby state that I am prepared to accept discontinuance from the training programme without any claim for compensation, if any of the
above information is found to be false ro inaccurate even after the commencement of the training programme.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
For office use only
M
INISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
NA TIONAL APPRENTICE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING AUTHORITY
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY – KATUNAYAKE
(FORMER TECHNICIAN TRAINING INSTITUTE)
Application for the recruitment of Special Apprentices in Engineering for National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences (NDES) Course – 2011 Batch
Instructions for completing the Application Form :
1. The application, as stated in the Gazette notification should be on an application form obtained from an office of the
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority. And also application can be downloaded from www.iet.edu.lk web
site. All other applications will be rejected.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.04.2011
746
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
2. Those who do not posses all the qualifications, as required in the Gazette notification need not apply.
3. The application form should be filled by the applicant in clear English handwriting.
4. ( a) The applicants who obtained application by paying Rs. 100 should pay Rs. 500 to any branch of People's Bank and
the Play-in-slip obtained from the Bank should be sent with the application.
(a1) The applicants who have obtained applications and details from IET Web site have to pay total Rs. 600 to any branch
of People's Bank and the Pay-in-Slip obtained from the Bank should be sent with the application.
(b) The Pay-in-slip needs to be duly perfected with the following :
(i) Branch Code and Account No. : 276-1-001-2-4535909.
(ii) Credit Instruction : To the credit of Institute of Engineering Technology collection Account No. : 276-1-001-2-
4535909 at People's Bank, Katunayake.
(iii) Name and the address of the applicant.
(c) Duly filled application form, should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director/Principal, Institute of
Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake on or before 18th June, 2011 along with the Pay-in-slip. Late
applications will be rejected.
N. B.– All particulars sought in the application form should be furnished and no blank space should be left.
04–701