

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'01
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.04.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2221$54 - 2021 wfm%a,a ui 01 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2021'04'01
No. 2221/54  -  THURSDAY ,    APRIL    01,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations &  C., by the President
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  G  33905 — 385  (04/2021)
My No.     PS/CSA/00/1/14/28
BY HIS EXCELLENCY GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA
PRESIDENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
To :
1. Hon. Dhammika Priyantha Samarakoon Jayawardena Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Hon. Khema Kumudini Wickremasinghe
Judge of the Supreme Court
3. Hon R.M. Sobhitha Rajakaruna Esquire
Judge of the Court of Appeal
Greetings !
Whereas, I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, reposing great trust
and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, have in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the Special
Presidential Commission of Inquiry Law No. 7 of 1978, read with the Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry (Special
Provisions) Act No. 4 of 1978, appointed you, the said,
 Seal GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'01
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.04.2021
2A
1. Hon. Dhammika Priyantha Samarakoon Jayawardena Esquire
Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Hon. Khema Kumudini Wickremasinghe
Judge of the Supreme Court
3. Hon R.M. Sobhitha Rajakaruna Esquire
Judge of the Court of Appeal
“To act upon the below mentioned matters :
I. Violating the provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, while destructing the
oath which had been given in accordance with the provisions of the said Constitution.
II. Abuse or misuse of power, interference, fraud, corruption, criminal misuse, criminal breach of trust or nepotism.
III. Political retaliation against some one
IV . When,
(a) Making any appointment or transfer,
(b) Granting a promotion,
(c) Terminating the service, of some one
Due to any type of disorder
(d) Violating of any written law
as my Commissioners, in order to further investigate and report whether the above malpractices have been done and to what
extent are the respondents as referred to in Extra Ordinary Gazette No. 2212/53 dated 29.01.2021 so responsible, and to
recommend whether a person should be subjected to a community disability according to the provisions of Article 81 of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Section 9 of the Special Presidential Commissions of
Inquiry Act No. 7 of 1978, as amended by the Special Presidential Commissions of Inquiry (Special Provisions) Act No. 4 of
1978".
And whereas, the said order made by me on the 28
th day of January 2021, was published in the Government Gazette
(Extraordinary) bearing No. 2212/53 of Friday, 29th January 2021.
And whereas, now, I am of the considered view that in consideration of the several specific findings,
decisions and recommendations made against and/or in respect of the specific persons identified in the said report submitted
to me by the Presidential Commission of Inquiry constituted by me by the warrant issued on 9
th of January 2020, under the
seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in terms of Section 2 of the Presidential Commissions of Inquiry Act
(Chapter 393) as amended, that such specific findings, decisions and recommendations contained in the said Report, in
respect of all such identified persons, should inter-alia in the public interest and for purposes of greater scrutiny, be furth er
inquired into by you, and to report to me on the suitability and the justifications, if any, for the implementation and enforcement
of the said findings, decisions and recommendations contained in the said Report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry,
as well as for the adoption of any action in respect thereof.
And whereas, therefore, towards that specific purpose, I am of the view that, acting in terms of Section 5 of the
Special Presidential Commissions of Inquiry Law, read with Section 2(1) thereof, that the original terms of reference issued to
you, should be enlarged by way of amendment, so as to additionally insert the following item, as item No. 2, in the terms of
reference :-
2. Without prejudice to the particular specificity of the matters to be inquired into and reported upon by you, in
terms of item No. 1 of the original Terms of Reference, issued to you, as contained in the Gazette (Extraordinary) No. 2212/53
published on 29, January, 2021, in addition thereto, to also inquire into and report whether all or any of the findings, decisions
and recommendations contained in the aforesaid report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry, made in respect of all the

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'04'01
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.04.2021
3A
persons identified therein, are justified and whether any or all of the same, should be implemented or caused to be implemented,
or otherwise pursued and if you, in your discretion deem so necessary, to cause any limited or general investigation or further
investigation, into any matter arising from and within the terms of this amended terms of reference, or in the alternative
thereto, limiting your inquiry to the detailed consideration and comprehensive scrutiny of the contents of the aforesaid
Report Per Se, either in general, or in particular, as you may deem fit.
I do hereby require you to take all such steps that may be required in the execution of the above additional terms of
reference and functions of the Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry, reposing great trust and confidence in your
integrity, prudence, ability and fidelity.
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this 01 day of April, 2021.
By Order of His Excellency,
 P. B. J
AYASUNDARA,
 Secretary to the President.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.