

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 20.08.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2085$1 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 20 jeks i÷od - 2018'08'20
No. 2085/1 -  MONDAY   AUGUST 20,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
MAITHRIPALA S IRISENA.
Presidential Directive
ESTABLISHMENT of a Special Agency by His Excellency the President in the exercise of powers vested in His Excellency
by Article 33(2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to conduct a study of existing salary
structures in the public service, to minimize salary anomalies among different services in the entire public service and in
State Corporations, Statutory Boards and Government owned companies through a systematic evaluation of the nature of
the role and responsibilities of the staff of such services and to make recommendations to provide an optimal salary
structure for the state sector devoid of salary anomalies to enable the recruitment of qualified officers from the labour
market and retain them.
1. S. Ranugge Esqr.
2. K. L. L. Wijeratne Esqr.
3. T. P . Collure Esqr.
4. C. P. Siriwardene Esqr.
5. Madam Sudharma Karunaratne
6. Janaka Sugathadasa Esqr.
7. Madam Dharani S. Wijethilake
8. Lalith R de Silva Esqr.
9. G . S. Edirisinghe Esqr.
10. A. R. Deshapriya Esqr.
11. Madam B. P. P . S. Abeygunarathne
12. Dr Palitha Abeykoon Esqr.
13. P. Thangamayil Esqr.
14. S. D. Jayakody Esqr.
15. M. C. Wickramasekara Esqr.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
 Seal
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- G 27787  — 32 (08/2018)
N.B.—Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 2084/1 ends with No. 2084/66.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 20.08.2018
2A
Greetings :
Although the Salaries and Cadre Commission was established to advise and assist the government in the formulation and
implementation of a national salary policy to facilitate the fulfillment of manpower requirements public sector as well as
the private sector following the conduct of a cadre study and a review of the salaries, wages and other emolument structures
of the entire public service with the object of improving the efficiency and productivity of public service to fulfill the
aspirations of the people within good governance, the government intends to obtain further recommendations on urgent
remedial action that can be taken after analysing factors that have led to unrest owing to inequalities, anomalies and conflicts
that exist in salary structures in state sector, especially in services such as railway, postal and health where a large number of
trade unions operate, as well as the All Island Services.
Accordingly, considering the fact that the Salaries and Cadre Commission has issued Management Services Circular
No. 02/2016 having studied and reviewed the salary structure of the state sector and amending salaries of cadres in State
Corporations, Statutory Boards and Government owned companies ; Management Services Circular No. 03/2016 amending
the salaries of members of Armed Forces ; Management Services Circular No. 04/2016 amending the salaries of the staff
of the University Grants Commission and academic and non-academic staff of Universities ; Management Services Circulars
No. 05/2016, 03/2017, 01/2018, 02/2018 amending the salaries of Judicial Service Officers ; and Management Services
Circular No. 06/2016 amending the salaries of Parliamentary staff.
Considering further the situation of unrest owing to trade union action demanding increases in salaries and allowances
in proportion to salary increases made from time to time for various services, and concurrently, the adverse impact on the
efficiency of results in public service provision, and the economic cost incurred by the government.
Considering further that a large disparity has been created between the take home salaries of staff in Corporations,
Statutory Boards, Government owned companies and Government Banks on the one hand, and the salaries and all emoluments
of staff of Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Government Banks, Sri Lanka Ports Authority, Ceylon Electricity Board, National
Water Supply and Drainage Board, large scale Government business such as Ceylon Petroleum Corporation which are
increased by 20% - 25% every three years on the basis of collective agreements on the other hand.
Further considering that various demands are being made by other staff of the public sector to increase their
emoluments in view of the high emoluments drawn by the staffs of insitutions operating on collective agreements.
Further considering that attention should focus on the income earned, profit and the contribution made to the state
revenue by public enterprises when deciding on salaries and allowances for the staff of the said institutions.
Further considering that remedies should be provided, after study, if any detriment has been caused to services
such as Railway service, Postal service and Health Services which has large employee categories, when by Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006, 127 salary scales which existed at that time were reduced to 36 salary scales under 4
classifications, namely senior, tertiary, secondary and primary grades with the intention of updating and simplifying post
and grades.
And further considering that in view of all above situations there is a risk of adverse impacts on the community life
and the overoll development process resulting from breakdown of industrial peace and strike action owing to increase in
service problems in the whole public service if appropriate and urgent solutions are not provided after revising the salaries
and allowances of the entire public service.
And the Government is desirious of establishing a Special Commission on reviewing the salaries of the Public
Sector (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for the purpose of ;
(a) Studying the impact on the provision of proposed salary scales to the Sri Lanka Railway Supervisory
Management Service focussing on the existing salary circulars in relation to the salaries and allowances of
the Public Service, and recommending methodologies to resolve any emerging issues.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 20.08.2018
3A
(b) Recommending solutions to minimize salary anomalies if any, caused by the existing salary circulars for
railway, health, higher education and education and postal service sectors that have made recent demands to
increase salaries and allowances.
(c) Making recommendations to minimize the salary anomalies that have been identified in relation to existing
salary problems in All Island Service as well as salary increases already effected.
(d) Making recommendations for a salaries and wages structure that will guide to minimize the anomalies in
salaries and wages drawn by persons bearing similar responsibilities or similary qualification or professionals
in government and semi-government institutions.
AND WHEREAS I am of the views that the execution of the duties and responsibilities the said Commission is entrusted
with, as identified above, should commence immediately in the interest of public welfare.
Now, therefore, I, Maithripala Sirisena, President, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 33(2) of the Constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby establish the Special Commission for Reviewing of Salaries
of the Public Sector to undertake and execute the said duties and responsibilities for a two (02) months period commencing
August 20, 2018.
And reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity do by these presents, appoint you, the
said.
1. S. Ranugge Esqr.
2. K. L. L. Wijeratne Esqr.
3. T. P . Collure Esqr.
4. C. P. Siriwardene Esqr.
5. Madam Sudharma Karunaratne
6. Janaka Sugathadasa Esqr.
7. Madam Dharani S. Wijethilake
8. Lalith R de Silva Esqr.
9. G . S. Edirisinghe Esqr.
10. A. R. Deshapriya Esqr.
11. Madam B. P. P . S. Abeygunarathne
12. Dr Palitha Abeykoon Esqr.
13. P. Thangamayil Esqr.
14. S. D. Jayakody Esqr.
15. M. C. Wickramasekara Esqr.
as members of the Special Commission for Reviewing of Salaries of the Public Sector and direct you to take all
such steps as may be deemed necessary to proceed with the implementation of the tasks set out from (a) to (d) above.
And I, further appoint S. Ranugge Esqr. as the Chairman of the Commission and H. G . Sumanasinghe Esqr. as the
Secretary to the Commission.
And I, do hereby authorize the Commission to issue instructions, to make inquiries and investigate matters as may
be necessary in relation to the execution of the tasks the said Commission is hereby entrusted with.
And I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Commission may issue
instructions or apply for assistance for information, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and furnish
all such information as may properly, be complied with, rendered and furnished, in that behalf.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 20.08.2018
4A
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 20th day of August, in the year
Two Thousand and Eighteen.
                                                                                            By  Order of His Excellency,
UDAYA R. S ENEVIRA THNE,
Secretary to the President.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.