

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
697
wxl 1"960 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'03'24
No. 1,960 – THURSDAY ,  MARCH 24,  2016
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 698
By-Laws ... 699
697
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th April, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st April,
2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
W. A. A. G. F
ONSEKA,
 Government Printer ( Acting ).
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
698
Local Government Notifications
URBAN    COUNCIL   KULIYAPITIYA
Local Government Institute (Standard By-law) Act,
No. 06 of 1952
BY virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section
27 (Chapter 255) of Urban Council Ordinance to be read with the
provisions of Section 3 of Local Government Institutes (Standard
By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952, I, Yayinna Wijesundarage Soma
Kumudini the Secretary to the Urban Council Kuliyapitiya, do hereby
notify that I have decided to execute the Urban Councils By-law on
Waste Management within the area of authority of Urban Council
Kuliyapitiya under the Resolution No. 1582 dated 24.02.2016.
Secretary,
Urban Council Kuliyapitiya.
RESOLUTION
I hereby decide that the "Urban Councils By-law on Waste
Management", compiled and published in Part (IV)(a) in Gazette
paper of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1933/40
dated 25.09.2015 by the Minister in-charge of the subject of Local
Government in the North Western Province by virtue of powers
vested in him under Paragraph (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section (2) of
Provincial Council (Incidental Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 to be
read with Sub-section (1) of Section (2) of Local Government
(Standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952, should be executed within
the area of authority of Urban Council Kuliyapitiya in terms of the
aforesaid provisions of Section (3) of Local Government Institutes
(Standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952 and Sub-section (3) of Section
27 (Chapter 255) of Urban Council Ordinance.
03–645
––––––––––––––––
HAMBANTOTA   MUNICIPAL   COUNCIL
Municipal Councils a Standard By-law
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution passed under
proposal No. 07.02 at the general assembly of the Hambantota
Municipal Council held on the 08th June 2015.
E
RAJ RA VINDRA FERNANDO,
The Mayor,
Municipal Council Hambantota.
At the Municipal Council Office,
On the 22nd day of September, 2015.
PROPOSAL
"1989, No. 12 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, 2 of Section (1) of Sub-section (a) Local Authorities Act, No. 06
of 1952, read with paragraph (V ote provisions) Act, 2 of Section (I)
of Sub-section virtue of the powers conferred on the Minister in
charge of the Provincial Council of Local Government subject,
Southern Province Chief Minister and Local Government in charge
of Minister of Gusthinga Wadu Shan Wijayalal De Silva, the draft of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Act, No. 1834 dated
25th October 2013 Extraordinary Gazette published by the Municipal
Council Standard By-laws of the solid waste management By-laws
No. 1 to 29 and interim By-laws of the destruction of mosquitoes
and insects, pathogens No. 1 to 09 by-Hambantota be accepted by
the Municipal Council should and so should be implemented within
the accepted standard by-laws Hambantota Municipal Council that
the Hambantota Municipal Council has proposed doing".
03–584
––––––––––––––––
KURUNEGALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Local Government Authorities Act, No. 06 of 1952
(Tabled By-law)
IT is hereby notified that I Delankage Durga Wickramasinghe as the
Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary with accordance to the powers
entrusted to me from the Section 09(03) of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987, has been taken the decision according to the
Resolution No. 1097 of 24.02.2016 dated to the published by me to
execute the By-laws related to the solid waste management within
the Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
Secretary and Executing
officer of the Duty Functional Powers,
Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha.
RESOLUTION
The decision is taken by me to execute By-laws related to the
solid waste management within the Kurunegala Pradeshiya Sabha
limits which was published in the Special Gazette Notification Part
IV(b) of No. 1933/40 dated 25.09.2015 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka with accordance to the revisions of publications
made under the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (consequent
provisions) which reads with the paragraph (a) of Sub-section I of
Section 3 of No. 06 of 1952 of the Local Government Authorities
(tabled By-law) of authority 261 made by the North Western Province
Hon. Minister for Local Government with accordance to the
provisions of Section 09(03) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
03–722

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
699
By-laws
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL - PUTTALAM  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Provincial Council Act, No. 06 of 1952 (Passed bill of By-laws)
I, Jayasingha Arachchilage Somasiri Jayasingha as the Secretary of Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha according to the given power under Sub-
section 3 of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 should read with Section 3 of Provincial Council Act, No. 06 of 1952
(Passed By-laws).
The By-law of Provincial Councils on Solid Waste Management,
Herein, it is annunced that the above mentioned By-law of Provincial Councils on solid waste management should be implemented
within Puttalam Provincial Council limit which was decided by me and under the A19th decision made on 25.02.2016.
J. A. S
OMASIRI JAY ASINGHA,
Secretary and Implementing Officer of Powers and Affairs,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
DECISION
I made a decision under the given power of Sub-section 3 of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to implement.
The By-law of Provincial Councils on Solid Waste Management, which was published on Part IV(a) of 1933/40 of the Gazette
of the Socialist Repubic of Sri Lanka on 25th September 2015, executed by assigned minister of Provincial Councils of North Wes tern
Province and under the vested power to the assigned minister of Provincial Councils of North Western province under Sub-section  1 of
Section 2 of Act of Provincial Councils Institutions of No. 6 of 1952 (passed By-laws) within Puttalam Provincial Council limit s.
B
Y-LAWS   OF  SOLID   WASTE   MANAGEMENT   FOR   PUTTLAM  PRADESHIY A   SABHA
01. This by-law shall be cited as by-law of  Solid Waste Management of Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. These by-laws shall be  conducted to steer, supervise, investigate  and control to implemented and prepared centers of
dividing, collecting, transporting, storing, and changing of solid wastes which found in public places within Puttlam
Pradeshiya Sabha limit.
03. All the owners and dwellers of Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Premises should keep their residences healthy and pleasant
environment without any waste.
04. Owner or dweller of Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha premises should collect, divide, store and remove their waste.
05. (i) All the owners and dwellers should collect rubbish inside their premises daily or less than such period by sweeping
or any other method.
(ii) According to Statements of the Statute, the owners and dwellers should divide waste in accordance with the
Schedule No. 08 to 20 by sweeping or any other method of this Statute or to do so.
(iii) Owner or the dweller shall prepare suitable bag, cover, large bin or other container to store or remove waste in a
proper quality as mentioned in the chapters of this Schedule.
(iv) Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha shall pertain specific service under time table with prior notice to collect garbage inside
the which Pradeshiya Sabha  notice as timely decisions by the Council according to Chapter 5(1) and owner or the
dweller shall handover collected waste to specific place notices by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time
mentioned in the said Schedule I.
(v) Owner or the dweller shall not collect, store and remove waste to get any harm or damage to health or sanitation of
house members, visitors and neighbours or sanitation of the area.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
700
06. (i) Any person shall not release waste to a street, road, roadway, avenue, lane or other public place or area of drainage,
waste path, reservation, or tank, or bay or water base, or to the sea.
(ii) Any person shall not burn waste harmful way to the open environment within the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha
premises.
(iii) If any owner or dweller want to get a permission to release, treat, prepare or remove any waste according to Section
No. 7 but could not get a permission to do so the person can handover that waste to the authorized waste collector.
(iv) W aste which not prepare, treat or remove according to provisions of the Section 7 and the waste collected by the
authorized person under provisions stated above 6(iii) should remove according to the regulations of the statement
of this by-law.
07. (i) Dweller or owner of any premises shall remove waste within the same premises other than following facts.
(A) Place that removal of such waste is prohibited by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha.
(B) Some waste specifically defined by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Owner or dweller of the premises can burn waste in a burner or oven built according to the approved plan and
standard of the secretary. Or can treat, prepare, bury with the approved manner of the Secretary.
(iii) If any owner or dweller requests “Compost Bin” from the secretary and the owner or the dweller has space to
maintain that bin secretary can provide compost bin to the owner or the dweller charging a share or full amount of
the cost or can provide as a subsidy.
(iv) Owner or the dweller should act to remove “Garden Waste” within the premises according to the provisions of this
by-law. After that rest of the waste considering their status should handover to the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha
waste Collector paying a levy under decisions made by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(v) Any person who cut any tree or part of it nearby the street or roadway should remove it as soon as possible.
Otherwise should get any action to remove it. Or can be handover to the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector
paying a levy under decisions made by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(vi) All people should get any action not to remove any dirt of their animals in any Street, Roadway or Public places.
If someone does so a person has a responsible to clean and remove such waste according to this by-law.
(vii) Any person shall not release or bury any waste from a vehicle to a street, road, roadway, avenue, lane or other
public place or area or drainage, water path, reservation, or tank, or bay or water base, or to the sea.
(viii) Any person who wish to approve a plan to construct or renovate house or any premises shall include his
application about the way of treating and preparing method of removed solid wastes in the premises.
H
OUSING PREMISES
08. (i) All owners and dwellers shall divide their wastes as follows which collected by sweeping or any other method.
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead bodies, parts of the bodies and dung of animals.
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) All owners and dwellers shall keep such divided wastes in separate bags, bins or other container and shall store in
a place where mentioned to keep them until they remove. Food wastes and bio degradable wastes shall keep in
container made with wet proof material with a top cover not to enter rats, insects and animals. Dead bodies, parts

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
701
of bodies or wastes related with dung within the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha  premises shall collect considering the
type of wastes by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha after getting any charge made by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha
time to time.
(iii) All owners and dwellers shall handover specially mentioned wastes in item (a) and (b) in statement 8(i) to
authorized waste collector. Or can remove container which collect these wastes and maintained by the Puttlam
Pradeshiya Sabha .
09. (i) All owners of least premises in Multi Storied building shall divide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dead bodies, parts of the bodies and dung of animals ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping ;
(ii) Owner or dweller of specified building stated in statement 9(1) shall supply containers for described wastes under
said Para (a), (b) and (c) according to specification and standard of this by-law.
(iii) Owner or dweller of the building specified in Schedule 9(i) shall not obey the provisions in Schedule (ii), the
Secretary has a right to order to the owner or the dweller to provide relevant bins or containers to the date informed
by the Secretary. Owner or dweller has a responsibility to act according to orders made by the Secretary.
(iv) Owner or dweller of the ground floor or any floor of a building shall remove their selected wastes to the bins or
containers kept.
(v) Authorised waste collector shall collect the removed wastes categories specially mentioned in item (a), (b) and (c)
of Schedule 9(i) of this by-law. Any wastes which not remove by this way shall remove to a place specially
mentioned for this purpose by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha or shall handover to the wastes collector of the
Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in said Para 9(1)(c) should not mix with item (a), (b)(c) and (e) and such wastes should
remove by the owner, tenant or dweller to the special service provide of the authorised waste collector.
10. (i) It is legal to provide waste bins or containers by the Secretary for the dwellers of slums after getting prior approval
of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha .
(ii) All owners and dwellers of slums shall put their collected wastes to the nearby waste collecting bins or containers
after dividing as follows :-
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes
(c) Harmful wastes
(iii) Secretary should provide approval for waste collector to remove wastes specially mentioned in item (a) and (b) of
the Schedule 10(ii) of this by-law.
S
HOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) All owners or managers of a shop or office shall divide their wastes in each complex as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
702
(c) Harmful wastes
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping
(ii) These divided wastes shall put in separate, bins or other container and shall store in a place where mentioned to
keep them until they remove.
(iii) Owner or manager of the shop or office shall handover wastes mentioned specially in the Schedule (a) and (b) of
11(1) of this by-law to the authorised waste collector.
(iv) Owner or manager of multi storied shops and offices shall divide selected wastes from the shop or office according
to approved standard by the secretary and shall store in a suitable place after putting them in a suitable separate
containers until they remove.
(v) Any owner of a shop or office specially mentioned in the Schedule (iv) of statement 11 in this by-law shall put the
selected wastes to separate bins or containers. All the owners and managers have a responsibility to handover
wastes specially mentioned in Schedule 1(a) and (b) of this by-law to the authorised wastes collector.
(vi) W aste categories mentioned in item (e) of Schedule 11(1) of this by-law which are not collected by the authorised
waste collector, it is legal to handover wastes to the collector working under Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha for paying
a fee decided by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(vii) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above item (a), (b), (e) in any way and the owners
or manages of shops and office should remove such wastes to the collector who has an approval for providing such
special service.
(viii) Owner or manager of a shop or office have a responsibility to maintain waste bins and containers specially ordered
by this by-law and shall remove wastes without any problem to health and sanitation of the neighbours or workers
of said shop or offices.
H
OTELS
12 (i) All hotel owners or person who has written authority of it shall divide their collected wastes as follows. Otherwise
shall get any action to do so.
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) All hotel owners or person who has written authority of it shall divide these wastes and put in a separate, bins or
other container and shall store in a place where mentioned to keep them until remove these wastes.
(iii) All hotel owners or person who has written authority of it shall divide and keep such food wastes and bio
degradable wastes in a bin or container with plastic or steel lid not to enter fliers rats, insects and any other animal.
(iv) W astes mentioned specially in the Schedule (a) and (b) of 12(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorized waste
collector.
(v) Waste categories mentioned in item (a) and (b) which are not received by the Schedule 12(iv) of this by-law shall
put them in a specified separate containers or store in a suitable place where mentioned by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above items (a), (b), (e) in any way and the hotel
owners or managers of shops and office should remove such wastes to the collector who has an approval for
providing such special service.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
703
VEGETABLE AND  FRUIT STALLS
13. (i) All owners or person in charge of vegetable and fruit stalls shall divide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Vegetable and fruit which are not suitable for human consumption or other degradable wastes.
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes.
(ii) W astes mentioned in item (a) of this Schedule 13(i) shall keep in a container made with plastic or steel material with
a top cover not to enter rats, insects and animals. Other wastes shall put in a suitable bin or container.
(iii) W astes mentioned  in item (a) and (b) of 13(i) of this By-law shall provide to the authorized waste collector by the
Sabha.
(iv) It is legal to remove waste categories mentioned in item (a) and (b) which are not received by the Schedule 13(iii)
of this By-law after putting them in a specified separate containers or store in a suitable place where mentioned.
MEAT, FISH OR EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal other than described in the permit issued in written by the Chairman for this
purpose mentioned in the Slaughter Act.
(ii) Owner or businessman of meat, fish, or egg stall shall divide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Dead bodies of animals, parts of them, eggs or other degradable wastes not suitable for human consumption.
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes.
(iii) All collected wastes shall put into a separate bin or container. Specially mentioned wastes in item (a) of the
Schedule 14(ii) of this By-law keep in a container made with wet proof material with a top cover not to enter rats,
insects and animals.
(iv) Specially mentioned wastes in item (a) and (b) in statement ii of this by-law shall provide to authorized waste
collector, Or shall remove waste categories mentioned in item (a) and (b) which are not provided to the waste
collector shall provide for the waste collector maintained by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha or shall keep any place
where specified for this purpose.
(v) It is legal to remove waste categories mentioned in item (a) and (b) which are not received by the Schedule 14(vi)
of this By-law after putting them in a specified separate containers or store in a suitable place where mentioned.
M
OBILE/PEDASTAL SALES
15. (i) All mobile or pedestal salesman who run any business which create waste shall prepare bin or container to put
these wastes according to specifications and provisions made by this by-law. Any waste shall not put to pedestal
area, road or drainage or public place.
(ii) All mobile or pedestal sales person shall not put any bin or container blocking the transport paths of vehicles and
pedestrians.
(iii) All mobile or pedestal sales person shall divide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes
(c) Harmful wastes
(iv) Selected wastes shall put to a separate bin or container. Wastes mentioned in item (a) of Schedule 15(iii) of this By-
law shall put into a secured container not to enter flies rats, insects and any other animal and other than occasions
putting any dust this shall close with a lid.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
704
(v) Wastes mentioned specially in the Schedule (a) and (b) of 15(iii) of this by-law shall provide to the authorized
waste collector.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above items (a), (b) in any way and the mobile or
pedestal sales persons shall remove such wastes to the collector who has an approval for providing such special
service.
(vii) W aste categories mentioned in item (a) and (b) which are not received by the Schedule (v) of this by-law shall put
them in a specified separate containers or store in a suitable place where mentioned. Before handover waste bins to
the Urban waste collector all mobile/pedestal seller shall pay a fee decided by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha  time
to time.
I
NDUSTRIES
16. (i) All owners of an industry or producers shall divide the collected wastes as follows :–
(a) Bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) W astes mentioned in item (a), (b) and (c) of the Schedule 16(1) of this by-law shall provide collected wastes to a
waste collector of the Pradeshiya Sabha  under payment decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iii) Harmful wastes shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environment Conservation License issued
for the business under Provincial Environmental Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of 1990 in the North
Western Province.
(iv) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) of the Schedule 16(1) of this by-law should not mix with above items
(a), (b), (e) in any way and the owners of the industries shall provide such wastes to the collector who has an
approval for providing such special service.
E
XCA V ATING, CONSTRUCTING AND BREAKING
17. (i) Any person who excavate any street, road or public place or build anything or break something shall store wastes
generated by this task within the premises or any place mentioned by the Secretary if they remove from the
premises.
(ii) W astes mentioned in Schedule (i) of this by-law shall handover to the waste collector of Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha
Limit paying any fee which determine by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
H
OSPITALS
18. (i) All the owners or proprietor of Hospitals shall provide their collected wastes as follows :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Clinical wastes ;
(d) Harmful wastes ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Collected wastes under item (a), (b) in Schedule I shall store in each container in a suitable place until they remove
and shall handover to the waste collector specified by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha. Wastes mentioned in the
Schedule (e) of 19(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorised waster collector under payment decided by the
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
705
(iii) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (c), (d) shall not mix with any other wastes in any way and  these wastes
shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environmental Conservation License issued for the business
under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of 1990.
P
RIV ATE  HOSPITALS AND LABORATORIES
19. (i) All the owners or proprietors of Private Hospitals and Laboratories shall decide their collected wastes as follows :–
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling wastes ;
(c) Clinical wastes ;
(d) Harmful wastes ;
(e) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Collected wastes under item (a), (b) in Schedule I shall store in each container in a suitable place until they remove
and shall handover to the waste collector specified by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha. Wastes mentioned in the
Schedule (e) of 19(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorised waste collector under payment decided by the
Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iii) Wastes men tioned in the Schedule (e) of 19(i) of this by-law shall provide to the authorised waste collector under
payment decided by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
(iv) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (c), (d) shall not mix with any other wastes in any way and  these wastes
shall remove according to conditions mentioned in the Environmental Conservation License issued for the business
under Provincial Environment Enactment of North Western Province No. 12 of 1990.
O
THER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person doing a business not mentioned specially in the statements 8 to 18 or any person who implemented or
organize common religious, social, cultural or educational activity with participation of general public shall divide
these wastes generate due to implement such organization or activity as mentioned below :
(a) Food wastes and other bio degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recycling waste ;
(c) Harmful wastes ;
(d) Dust and other dry wastes collected by sweeping.
(ii) Any person who organize any activity specially mentioned in Schedule 20(i) shall inform Puttlam Pradeshiya
Sabha early about it to prepare special program to collect wastes generate by such activities.
(iii) Selected divided wastes shall store in a suitable place after putting them separate containers until they remove.
(iv) It is legal to provide collected wastes mentioned in item (a), (b) and (c) of the Schedule 20 (i) of this by-law to a
waste collector of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha under payment decided by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha time
to time.
(v) But a fee decided by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha mentioned in Schedule iv is not relevant for waste collections
in any activity implemented without a view to commercial purpose in any religious place according to removal of
collected wastes under item (a), (b) and (c) in Schedule I which collected by such activities.
(vi) Harmful wastes mentioned in above item (e) should not mix with above items (a), (b) and (c) in any way and shall
provide such wastes to the waste collector who has an approval for providing such special service.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
706
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) Chairman shall activate to plan, control, and administrate following activities decided accordingly by the Puttalam
Pradeshiya Sabha .
(a) In ceremonies, special occasions and occasions prepared by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha mobile wastes
bins should provide to use in public areas according to request of the organizers of such ceremonies and
special occasions or timely decision made by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha for such occasions.
(b) Maintain public waste bins or containers in a proper sanitary condition where bins kept after identifying
these places as temporary stores and shall remove such wastes from the places without any harm to the
dwellers reside nearby.
(c) Investigate any petitions regarding activities specially mentioned in prior statements and get an immediate
actions about them.
D
UTIES OF PUTTLAM PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) Secretary shall plan, supervise, control and administrate following activities after discussing with the chairman and
under approval of the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha.
(a) Encourage public to reduce, reuse and recycle wastes.
(b) Implement awareness programs about select and divide, collect, store, remove and discard wastes or publish
them through medias.
(c) Facilitate persons and small entrepreneurs who are engaged in reuse and recycle activities.
(d) Rewarding persons who are engaged in reduce, reuse and recycle activities.
(e) Regulate different forms about removal of wastes.
(f) Prepare time table mentioning the Date, Time, Method and Fees of collecting wastes determine by the council
for each wastes in each Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha area and indicates conditions of collecting wastes in Public
Holidays.
(g) Collect separated wastes on time according to Time Table which are not provided separately for authorised
waste collector.
(h) Transport dangerous wastes and any other wastes hygienic way which are not provided for authorized waste
collector.
(i) Other than dangerous wastes or any other wastes ordered by the Secretary wastes collected by sweeping
streets, cleaning drainages and cleaning public places, wastes collected from public bins and wastes collected
by Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Workers shall handover to the authorized waste collector or shall remove
formal way by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha.
(j) Take actions to handover Foods and other Bio Degradable Reusable wastes to authorized waste collector or
activate to remove them formally which prepare or treat totally or partly in a practical manner and handover
rejected wastes from such activities as approved by the Secretary within Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit.
(k) Regulating all activities relating removal of dangerous wastes with Environmental Authority of the North
Western Province.
(l) Implement activities of receiving Permit or Environmental Security Permit according to provisions of North
Western Provincial Environmental Enactment No. 12 of 1990 and burning wastes according to the conditions
of that Permit or Environmental Security Permit or preserve sanitary ground filling or implement other formal
alterrations.
(m) Provide cleaning materials, suitable cloths, gloves, mouth covers and boots for all workers who are engaging
in the activities of sweeping, collecting, selecting and dividing, transporting, changing and removing of waste

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
707
and implement health security system for such workers and prepare Health Clinics for them more than twice
per year.
(n) Implement Internal Waste Management Plan for Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha Premises.
(o) Prepare and Implement Solid Waste Management Implement Plan which cover up each year indicating
information and covers 03 years period mentioning final removal according to North Western Provincial
Environmental Enactment No. 12 of 1990 and the National Strategies of Solid Waste Management of 2000
and relevant law. Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha shall approve it annually under continuous basis according to
time duration of the Plan.
(p) Investigate and take immediate action about petitions regarding activities in items (a) to (o) and if it mentions
any harassment investigate it within Three days and other petitions within Fourteen days.
P
ERMIT
23. (i) Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha shall provide a Permit for following activities mention below if any person or persons
manufacture any product reusing, recycling wastes or make compost or Bio Gas.
(a) Implementing any business within Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit or other Local Council Limit which
approved by this by-law of Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha .
(b) Own an Environmental Secure Permit issued according to the provisions of North Western Provincial
Environmental Enactment No. 12 of 1990.
(c) Implement waste collecting centre constructed according to approved standard by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha for collected wastes.
(d) Have vehicles to transport collected wastes according to approval of the Secretary and sanitary method
without done any harm to the public.
(e) If the relevant business is in the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit they shall agree to pay a fee to Puttalam
Pradeshiya Sabha as determined by the Urban Council to collect wastes which created rejected, remaining
wastes and by products  and other wastes of preparing or treatment activities of waste.
(ii) If the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha reject to provide any Permit or Cancel any Permit the Sabha shall inform to the
applicant the reason to reject or cancel the permit within 30 days of receiving the application if the applicant
requested to do so.
(iii) Secretary shall mention in the Permit the validity period of the waste collecting activities, waste categories and
waste collecting area and other suitable conditions.
(iv) If any person shall not do these activities according to provisions of the Schedule 23(1) of this by-law permit
issued under conditions of this by-law shall be cancelled.
(v) In any occasion cancelling the permit according to provisions of the Schedule 23(iv), any person shall not collect
or receive wastes. In such event the Secretary shall use media or sufficient method to aware public about the
cancellation.
W
ASTE REMOVING AREAS
24. Any unauthorized person shall not enter waste removing areas of Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha and shall not bury, remove
any equipment or thing in the premises. Any person shall not bury any prohibited waste until the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha provides an approval to do so under condtions made by the Sabha.
25. Any person shall not use any land within Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit to put any wastes created outside the area
without an approval and conditions of the Secretary and the Environmental Authority of the North Western Province.
26. All waste collecting lands shall covered by the wall or suitable thing to mark its boundaries and the places shall implement
proper conditions not to throw wastes nearby lands due to wind, water or any other thing.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
708
OTHER
27. (i) A power shall vested to the Chairman or any person who has a written authority given by the Chairman to enter
any premises and inspect the owner or the dweller whether implement their activities according to the provisions
of this By-law.
(ii) Owner, dweller, tenant, manager or residence of any premises shall provide required information to any authorized
officer if they request to  do so.
(iii) Any person shall not pay any obstacle to use powers vested in a Chairman or any authorized officer to do their
duties according to provisions of this By-law.
P
UNISHMENTS
28. Any person who violate the statements mentioned in this By-law is considered  as a punishable offence according to
statement No. 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act. No. 15 of 1987 and be penalised after court order.
INTERPRETA TION
29. In this By-law in the event of context otherwise requires.
1. “Waste or solid waste” means no any consumer value of the waste for removed person of any maternal, wastes,
dust, sweeping wants of street, soil, mud and ash.
2. “Food wastes”  mean food items cannot use for human consumption.
3. “Harmful wastes” mean wastes that can be harmful for public health or environment or poisionous, burning,
disease, radioactive wastes.
4. “Collect” mean collected wastes for recycling, preparing, or treatment activities which have any authority to do so
or waste collector in Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit.
5. “Chairman” means, chairman appointed for Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha .
6. “Compost” means, final output received from the micro digesting of Carbonic wastes, It is a Humans material
which can be active as soil protector.
7. “Secretary ” means regarding Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha, Secretary of the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha established for
Pradeshiya Sabha under Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Act and can be considered as any authorized officer appointed
for act as a secretary under Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
8. “Store” means, storing or keeping wastes in an approved public collecting places or any place in a premises of the
owner or the dweller.
9. “Fee” means, any fee decided by the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha time to time.
10. “Garden Wastes” mean parts of trees or plants, stones, soil which remove from the garden.
11. “Bio Degradable Wastes” mean waste can be degraded by micro organism.
12. “Common Place” mean any place like road, ground, common land, road reservation, palyground, common building,
cemetery, bus stand, railway station, river, cannal, lake, tank, pond, pool, bay, water way, sea, seashore, or a place
used as public use or any other such place.
13. “Recycling Wastes“ mean wastes which can used as new consumer after changing its normal way and cannot be
identified as wastes.
14. “Reusable Wastes” means, wastes which can reuse after removing germs and cleaning by washing or other method.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.03.2016
709
15. “Transport” means, carrying out collected wastes from one place to another place using human, animal, or
mechanical way prepare, treat or remove them.
16. “Bin/pot or other container” mean, any bin, pot, bag or other container with a lid to use store, remove, collect or
transport according to requirements stated in this by-law
17. “Authorised Waste Collector” means, any person who collect or get wastes with a permit issued by the Secretary.
18. “Authorised Officer” means, any person who has a right to perform duties according to by-law under permission
of the Mayor or any person who gives his authority in written.
19. “Remove” means, all wastes which are not reuse, not recycles, not prepared or not treated and bury outside or
underground in any land selected for put them permanently.
20. “Changing Place” means, a place reserved for this task and this place shall used for change wastes from small
vehicles to large vehicles to provide any facility to recycle, prepare, treat or remove wastes in an efficiently way.
21. “Person” means, Statutory or Non Statutory Company or Committee of a person, or Team or any Person.
22. “Waste Collector of the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit” means, any person who has sign a contract to collect,
sweep, receive, remove wastes with the Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha from any Bin or Containers.
23. “Separate” means, separating any wastes as mentioned in the waste categories under this by-law.
24. “Prepare” means, process which transform waste to useful outcome.
25. “Council” means, Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha which established made provisions under Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha
Statute No. 15 of 1997 of Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. “Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha Limit” means, area which established under No. 15 of 1987 Puttlam Pradeshiya Sabha
Act.
27. “Sanitary Ground Filling” means, putting wastes finally to a land according to accepted standard of Sri Lanka to
minimize Social, Health and Environmental effects.
28. “Owner or Dweller” means, owner of the premises or authorized person who has an attorney power of the
Industry, Factory, Estate, or manager of them or representative or caretaker or tenant or manager who act under
orders of other person.
29. “All person who engaged in Excavating, Constructing and Breaking activities mentioned in this statement includes
any person who are engaging in such activities as service provider for the Sabha.
30. “Construction Wastes” means, soil, mud, dust which generate construction of building or wastes which generate
breaking of buildings.
31. If there is any discrepancy of terms of in this statement, “Hospital” means, a place where accept, care and treat ill
or diseased human or animal (described in any way) it included Care Center, Clinic, Medical Centre, Maternity
Home and Animal Hospital or Animal Clinic.
32. “Harmful Secured Wastes” means, clinical waste, body parts, cauls, infectious and highly infectious wastes and
sharp bones.
33. “Office” means, the meaning described in the authority 129 of Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954.
34. “Shop” means, a place where running a Whole Sale and Retail Business, a place where kept in Goods, Food Outlets,
Saloon or Makeup Saloon.
30. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this by-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
03–585
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.