

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 96
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"075- 2018 cqks ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'06'08                                                                               
No. 2,075 - FRIDAy ,  JUNE 08,  2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  29th  June,  2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th  June, 2018.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
95 - B 81288-353 (2018/06)
N. B.-   The List of Jurors in Polonnaruwa   District Jurisdiction Areas in year 2018 has been Published  in Part VI of this  
  Gazette  in  Sinhala, Tamil Languages.
Note .-    Nation  Building Tax  (Amendment) Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of May 25, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'08
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 08.06.2018
96
miscellaneous Lands notices
Ref  No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/29002.
Ref. No. of Provincial  Land  Commissioner:m<d;a$b' 
fld'$06$fld$286'
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe   
LAnD  ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It is hereby notified that Mr. Hewa  Juwan Kankanamge 
Mithrapala Wijerama  has  requested a state land   allotment    
in   extent of   0.0372   Hectare   depicted  as Lot No. 33 in the 
plan No. P. P. Co 7418 and situated in the Village of Kottawa 
of No.  496 Kottawa South  Grama Niladhari Division which  
belongs to Maharagama Divisional Secretary's division  in 
the   District of Colombo  on lease  for  residential purposes. 
02. the boundaries  of the  land requested are  given 
below :-
 
On the North by : Lot No. 11 and Lot No. 12  ;
On the East by : Lot No. 12 and Lot No. 35 ;
On the  South by :  Road  bearing the Lot  No. 35  ;
On the West by :  Lot No. 35 and Lot No. 11.   
03. The  requested land  can be granted lease for the  
necessary purpose. therefore, the  Government has intended 
to lease out the land  subject to other  Government approved 
conditions and the  following  conditions : 
 
 (a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years (15.06.1995 
to 14.06.2025);
   Annual Rent  of the Lease.– 4% of the   undeveloped 
value  of the   land  in the year  1995  as per  the  
valuation of the Chief Valuer ;
  Fine .- Three times  of the  4% of the developed value 
of the land ;
 (b) the  lessees  must, within  a period  of one year from the 
date of commencement of the lease,  develop the said 
land  to the satisfaction of the   Divisional Secretary;
 
(c) the lessees must not use the  said land for any purpose 
what so ever other  than  a  residential purpose   ;
 (d) the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions imposed by the Divisional Secretary and   
other  Institutes;
 (e) Existing  buildings must be maintained in a proper state 
of repair ;
 (f) If the  lessee fails  to substantiate the  purpose for which 
the land was  obtained within the specified  period  of 
time,  steps will be taken to cancel the  agreement of 
lease ;
 (g)  No. permission will be granted until expiry of minimum 
05 years from the date of  06.04.2018 for any sub 
leasing  ;
 (h) Payment of the lease  rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse;
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of herein Gazette publication to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be 
leased out as requested. 
  
S. a. Kalani M. DhanaSeKara,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,   Land Secretariat,"Mihikatha Medura",  
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
08th June, 2018.
06-381 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.