

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
645
645
wxl 1"553 _ 2008 cqks 06 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'06'06
No. 1,553– FRIDAY , JUNE 06, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 648
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 648
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th June, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 30th May, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part III of the Gazette No. 1,552 of 30.05.2008 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
646
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
647
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
:

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
648
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  SCIENCE  AND  TECHNOLOGY  POST
OF  THE  DIRECTOR (ALTERNATIVE ENERGY UNIT)
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of the Director
(Alternative Energy Unit) of the Ministry of Science and Technology
under contract basis for the period of 3 years from the qualified
persons in the age group of 35-45 years with good health condition.
This age limit will not be applicable for the officers presently
employed in the Government Service. Duly filled applications
should be forwarded under registered post to the address “Secretary,
Ministry of Science and Technology, No.408, Galle Road, Colombo
03. on or before 20.06.2008 Applcations  from employees in the
Government Departments, Corporations should be channeled
through their Heads of Institutions. The post “Recruitment -
Director -  (Alternative Energy Unit)” should be indicated on the
top left hand corner of the envelop. The Ministry will not be
responsible for the applications lost in the post or received late
applications.
1. The Duty list relevant to the post:
(i) To administrate the common administrative tasks of the
Alternative Energy Unit of the Ministry,
(ii) To maintain the co-ordination with other scientific
institutions which comes under purview of the Ministry,
in the research activities on Alternative Energy Resources,
(iii) To or ganize the relevant research projects on Alternative
Energy Resources of the following sectors,
(a) Micro hydro sources
(b) Wind
(c) Solar energy
(d) Bio mass
(e) Energy from sea waves
to find out the local and foreign investment, to guide, instruct and
proceed the relevant activities of the projects on behalf of the
Ministry.
(iv) To maintain the co-ordination with the Department of
National Planning and Department of Foreign Resources
under the instruction of U. N. D. P. and E. E. C. in order
to obtain the investments,
(v) To pay more attention to disseminate the knowledge on
laternative energy resources in private and public sector,
especially on wood fuels, through the organization of
seminars, lectures and workshops.
2. Educational qualifications:
(i) Should possess Electrical/Mechanical degrees obtained
from  recognized University,
(ii) Should have charted membership or fellow membership
of th Institute of Sri Lanka Engineering or other recognized
Engineering Institute;
and
(iii) Should possess a post graduate degree
3. Professional and other qualifications:
(A) Completion of  10 years of service with minimum 3
years of experience in medium or high level managerial
capacity,
(B) Priority will be given for the post graduation or
professional proficiency in the field of Energy.
4.  Salary Scale .—  Rs.  22,935 - 645 x 10 - 790 x 8 - 1050 x 17-
                    Rs.  53,555
(Public Administration circular 6/2006 - S-L-2006)
5. Scheme of Recrutment.— Recruitment will be made from the
applicants qualified in Engineering service or other service mentioned
above by the Public Service Commission on the result of a Structural
interview.
A. N. R. A
MARA THUNGA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Science and Technology,
(as the order given by the Public Service Commission).
Ministry of Science and Technology,
408, Galle Road,
Colombo 03.
21st May, 2008.
06-24
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
DEVELOPMENT  ASSISTANTS  AND
PLANNING/FINANCIAL  ASSISTANTS  IN  THE
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION - 2007 (2008)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency bar Examination will be held
by the Department of Examinations in September, 2008 in
accordance with the Schemes of Recruitment relating to the officers
belonging to the above Posts.
02. (I) This examination will be held by the Commissioner General
of Examinations of the Department of Examinations and
the candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations
stipulated by him relating to the examinations conducted.
(II) Rules and regulations stipulated for the candidates are
separately printed in this Gazette. In the event of any
candidate violating these rules and Regulations he/she will
be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
649
03. Applications.— Application should be in conformity with
the specimen form appended to the notification. It should be
prepared by using a A4 size paper with items 1 to 3 appearing in
the first page and other items in the second page. Although the
applicant Duly completed applications should be sent under
registered post through their Zonal Director of Education/Head of
Department addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatte Battaramulla to be received before 30th, June 2008. Name
of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope in forwarding the application. A certified copy of the
letter of appointment should be annexed to the application.
Applications with incomplete information and those received after
the closing date will be rejected. It is advisable to keep a photo
copy of the application with the candidate.
04. Candidates’ Identity. — Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor relating to every subject
they appear in the examination hall. Any one of the following
documents will be accepted for thispurpose.
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Persons;
(2) A valid Passport.
Regarding the candidature of candidate who fails to produce a
document indicated above the Commissioner General of
Examinations will make a final decision.
05.  Admission Card and a copy of the Time Table will be issued
by the Commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates
whose applications have been accepted. Candidates appearing for
the examination should submit their admission card with their
signature duly attested, to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall.
Permission will not be granted to sit the examination without
producing the admission card. If any candidates does not receive
his admission card at least 7 days before the date of the examination
should without delay inform to that effect along with the following
information to the:
Commissioner General of Examinations
Department of Examinations
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch
Pelawatta, Battaramulla
(Telegraphic address Exams, Battaramulla)
(1)  Name of Examination
(2) Candidate’s name in full
(3) Address in full
(4) Post Office and registration number and date of posting
the application.
06. Duty Leave should be granted by the Heads of Departments
to the officers who have received their admission cards issued by
the Commissioner General of Examinations to enable them to sit
the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid for this purpose.
07. Candidates should answer the question paper in the language
medium they received education or in the official language.
Permission will not be granted later to change the language medium
applied by the candidates. This examination will be held in only in
Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums.
08. This examination will be held only in Colombo.
09. Examination procedure.—  Examination relating to the above
Posts will consist of the following subjects.
In this examination candidates should answer one question paper
consisting of the following subjects.
(I) General Administration and Office Management :
Provisions in Establishment Code and Office Management
Chapters I, II, V , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIV , XV , XVI, XXIV , XXV ,
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX and XXXII are applicable.
Financial Regulations and Accounting;
(a) Government Financial Regulations Part I (Except
Chapter X)
Candidates should obtain a minimum of 40% marks for a pass.
10. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
candidates a notification to that effect will be published in the news
papers by the Commissioner General of Examinations. If the
admission card is not received by a candidate even after the lapse of
2 or 3 days of the publication of this notification candidates should
notify the Department of Examinations as indicated in the
notification. It will be more fruitful to notify the Department of
Examinations along with the photo copy of the application retained
by the candidate, Postal registration receipt and a fax number for
dispatch of admission card when it is out side Colombo.
11. Regarding any matter for which no provision has been made
by this notification, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry
of Educaiton shall be the final decision.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Educaiton,
‘Isurupaya’,
Battaramulla,
30th May, 2008.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
650
Specimen Application Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANTS AND
PLANNING/FINANCIAL ASSISTANTS IN THE MINISTRY
OF EDUCATION - 2007 (2008)
Index No.:
(For Office Use)
“Language Medium appearing for the examination”
Please write relevant letter within the cage
(Sinhala -2, Tamil-3, English-4)
01. Name with initials at the end.:————.
(In English Block letters) ex.:  SUNIL, J. M. I.
1.1  Names denoted by initials :————.
(In English Block letters)
1.2 Name in Full :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No.:
02. Place of work and address:
2.1 Name of School/College of Education/Teachers’ College/
Office :————.
Official address :————.
(In English Block letters)
03. Post held at present:————.
3.1 Reference number of letter of appointment:————.
3.2 Date of appointment :————.
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and
correct and I am entitled to sit this examination in the medium as
indicated above and I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations
to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating
to the conducting of this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date:————.
Note.– Candidate should sign in the presence of his Head of
Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the Head
of Department.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………… who is an officer in my
Office/School/College of Educaiton/Teachers’ College and who is
known to me personally placed his/her signature in my presence.
————,
Signature of Certifying Officer and Official Frank.
(Principal/President College of Education/Principal Teachers’
College/Staff Officer)
Name: ——————.
Designation :———————.
Address :———————.
Date :————.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT:
I certify;
1. that the information furnished by the candidate were
verified; and
2. that this candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature of Certifying Officer and Official Frank
Zonal Director of Education/President College of Education.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
06-30
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE  INTO  CLASS II  OF  THE  SERVICE – 2008
IT is hereby notified that a qualifying examination for promotion
of officers in Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Service
into Class II of the Service will be held in all three languages i. e.
Sinhala, Tamil and English in the month of September, 2008 by the
Commissioner  General of Examinations.
2. This examination for the promotion of officers in Class III of
the Public Management Assistants’ Service into Class II of the
Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna,
Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The list of
towns with their respective town numbers is given below :
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullativu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
651
If any centre mentioned above does not have a sufficient number
of candidates, that centre will be cancelled and those candidates
will be assigned to the next nearest centre.
3. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates will be bound
by the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the gazette notification. Candidates
will be subject to any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of
the rules and regulations.
4. Eligibility.– Officers in Class III of the Service, who have been
confirmed in their posts before 07th July, 2008 and who have
completed an active and a satisfactory service period of 04 years
are eligible to appear for this examination.
Note.– The date of qualifying for promotion to Class II of the
Service of an officer will be the date the officer passed the examination
or the date in which he/she complete 05 years of active and
satisfactory service, whichever occurs later.
5. Scheme of Examination.– The subjects of the examination and
the marks assigned to each subject are given below. Marks will be
deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates
whose handwriting is illegible are liable to be disqualified.
Subject Marks Duration
(i) Establishment Procedure 100 02 hours
(ii) F inancial Systems 100 02 hours
(iii) General Paper 100 01 hour
Establishments Procedure.– The objective of this question paper
is to test the proficiency of experience obtained in office activities
and to test the knowledge on office systems adopted in Government
offices to cover subject fields such as principles of office procedures,
importance of office procedures, written communication, filing
methods and preparation of forms etc.. This paper will consist of a
section to test the knowledge of candidate on matters indicated in
V olume 01 of the Establishments Code. The paper will consist of
two parts ;
Part I - 25 Questions of multiple choice – 30 minutes
(25 marks);
Part II - Candidates are required to answer 03 questions
out of 04 semi structured questions. – 1 ½ hours
(75 marks).
Financial Systems  :  The question paper will be as follows :-
(a) Part I – Exercises on adding and subtraction – 15 minutes
(25 marks)
(b) Part II – 05 semi-structured questions to test the
candidates’ knowledge and understanding of subjects such
as Financial Control exercised in Government offices,
departments and ministries, custody of finance, receipts
and payments, budgetary estimations, supplies, work
and service (50 marks)
(c) Part III – 03 structured questions to test the knowledge
of candidate on basics of inspection and storing of goods
(25 marks)
Note.-– Candidates will not be allowed to use calculators for
adding exercises.
General Paper : This paper is designed to test the ability of the
candidate to read and understand a statement or minutes of
discussion and prepare a report and/or a letter and also to test the
ability of the candidate to understand and analyze the current social
affairs. This paper will consist of two parts;
Part I – Candidates are required to answer 02 questions given
from a paragraph or a certain problem (45 marks);
Part II – Three semi structured questions will be given and
candidates are required to answer 02 questions. Out of those two it
is compulsory to answer the question for which writing short notes
is required.
Compulsory Question (short notes) - 30 marks
Other questions - 25 marks
                        Total - 55 marks
Note :
(i) The candidates should answer these question papers in
the language medium in which they sat the entry
examination to the service or any other official language.
(ii) To qualify in these subjects, candidates will be required
to obtain a minimum of 33 per-cent (33%) of the marks
in each of these papers and an aggregate of 40 per-cent
(40%) of the marks in all three papers in one sitting.
6. Commissioner General of Examinations will release the results
of this examination to the Director-General of Combined Services
and the names of the successful candidates will be published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7. The application for this examination should be in the form of
the specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
Commissioner – General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 07th July, 2008. The
application form should be accompanied by a certificate of
satisfactory service. Heads of Departments must ensure that each
application is completed in every respect and that they have signed
the service certificate appended to the application form. The name
of the examination should be indicated in the top-left hand corner
of the envelope. Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
652
8. Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport .
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
9. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in papers of
A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear on the
first page and remaining numbers in other pages. The application
could be typewritten but should be filled in correctly and legibly
by candidates' own handwriting.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 should be affixed for subsequent sittings and the stamps
should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and
the date. Under any circumstances, this fee will not be refunded or
transferred in respect of any other examination.
The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Candidates should get their signature
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without admission
cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate
has not received his/her admission card at least seven days before
the day of examination, he/she should, without delay, inform the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla (Telegraphic Address “Exams”,
Battaramulla) about the non-receipt of admission card along with
the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Full postal address ;
(iv) Post office, registration number and the date of dispatch.
10. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
11. For the purpose of the Official Languages Policy, all the
candidates should prepare and fill their applications in the official
language.
12. The decision of the Director-General of Combined Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
A. N
OBERT,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd May, 2008.
Specimen Application Form
(For office use only)
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN
CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE INTO CLASS II OF THE SERVICE – 2008
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :————.
(In English Block Capitals)  eg. : SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :————.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Have you changed your name after entering the Public
Service ? :————.
If yes, indicate the previous name :————.
2.0 Name and address of the work place :
2.1 Name and the address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute :—
———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
(Admission Cards will be posted to this address)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female – 1, Male – 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
Language medium in which
the candidate sit for the
examination :
Sinhala 2/Tamil 3/English 4
(Indicate relevant number
in the cage. Candidates are
not allowed to change the
language medium selected
by them)
   Town               Town No.
(Indicate the name of the town
in which you wish to appear
for the examination as per
para 2.0 of the Gazette
notification)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
653
4.0  National Identity Card No. :
5.0  Present Post :
5.1 Post :————.
5.2 Number and date of the Appointment Letter :————.
5.3 Date of confirmation in the post as an officer in Class III
of the service :————.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time? :——
6.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :————.
6.3 Stamp Cage :
Affix Stamps to the value of Rs. 90 for subsequent sittings.
7.0  Candidate’s Statement :
I solemnly certify that,
(i) the statement made by me above is true to the best of my
knowledge and belief ;
(ii) I am an of ficer in Public Management Assistants’ Service
and my appointment has been confirmed on ...............;
(iii) I have earned all/all possible increments during the period
of 4 years immediately preceding 07th July, 2008;
(iv) I have not suffered any punishment more severe than a
fine or a reprimand since the date of last increment.
(v) I appear for this examination for the first time/that stamps
to the correct value are affixed here as exam fee.
I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to
be false and incorrect, disciplinary actions would be taken against
me. I agree to abide by the regulations of this examination.
I hereby state that information furnished above are true,  and
that I am eligible to appear for the exam in the language medium
mentioned above. The stamps affixed to the value of Rs. ......... are
valid and has not been used. I agree to abide by the rules stipulated
for this examination.
————,
Signature of the candidate.
(See the foot note).
Date :————.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of the
Head of Department.
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ..................... who is an officer
employed at my work place and who is known to me personally
............. placed his/her signature in my presence on this .............
day of ............... 2008.
————,
Signature and stamp of the person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................... is an officer in Class III of
the Public Management Assistants’ Service and has
completed 04 years of service as at 07th July, 2008 and is
eligible to sit the examination in terms of the notification
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka dated ....................;
(ii) The number of the appointment letter of Class III of officer
as per his/her personal file is .................. (Indicate the
number of the appointment letter);
(iii) The particulars given in Para 1.0 to 7.0 have been verified
and were found to be correct;
(iv) He/She is sitting the examination for the first time/
prescribed stamps for the relevant examination has been
affixed.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
————,
Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
06–82
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Admission for National Diploma in Information and
Communication Technology
(NDICT) Programs - July 2008
NATIONAL Diploma in Information and Communication
Technology (NDICT) is to be commenced on July, 2008 at the
following IT Center.
The total course fee is Rs. 15,000 and the duration of the course
is One Year (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in instalments.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
654
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA
Centre Mailing Address
National Information and
Communication Technology
Training Centre, Narahenpita
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
(1) Holder of NCICT
or
(2) Six passes in not more than two sittings with credits for
English & Mathematics in GCE(O/L);
and
any full time six months computer certificate course, which
should include following areas:
(1) Computer Basics (DOS, Windows, Principles of
Networking, Hardware).
(2) Office Automation (Word Processing, Spread Sheets,
Presentation software and Database software).
(3) Internet & WWW with HTML programming.
(4) System Analysis & Design.
Age Limit .– Age should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 30 years as at 30th June, 2008.
(3) Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an
interview.
(4) Application prepared as per the specimen application form
in A4 size paper (8.4" x 11.8") should be sent on or before
23rd June, 2008 to the address, which is indicated next to the
centre of first preference. Please indicate the title "National
Diploma in Information and Communication Technology" in
the top left hand corner of the envelope.
C
HAIRMAN,
V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka &
 IT Action Committee.
June 2008.
For office use only
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
NATIONAL DIPLOMA IN INFORMA TION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY
(NDICT)
Specimen Applicaiton Form - July 2008
1. Name with initials :—————.
(write in block letters)
2. Name in Full :————.
3. Permanent Address :————.   Contact T. P No.:——.
4. Distrct :—————.
5. Sex :—————.
6. Date of Birth :
Year:————.  Month:————.  Date:———.
7. Age as at 30th June, 2008 :
Years:————. Months :———.  Days:———.
8. Number of the National Identity Card and the Date issued :
————.
9. Selected V ocational Training Centre
Institution Centre
10. Centre at which NCICT/any other six months computer course
followed:————.
11. Index No. of Final NCICT exam (if any) :—————.
Grade obtained  (if any):—————.
12. Educational Qualifications:
1. G . C. E. (O/L) Results Index No.:——. Y ear:——.
Subject  Grade
II.  G . C. E. (A/L) Results Index No. :——. Y ear——.
Subject Grade
The information given above is true and correct.
—————.
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :—————.
06 – 77/1
Training Manager, National
IT Centre, 354, Elvitigala
Mawatha, Narahenpita.
Colombo 05

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
655
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Admission for National Certificate in Information and
Communication
TECHNOLOGY (NCICT) PROGRAMS - JULY 2008
1. National Certificate in Information and Communication
Technology (NCICT) is to be commenced on July, 2008 at the
following IT Centers:
The total course fee is Rs. 5,000 and the duration of the course
is six months (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in installments.
2.  Minimum Entry Qualifications:
Educational Qualifications:
(i) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06
Subjects with 02 Credit Passes for English & Mathematics
in not more than Two sittings.
or
(ii) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06
Subjects with 04 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple
Passes for English & Mathematics in not more than  Two
sittings.
or
(iii) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06
Subjects with 03 Credit Passes for any subject and 02 simple
Passes for English & Mathematics and also should have 02
simple passes for any subject at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in not more than Two  sittings.
Age Limit .– Age should be not less than 16 years and not more
than 25 years as at 30th of June, 2008.
3.  Selection will be done through an aptitude test and an
interview.
4.  List of centers in which the NCICT Program will be conducted
is given below. Please indicate the centre of your choice with the
relevant institution.
5.  Applications prepared as per the specimen application form
in A4 size paper (8.4"x11.8") should be sent on or before 23rd of
June, 2008 to the address, which is indicated next to the centre of
first preference. Please indicate the title “National Certificate in
Information & Communication Technology” in the top left hand
corner of the envelope.
C
HAIRMAN,
V ocational Training Authority of
 Sri Lanka & IT Action Committee.
June, 2008.
For office use only
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING
NA TIONAL CERTIFICATE IN INFORMA TION AND COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY (NCICT)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM - JULY 2008
1. Name with initials :—————————.
(Write in Block Letters)
2. Name in full :—————————.
3. Permanent Address :—————————.
4. Contact T. P. Number :—————————.
5.  District :—————————.
6. Sex :—————————.
7. Date of Birth:         Year:——. Month:——. Date:——.
8. Age as at 30th June, 2008
Years:——. Months:——. Days:——.
9. Number of the National identity Card and the Date issued :
No.:———————.              Date Issued:————.
10. Selected V ocational Training Centre :
Institution Centre
11. Education Qualifications :—————————.
(i)  I. G. C. E. (O/L) Results Index No.:——. Year:——.
Subject  Grade
(ii)  G . C. E. (A/L) Results   Index No. :——.  Year:——.
Subject Grade
I do  hereby certify that the above information is correct and
accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree that if the information
submitted by me is false or inaccurate I am liable to be dismissed
from my studentship.
————.
Signature of the Candidate.
Date:————.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
656
CENTRES UNDER THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA (VTASL)
Centre Mailing Address
01 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Padukka Assistant Director, Colombo District Office, V ocational
Training Authority of Sri Lanka, YMBA Building,
Sarana Road, Welikada,  Rajagiriya.
02 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Talbot Town, Galle
03 District V ocational Training Centre, Elpitiya
04 National IT Centre, Baddegama
05 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Thawalama Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Office,
Talbot Town, Galle.
06 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Yakkalamulla
07 District V ocational Training Centre, Thalalla, Kottegoda Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Pantaramaya, Pahala Peakwella, Matara.
08 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Y. M. B. A. Building, Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training
Authority Kandy of Sri Lanka, Ganoruwa Road, Peradeniya.
09 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kotabogoda,
Kadugannawa
10 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Peradeniya
11 District V ocational Training Centre, Veyangoda Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
V ocatinal V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka, Veyangoda.
12 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Yatiyana
13 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Thumbagoda, Balangoda Assistant Director, District Office V ocational Training
Authority of Sri Lanka, Panawenna, Kahawatta.
14 District V ocational Training Centre, Inamaluwa, Dambulla
15 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Minneriya Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Inamaluwa, Dambulla.
16 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Ella Road, Wellawaya Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training
Authority of Sri Lanka Niwasa Adikariya Road,
Monaragala.
17 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Iginiyagala Road, Ampara Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
MACFA Garment Factory Building, Akkareipattu Road,
Nindaur.
18 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Karativu
19 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Saindamarudu
20 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Akkareipattu
21 District V ocational Training Centre, Vandaramulai Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Vandaramulai, Batticaloa.
22 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Eraur.
23 District V ocatinal Training Centre, Ambegoda, Bandarawela. Assistant Director District Office Training Center,V ocational
Training Authority of Sri Lanka, Abegoda, Bandarawela
24 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rock Hill, Badulla.
25 District V ocational Training Centre, Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Center,
Henakaduwa, Sri Sudharshanaramaya, Tangalle
26 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Madamulana
27 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rambewa, Mihintale
28 Rural Vocational Training Centre, Kantale Assistant Director, District V ocatinal Training Centre, Kandy
Lake Road, Anuradhapura
29 Regional IT Centre, Kandy Lake Road, Anuradhapura
30 District V ocational Training Centre, Ballapana, Galigamuwa Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Ballapana, Galigamuwa.
31 District V ocational Training Centre, Horana Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Wewala, Horana.
32 Rural V ocational Training Centre, Bingiriya Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Saragama, Kurunegala.
33 District V ocational Training Centre, Marawila Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Chillaw Road, Marawila.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
657
CENTERS UNDER THE NATIONAL APPRENTICE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING AUTHORITY (NAITA)
Centre Mailing Address
34 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA”, North Central Province Office,
Medawachchiya 525/ 2,
35 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,  Maithreepala Senanayaka Mawatha, 2nd
Polonnaruwa Stage, Rathnayakapura, Anuradhapura.
36 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Jaffna
37 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA”, Northern Province Office, No. 7,
 Vaddukodai Temple Road, Jaffna.
38 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Vavuniya
39 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, AETI, Director/Principal, AETI, 07, Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatte Orugodawatte, Wellampitiya.
40 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Matara Province Director, “NAITA”, Southern Province Office, 27/A,
Open University Avenue, Nupe, Matara.
41 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Elpitiya
42 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA”, Central Province Office, 108/2B,
Katugastota Thiwankabodhi Mw. Kandy.
43 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Hatton
44 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Beruwala Province Director, “NAITA”, Western Province Office, 242,
Havelock Road, Colombo 05
45 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Embilipitiya
46 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Director, “NAITA”, Sabaragamuwa Province Office,
Mawanella College Avenue, New Town, Ratnapura.
47 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Yatiyantota
48 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Province Manager, “NAITA”, Eastern Province Office, No. 07,
 Trincomalee G . S. lane, Kalmunaikudi-13, Kalmunai
49 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Badulla Province Manager, “NAITA”, Uva Province Office, No. 288,
Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Off Passara Road, Badulla.
50 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Madampe Province Manager, “NAITA”, Northern Western Province
Office, Madampe Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
51 Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,
Galgamuwa
CENTRES UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (DTET)
52 Technical College, Maradana Principal, Technical College, Olcott Mawatha, Maradana,
Colombo 10.
53 Technical College, Aruppola Principal, Technical College, Aruppola, Kandy.
54 Technical College, Rathnapura Principal, Technical College, Farm Garden, Colombo Road,
Ratnapura.
55 Technical College, Galle Principal, Technical College, Kaluwella, Galle.
56 Technical College, Matara Principal, Technical College, Meddewatta, Matara.
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
658
CENTERS UNDER THE NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICES COUNCIL (NYSC)
57 V ocational Training Centre, National Youth Centre, O. I. C. National Youth Center, 65, High Level Road,
Maharagama Maharagama.
58 Rikillagaskada Youth Empowerment Centre, Nuwara-Eliya O. I. C. Rikillagaskada Training Centre, National Youth Services
Council, Rikillagaskada.
59 V ocational Training Centre, Kurunegala O. I. C. District Office, National Youth Services Council,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala.
60 V ocational Training Centre, Makola Manager , Korea-Lanka Friendship Technical Training Institute,
National Youth Services Council, Sapugaskanda, Makola.
61 V ocational Training Centre, Naula O. I. C. Naula Training Centre, National Youth Services Council,
Divisional Secretariat Office, Arangala, Naula.
62 V ocational Training Centre, Chilaw O. I. C. District Office, National Youth Services Council, Ananda
Mawatha, Chilaw.
63 V ocational Training Centre, Moneragala O. I. C. Moneragala V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Praja Shalawa Road, Kachcheriya Junction,
Moneragala.
64 V ocational Training Centre, Kobawaka O. I. C. Kobawaka V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Kobawaka, Govinna.
65 V ocational Training Centre, Ratmalana O. I. C. Ratmalana V ocational Training Centre, Railway Station
Road, Ratmalana.
66 V ocational Training Centre, Vauniya O. I. C. Vauniya V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Kandy Road, Vauniya.
06-77/2
Centre Mailing Address

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2008
659
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday )
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full pay-
ments to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be
accompanied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted
in payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of
the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8 , as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05. who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –06.06.2008
660
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue, Kirulapone,
Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2008
JUNE 06.06.2008 Friday — 23.05.2008 Friday 12 noon
13.06.2008 Friday –– 30.05.2008 Friday 12 noon
20.06.2008 Friday –– 06.06.2008 Friday 12 noon
27.06.2008 Friday –– 13.06.2008 Friday 12 noon
JULY 04.07.2008 Friday — 20.06.2008 Friday 12 noon
11.07.2008 Friday –– 27.06.2008 Friday 12 noon
18.07.2008 Friday –– 04.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
25.07.2008 Friday –– 11.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 01.08.2008 Friday — 18.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2008 Friday –– 25.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
15.08.2008 Friday –– 01.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
22.08.2008 Friday –– 08.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
29.08.2008 Friday –– 15.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.