

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 277]
————————
Presented by Hon. (Dr.) Ramesh Pathirana, M. P. for
Galle District on 29th November, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on October 28, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
FEDERATION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
INDUSTRY SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka

<!-- page 2 -->

1Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 007615—75  (10/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE FEDERATION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
INDUSTRY SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a non-profit organization called and known
as the “ Federation of Information Technology Industry
Sri Lanka” has heretofore been established with the objective
of inter-alia  promoting, encouraging, fostering and
safeguarding the interests of any body corporate of the
Information and Communications Technology Industry
(whether incorporate or not) and to assist with the
development of a sound and healthy Information and
Communications Technology Industry in the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and carry out and transact all
matters connected with the said Federation
:
AND WHEREAS the said Federation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transcted the several objects and
matters for which it was established in 1996, and is desirous
to be incorporated, and it will be in the public interest to
provide for such incorporation by law:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Federation of Information
Technology Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)  Act, No.
of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such body of perosns as now are members of the “Federation
of Information Technology Industry Sri Lanka” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Federation” or “FITIS”) shall hereafter be
admitted as members of the FITIS hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as
“the Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the 
“Federation of Information Technology
Incorporation
of the
Federation of
Information
Technology
Industry
Sri Lanka
.

<!-- page 3 -->

Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
Industry Sri Lanka”, and by that name may sue and be sued
with full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted, are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to promote, encourage, foster  the development
and safeguard the interests of any body corporate
of Information and Communications Technology
Industry  (whether such body is a body corporate
or not);
(b) to act as an advisory, consultative or coordinating
body for any body corporate of the Information
and Communications Technology Industry;
(c) to represent the members (whether such body is a
body corporate or not); of the  Information and
Communications Technology Industry to negotiate
on all matters concerning the industry in all
discussions of the Association with the Government
of Sri Lanka;
(d) to promote and liaise with other bodies, with similar
objects with a view to fiacilitating the exchange of
ideas, knowledge and experience;
(e) formulate, maintain and publish Codes of Conduct
to be observed by the industry and to promote and
encourage high standards of conduct, service and
performance throughout the  Information and
Communications Technology Industry so as to
develop the confidence and respect of the public;
(f) to encourage and foster ethical and professional
standards of work and conduct for members of the
Corporation, and to take such steps as are necessary
to promote the same;
Objects of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(g) to collect, collate, and distribute information and
ideas, on methods and techniques for the benefit
and improvement of the  Information and
Communications Technology Industry;
(h) to interact with the Government or any public
bodies with a view to promote the interests of
FITIS and the  Information and Communications
Technology Industry;
(i) to engage in such other activities as may be
derermined by the Executive Council in order to
promote the interests of the  Information and
Communications Technology Industry;
(j) to  do all such other acts and things as are
incidental or conducive to the attainment of the
above objects.
4. (1) Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or conducive or incidental to
the promotion or furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation or any one of them.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1). the Corporation may exercise
and discharge the following powers and functions:—
(a) to acquire, hold and develop any property movable
or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, device or
otherwise;
(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, or grant, convey, devise,
assign, exchange or otherwise dispose of, any such
property or part or portion of such property;
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to invest moneys belonging to the Corporation in
such securities as may be determined by the
Executive Council;
(d) to open, operate and close bank accounts and to
borrow or raise money with the property of the
Corporation as security, or without such security,
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(e) to raise funds locally and internationally and receive
grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind;
(f) to invest any surplus funds in an appropriate manner
in the best interests of the Corporation;
(g) to establish Advisory  Board as the Executive
Council thinks fit;
(h) to appoint such officers and servants as may be
necessary for the purposes of the Corporation, and
to dismiss and take disciplinary action against such
officers and servants; and
(i) to co-operate with other organizations, voluntary
bodies and statutory authorities and to exchange
information and give or receive advice.
 5. (1) The affairs of the corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act be administered by an Executive
Council (hereinafter referred to as the Council) consisting
of office bearers and such other members as may be elected
in accordance with rules of the Corporation made under
section 6.
(2) The First Council shall be the Executive Council
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any meeting and by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law, for the following matters:—
(a) the classification of members and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members;
(b) the appointment resignation, vacation of , or
removal of members, and their powers, conduct and
duties;
(c) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the procedures to be observed at, and the
summoning and holding of meetings of the
Executive Council and/or meetings of members,
the times, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat;
(e) the administration and management of the
property of the Corporation, the custody of its
funds and the maintainance and audit of its
accounts;
(f) the appointment, manner and the procedure to
obtain the advice from the Advisory Board.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Executive Council shall at all
times be subject to the rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
7. The Fund of the Corporation shall consist of—
(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the FITIS on the
day immdiately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, which shall stand
transferred to the Corporation as from that date;
(b) all monyes that may accrue to the Corporation from
investments or other receipts due to the FITIS after
the date of the commencement of this Act; and
(c) any grant received from the government from time
to time for the purpose of carrying out the aims and
objects of the Corporation.
8. (1) There shall be paid out  of the Fund—
(a) expenses necessary for the working, and
maintenance of the Corporation;
(b) the payment of salaries and incentives to officers,
servants and other employees; and
(c) all such other payments as are approved by the
Executive Council as being necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the objects of the
Corporation.
(2) The monyes and the property of the Corporation,
however derived shall be applied solely for the promotion of
the objects specified above, and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or otherwise howsoever to the members of the
Corporation.
9. (1) There shall be an Advisory Board appointed by
the Executive Council.
(2) Members of the Council of Infotel Lanka Society
Limited a society registered under the Societies Ordinance
(Chapter 123) may serve on the Advisory Board for the
Corporation.
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Payments out
of the Fund.
Advisory
Board.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
10. All debts and liabilities of the FITIS subsisting on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be paid and discharge by the Corporation
hereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the FITIS on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
11. All contracts and agreements of the said FITIS
existing on the date immediately preceding the coming into
operation of this Act shall with effect from the date of the
coming into operation of this Act be deemed to be the
contracts and agreements of the Corporation hereby
constituted.
12.  (1) The accounts of the Corporation shall be
examined and audited at least once in every year and the
correctness of the income and Expenditure. Accounts and
the Balance sheet shall be signed by two members of the
Corporation authorized to do so by a resolution passed by
the Corporation and confirmed by a qualified auditor
appointed by the Corpoation.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Contracts,
&c. of the
FITIS
deemed to
be those of
Corporation.
Accounts and
audit.
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
8
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute;
13. The financial year to the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
14. (1) Any expense incurred by the FITIS in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the FITIS before any court
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation and any
costs paid to, or recovered by, the FITIS in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Corporation.
(2) Any expense incurred be FITIS as is referred to in
subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
FITIS before any court in respect of any act which is done or
is purported to be done by FITIS under this Act or on the
direction of the Executive Council shall, if the court holds
that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the
Funds of the Corporation unless such expense is recovered
by FITIS in such suit or prosecution.
15. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Chairman and may be altered in such manner as may
be determined by the Executive Council. The seal shall not
be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except with the
sanction of the Executive Council and in the presence of
two members of the Council who shall sign the instrument
in token of their presence. Such signing shall be independent
of the signing  of any person as a witness.
16. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
Financial
year, of the
Corporation.
Protection of
members of
the Executive
Council and
officers, &c.
of the
Corporation
for action
under this
Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time
being, of the Corporation to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of, the same.
17. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against any member of the Executive Council or any officer,
servant or agent of the Corporation in any action brought
against the Corporation.
5 No writ to
issue against
person or
property of a
member of
the Executive
Council of or
officer &c.
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 11 -->

Federation of Information Technology
Industry Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .