

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 31 OF 2017
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 14th of December, 2017]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 15, 2017
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2017
2—PL 010510— 2962  (11/2017)
Short title.
[Certified on 14th of December, 2017]
L.D.—O. 55/2017
AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 262)
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 2017.
2. Section 65 A of the Local Authorities Elections
Ordinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactement”) is hereby amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words, “The counting officer shall declare
first the candidate of the recognized political party
or the Indipendent group, who or which as the case
may be, who polled the highest number of votes, an
elected member for that ward and the balance
number of members required to be elected as
members of that ward, being declared accordingly.”
of the words, “The counting officer shall declare
the candidates of the recognized political party or
the independent group, as the case may be which
polled the highest number of the votes, as elected
members for that ward.”
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section.
3. Section 65 AA of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures, “under subsection (3) of
Amendment of
section 65 A of
Chapter 262.
Amendment of
section 65 AA of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2017
section 65(3) and such number of members so
elected do not include any women members, then
the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section shall not apply to such recognized political
party or independent group.” of the words and
figures, “under subsection (3) of section 65
B and
such number of members so elected do not include
any women members, then the provisions of
subsections (3) and (4) of this section shall not
apply to such recognized political party or
independent group.”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures, “and has less than three
members elected or returned, then the provisions of
subsections (3) and (4) of this section shall not
apply to such recognized political party or
independent group.” of the words and figures,
“and has less than three members elected or returned,
then the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of
this section shall not apply to such recognized
political party or independent group.”;
(3) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figure, “The apportionment of
women members” and “subsection (2) of this
section” respectively, of the words and figure, “The
apportionment of women members” and
“subsection (2) of this section”, respectively;
(4) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figure, “the shortfall in the number
of members shall be returned from among the
women candidates in the first nomination paper or
the additional nomination paper other than the
women condidates who have been elected or are
disqualified to be a member under section 9.” of

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2017
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
the words and figure, “the shortfall in the number
of members shall be returned from among the
women candidates in the first nomination paper or
the additional nomination paper other than the
women candidates who have been elected or are
disqualified to be a member under  section 9.”; and
(5)  by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,
and the substitution therefor of the following:—
“Apportionment of women members.”.
4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2017