

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2091$76 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'10'05
No.2091/76 -  FRIDAY  OCTOBER  05,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG  4217 — 22  (10/2018)
CENTRAL  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
The Order passed by the 24(2), (1), (xii), (xiii) clauses & 24(3) of the 1992 No. 04 Central Province
Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute passed as per the powers vested to the Provincial
Councils by the 8th Sub document of the 13th amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the 20th clause of the year 2000 No. 01 Central Province
passenger Transport Services Authority Statute
I, Ediriweera Weerawardena, Minister of Road Development, transport, Power and Energy, Housing and Construction of
the Central Provicial Council hereby announce under the powers vested in me by 24(2) (1), (xii), (xiii) clauses of the
1992 No. 04 of the Central Province Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute and 20th clause of the year 2000 No. 01
Central Province Passenger Transport Services Authority Statute shall revoke the orders made by the Extraordinary
Gazette No. 1990/48 of the Democratic Socialist Rupublic of Sri Lanka on 29.10.2016 and will pass the below mentioned
orders in addition to the orders made on the new transport system named as "Sahasara" introduced by the Central Province
Passenger Trasnsport Services Authority published by an Extraordinary Gazette No. 1990/27 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka on 27.10.2016 and with effect from the date of publication of the Gazette.
1. (i) The Central Province Passenger Transport Services Authority should Identify transport units through
one route or group of routes and announce them within 36 months from the date of the Minister's
order ;
(ii) A manager should be appointed to administrate the announced route units according to the new system ;
(iii) A control unit should be established for each and every announced route unit or a group of routes.
2. (i) Route permit holders should provide passenger transport services in their route or routes within the date
of the route units announced or time period specified by the Passenger Transport Authority under the
administration of the manager appointed according to (1) ii by the Passenger Transport Services Authority
and new buses should operate within the approved route or a group of routes according to time tables,
regulations and service standards given by the manager under the supervision of the authority.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
2A
(ii) All income earned on passenger and goods transport through electronic ticket machines and income
earned without an electronic machine due to a technical failure and all other income earned should by
deposited in a bank approved by the central province passenger transport services authority which is
accepted by the Central Bank in an account named "Central Province Passenger Transport Services
Authority."
(iii) Only the buses that comprise Central Province Passenger Transport Services Authority approved electronic
ticket machines with GPS, CCTV and GPRS technology should be given permission to passenger
transportation.
(iv) Except in a case of a technical failure the passenger transportation charges should always be collected
through electronic cards.
(v) A complete control unit should be opended and maintained to obtain data and information from electronic
devices fixed on buses and the data should be captured, safe guarded and used for the efficiency of the
bus service.
(vi) The Central Province Passenger Transport Service Authority should announce the amount of money that
will be paid for one kilo meter to owners of each route or group of routes based on the minimum distance
of the route or group of routes, the profit of each route and by the quality of the service provided by
them from time to time.
(vii) Bus owners who are forwarding documents to prove that they are contributing properly for employees
through Employee Provident Fund and Employee Trust Fund should be given the permission for passenger
transports.
(viii) Only buses proven that they are operated properly in a route or a group of routes for 02 months after fixing
electronic devices should be included in the "Sahasara" operation system.
(ix) Bus reservations should be branded as "Sahasara".
(x) Management of the Bus Control Unit should be carried out by the Passenger transport services authority
or a bus service Manager approved by the Authority.
(xi) The Passenger transport services authrity should appoint investigation groups and transfer them the
required authority to investigate the efficiency of the transport services and proper bus transactions.
(xii) A suitable unit under the authority should be established to carry out and efficient public complaint
management.
(xiii) Suitable incentives should by provided to promote using electronic payment cards.
3. The Orders cited in 1 and 2 should immediately be implemented within all the routes of the central province
soon after from the date of the publication of the Gazette notification.
4. The Passenger Transport Services Authority owns full authority of maintaining service quality & passenger
comfort and all decisions taken to introduce new services.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 05.10.2018
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
5. (i) Passenger Transport Services Authority should carry out a route unit audit for technical and financial
audits by appointing qualified audit officers.
(ii) Should provide facilities to bus permit owners to check these audit reports when required.
(iii) These annual audit reports should by forwarded to the Provincial Council Through subject Minister.
EDIRIWEERA  WEERAWARDENA,
Minister of Road Development, Transport, Power and
Energy and Housing and Construction,
Central Province.
P. O. Box 104, No. 109,
Yatinuwera Street,
Kandy.