

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2313$31 - 2023 ckjdß ui 04 jeks nodod - 2023'01'04
No. 2313/31 -  wedNesday,   jaNuary  04,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6153 - 756 (01/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CODE   OF   CONDUCT   FOR   CONTESTING   POLITICAL   PARTIES/  INDEPENDENT   GROUPS    AND 
CANDIDATES   OF   THE   ELECTIONS
This Code of Conduct is issued in terms of section 8(8) of the Parliamentary elections act, No. 1 of 1981 as amended by 
the Parliamentary elections (amendment) act, No. 58 of 2009. The Code is applicable to the period commencing from the 
date of notice of nomination and to the date of declaration of the result of any election.
Before the enactment of laws for the recognition of Political Parties, there were political parties in sri Lanka society 
which date back to 1931. Laws regarding the recognition of political parties have been amended at several times since 1959. 
rules and regulations can do little in making the role of political parties more meaningful towards the advancement of the 
contemporary society, but the political parties have a greater responsibility in creating a conducive environment to conduct 
free and fair elections.
having considered this responsibility, the Code of Conduct for political parties and candidates was issued by the 
Department of Elections for the first time with the Provincial Councils Elections held in 2012. The secretaries of political 
parties, party representatives and representatives of observer organizations have agreed with this Code at the Committee for 
investigation of election Complaints at all elections held since 2012.
it should be noted that this revised Code issued by the election Commission is applicable to those who hold leading 
position such as leaders and secretaries, candidates, activists and supporters of all political parties contesting at elections, 
representatives of the Provincial Council and Local authorities, all activists of the political parties, supporters of the candidates, 
independent group leaders and their candidates.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
2a
Therefore, all those who are engaged in the elections are hereby informed to adhere to this code of conduct.
A. Rule of Law
01. uphold the citizens’ rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and other laws of sri Lanka, assist and 
encourage the voter to exercise the franchise to elect people’s representatives at elections and vote at referenda 
freely and without any obstruction.
02. safeguard the equal rights that the candidates of all political parties and independent groups are entitled to at 
all times in the election process.
03. respect the rights of all political parties and candidates and their right to educate the voter, while safeguarding the 
right of those with opposing views to hold their views and their right to carry out lawful promotional activities.
04. refrain from obstructing or interfering in any manner with government, semi-government, private or other 
institutions established under law from carrying out their legitimate activities and responsibilities.
05. Refrain from obstructing or influencing institutions and personnel vested with the responsibility of maintaining 
law and order in the country, from carrying out their legitimate duties. 
06. ensure that propaganda activities are carried out without violating existing laws and without interfering with 
the life of the ordinary citizen.
07. educate all the candidates and activists on the laws (particularly the sections of the acts) relating to elections 
and advise them to refrain from committing offences, corrupt practices and illegal activities.
08. refrain from touching or removing of material, equipment and documents assigned to be used during the conduct 
of the poll or the counting of votes, without obtaining approval from the relevant authority.
B. General Conduct
01. refrain from any activity, expression or behavior which could create or aggravate differences, hatred and tension 
between sri Lankans of different religions, languages, races, customs and castes.
02. Limit criticisms of other political parties or independent groups to their policies, programmes and their past 
activities and refrain from criticizing the private life of candidates or making statements or allegations that are 
not prove and unsubstantiated against candidates of the same party or other parties.
03. Select candidates who can devote themselves to the future well-being of the citizens of Sri Lanka by fulfilling 
the objectives of the constitutional bodies to which they are to be elected, and who conduct their campaigns in 
a disciplined and decent manner.
04. select candidates based on their past conduct and good behaviour, respect for the law, non conviction before 
courts, dedication to serve the society etc., avoid persons who use their wealth or social status to the detriment 
of society.
05. submit the declaration of assets and liabilities of candidates at the time of handing over nominations or before 
the expiry of 30 days after nomination period. 
06. educate candidates/agents not to smoke or consume liquor or intoxicants inside polling stations or enter polling 
stations counting centres and result declaration centre after consuming liquor.
07. adhere to the instruction that only those who are permitted shall enter the nomination centers or polling stations 
or counting centers or results declaration centers as well as their premises and act in accordance with the directive 
not to take weapons to such places.
08. Candidates to abstain from engaging in prohibited election related activities and prevent his/her supporters from 
engaging in such activities.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
3a
C. Election Propaganda Activities
01. hold campaign meetings without causing any disruption to law and order and to the lawful campaign activities 
of rival candidates, and maintain election offices in accordance with election laws.
02. Follow election laws in printing election material and distributing handbills, among voters,
in Particular :-
i. refrain from distributing anonymous handbills without indicating the name of the printer/publisher and 
from printing illegal notices, etc ;
ii. refrain from using large crowds in the form of rallies or processions, music or displaying posters when 
engaged in door to door canvassing or distribution of hand bills and prevent candidates or the close 
relations of candidates from engaging in door-to-door canvassing, if it is prohibited by the law.
03. refrain from displaying any election campaign notices, posters, photographs or paintings with the objective of 
promoting the election of a party or an independent group or a candidate, or preventing the election of a rival 
party, independent group or candidate in a state owned or private building, residential premises or a vacant land 
belonging to the government or a private person or in a public place or road to which the public have access, 
such display being permitted to be exhibited only at notified offices and within the premises in which a meeting 
is conducted on the day of such meeting.
04. refrain from using lands, buildings or any property owned by the state or semi-state institutions for election 
promotion, except assembly halls or play grounds that are hired under normal conditions.
05. refrain from using places of religious worship or land or premises belonging to any religious organization for 
election promotion.
06. Display posters or flags related to the election or the name and number of the candidate only on the vehicle in 
which the candidate travels and refrain from using unregistered vehicles or vehicles with garage/fake numbers 
for election promotion.
07. restrict any decorations or exhibition of election promotion materials to the venue of an election campaign 
meeting, ensure that such decorations do not harm the environment and remove all such decorations without 
delay after the meeting.
08. refrain from holding processions, public rallies, motorcades and bicycle rallies as promotional activities during 
the election period as they are violations of election laws.
09. use loudspeakers only at the places permitted, restrict the use of loudspeakers to the time allowed for the meeting 
and refrain from using loudspeakers in moving vehicles.
10. stop all propaganda activities, 48 hours before the day of poll and refrain from holding musical shows, 
advertisements in print/electronic media, during such silent period to promote party or candidates.
11. refrain from using vehicles, or other state property or any powers and privileges available to a Member of 
Parliament, Provincial Councils or Local authorities to promote the election of a party, independent group or 
a candidate.
12. refrain from using any security personnel, weapons and other security equipment legally provided to a people’s 
representative for his or her protection, for any illegal purpose.
13. use the services of sri Lanka rupavahini Corporation and the sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation provided, 
under election law, to a party or an independent group for election propaganda, according to the guidelines 
and conditions imposed by the election Commission and the heads of the respective corporations. (This is not 
applicable for Provincial Council and Local authorities elections.)
14. use the free postal facility provided under the election law to send a publication, by political parties and 
independent groups, to every household according to the provisions of the relevant act and according to 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
4a
the instructions issued by the Post Master General. (This is not applicable to Provincial Council and Local 
authorities elections).
15. refrain from election promotion activities that disturb the conduct of public examinations including the General 
Certificate of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Level) and Grade 5 Scholarship Examination at the examination 
centers and at their evaluation centers at schools.
16. refrain from using previous statements/views of a candidate about another party or of a candidate to promote 
or demote a party or a candidate, if such person objects.
D. Poll Day
01. refrain from engaging in any prohibited activity, especially, canvassing for votes etc., mentioned in the election 
law, within a radius of 500 meters of a polling station on the poll day.
02. refrain from obstructing voters who come to the polling station and voters casting their vote at the polling station, 
from influencing the voter and from preventing the voters casting their vote freely and in secret.
03. refrain from intimidating or causing bodily harm to voters, polling agents, candidates and election observers 
and their families or causing damage to their houses or properties, from interrupting voters on their arrival at 
or departure from the polling station, and from chasing away polling agents from the polling station.
04. ensure that only those permitted (secretary of contesting political party, candidates and their polling agents) 
enter the polling station after they prove their identity, while refraining from bringing security personnel or 
journalists, or photographers into the polling station.
05. Refrain from committing or promoting of any corrupt practice or offences (such as bribery, intimidation stuffing 
of ballot boxes at the polling station, breaking into polling stations, impresonation or other corrupt practices 
or offences.)
06. refrain from illegal transport of voters to polling stations.
07. ensure that polling agents co-operate with the poll staff at the polling station and that the agents do not create 
any disturbance at the polling station.
08. refrain from interfering with election observers approved by the election Commission in engaging in observations 
and support their activities.
09. refrain from prohibited actions such as videoing, using mobile phones, etc., in the premises of the polling stations.
Please note that above codes are applicable for the day of postal voting as well.
E. Count of Votes and Preference (including Postal Votes), and Declaration of Results
01. Make the counting agents aware of the procedure regarding the counting of votes and preferences (including 
the counting of postal votes) and the procedure for making complaints.
02. ensure that the agents at the Centre for Counting V otes and at the Centre for declaration of results observe and 
follow the administrative arrangements at the centre provided by the election Commission and the returning 
Officer.
03. ensure that Government Ministers, Ministers of Provincial Councils, Members of Provincial Councils and 
Local authorities and other politicians are prevented from entering Counting Centers/halls unless they are duly 
appointed as Counting agents or are candidates.
04. Prevent politicians appointed as counting agents or declaration centre agents from being accompanied by 
security personnel of any politician, with or without weapons, into the counting halls of the Centre for results 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
5a
declaration and refrain from bringing unauthorized persons to the premises of the counting halls/centre for 
results declaration.
F. Hate Speech or Speech prejudicial to national harmony
01. abstain from hate speech of any form ; that is speech that threatens, or insults communities or social groups, 
especially women, persons with special needs or disabled, those of different sexual orientation and other 
religious or ethnic groups.
02. ensure that all those engaged in political activities refrain from hate speech at all times, especially during the 
period commencing from the first day of the nomination period at any election and ending on the day following 
the date of the poll at such election.
03. Hate speech is indentified as an offence and therefore those who make hate speech should be reported.
04. abstain from making statements or displaying an image that disturbs the harmony and mutual trust among the 
ethnic and religious groups.
05. abstain from making any statement that may harm or prejudice the dignity of ethnic or religious groups and 
individuals and abstain from using such statements as propaganda.
06. abstain from making statements or from any action that could be deemed to be prejudicial to or discriminative 
of any person or group based on religious, ethnic, linguistic, caste, or gender differences.
07. abstain from making statements or engaging in any action that is contemptuous or abusive of women based on 
their physical appearance. Though women are specifically referred to here those who are engaged in politics 
should refrain from such statements or action since they are relevant to every citizen.
08. abstain from making statements or engaging in any action that is contemptuous or abusive of any deformity or 
disability of any person.
G. Other important Matters
01. Present to the voters as a candidate of a recognized political party the statement of Policies (Manifesto) of the 
party and the manner in which it would be implemented within a specified period and submit copies of same 
to the election Commission and through the Commission to the department of archives.
02. Abstain from using state property, state officials, official vehicles or offices for election promotion and refrain 
from promotion activities like canvassing, distribution of handbills, exhibition of display boards or notices in 
government offices, schools etc. or within the premises of such institution.
03. Abstain from engaging in election promotion making use of a person’s office.
04. refrain from using government owned aircraft or any other vehicles without payment.
05. ensure that public buildings, play grounds, and government circuit bungalows are used after payment of fees 
and charges and allow others to use them in as fair manner.
06. refrain from publishing political newsletters, articles or advertising supplements etc., at the expense of the 
government or government institutions.
07. Refrain from inviting voters or state officers individually or in groups to private or official residences and from 
entertaining them during the period of the election.
08. Refrain from making premises of financial assistance, laying foundation stones for projects or proposed projects, 
promising to provide roads, water and electricity services, and making ad-hoc appointments to posts outside 
the approved scheme of recruitments with the aim of attracting votes.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
6a
09. refrain from obstructing investigations carried out by law enforcement authorities, in regard to violation of 
election laws, obstructions to inquiries, into corrupt practices and election offences.
10. refrain from making use of the print or electronic media during the period of the election to make false and 
unsubstantiated allegations about rival parties and their activities and denying the aggrieved parties of the right 
to reply.
11. respond to criticism or allegations made about parties and politicians without using propaganda in any form 
(without using untrustworthy promotional information) by non-aggressive and lawful means and abstain from 
using force in retaliation.
12. Refrain from utilizing security personnel provided for personal security unofficially for political propaganda 
work and engaging them to harm rivals, condemn such abusive activities openly.
13. Openly condemn any political party or political organization illegally using armed personnel and inform such 
instances to relevant authorities.
14. abstain from participating as a candidate or a leading activist of a political party at state ceremonies held during 
the period of election and refrain from using such ceremonies for election promotion of a party or a candidate.
15. refrain from involving directly or indirectly in political motivated recruitments, appointments, promotions and 
transfers.
16. ensure that the political parties and candidates do not gain any political advantage from processions, carnivals or 
exhibitions or sports competitions etc. organized by the government or oganized with government’s patronage.
17. abstain from using educational seminars conducted for public examinations and scholarship examination to 
promote parties/ candidates.
Other Matters
1. Abstain from using or otherwise abusing the National Anthem, National Flag, religious symbols, religious flags, 
paintings or photographs of founders of religions or religious leaders through publication or broadcast to promote 
or demote the candidature of a candidate or parties/groups.
2. abstain from exhibiting them at promotional rallies, meetings of parties/groups or candidates or on the notices 
and display boards. Refrain from using photographs or paintings of public officers, in any manner, to promote 
parties/candidates.
3. abstain from using government owned places which are ordinarily given for the promotion activities of political 
parties/independent groups exclusively for the propaganda activities of one single party or a candidate and give 
equal opportunity to other parties/groups/candidates to reserve and use such places.
4. To minimize the problems arising with regard to the reservation of playgrounds or halls owned by Local authorities, 
all politicians shall follow the instructions of the District Committee headed by the Returning Officer.
5. Abstain from uttering at any religious assembly any words for the purpose of influencing the result of an election 
or inducing any elector to vote or refrain from voting for a candidate of any recognized political party or 
independent group at such election.
6. abstain from distributing and displaying at any religious assembly, any handbill, placard, poster, drawing, notice, 
photograph of a candidate, symbol, sign, flag or banner ; holding or causing to be held any public meeting at 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
7a
a place of worship for the purpose of promoting the election, or the election campaign of a candidate of any 
recognized political party or independent group at such election.
It is expected that candidates contesting at the any Elections and Secretaries of respective political parties, agents 
and supporters or candidates, as applicable, act in accordance with the aforesaid code. It is also expected that the 
candidates and, as relevant, Secretaries of Political Parties will made suitable arrangements to ensure that their agents, 
party members, followers and supporters earnestly observe this Code of Conduct.
 
Nimal G. PuNchihewa S. B. DiwaratNe m. m. mohameD
 Chairman, Member, Member,
 election Commission. election Commission. election Commission.
 K. P. P. PathiraNa P. S. m. charleS
 Member, Member,
 election Commission. election Commission.
 
On this 04th day of january 2023
at election secretariat,
sarana Mawatha, rajagiriya.
EOG  01 - 0059
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.