

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 23]
————————
Presented by Hon. Dilum Amunugama, M. P. for Kandy District
on 24th November, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on November 09, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
  KANDY SRI PUSHPADANA SOCIETY LTD.
(INCORPORATION)
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
to incorporate the Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
2—PL 009430— 225  (11/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
2—PL 009312—300 (10/2015)
L.D.—O. 6/2006.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE KANDY SRI PUSHPADANA SOCIETY LTD.
WHEREAS as a Society known as  “the Kandy Sri
Pushpadana Society Ltd” had been established so far for the
purpose of implementing all its objectives and matters as
agreed upon according to the regulation, by the said Society
and its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has so for successfully
implemented the said objectives and matters for which it
was established, and an application has been made to
incorporate the said society and it will be for the public
advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kandy Sri Pushpadana
Society Ltd. (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many person as now are members of the
Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd. (hereinafter referred to
as the “Organisation”)  or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under  the name and style of the
“Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.”  and by that name
may sue and be sued, in all courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby  declared to be —
(a) provide  flowers free of charge to devotees who
come to worship the Sri Dalada Maligawa
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of Kandy Sri
Pushpadana
Society Ltd.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
especially on fullmoon poya days and generally
on other days to be offered and offer milk food to
the Sacred Tooth Relic on full moon poya days;
(b) provide board and lodging to pilgrims, both lay
and clergy at the Society hall;
(c) establish and maintain Schools and Dhamma
Schools to develop wisdom of the Buddhist
community;
(d) in addition to Dhamma School service, organize
inter - dhamma school oratorical contests, quiz
contests, educational tours and workshops;
(e) take all steps necessary for the progress of Buddhist
principles and Buddhist culture;
(f) the Corporation shall work frequently to safeguard
religious and national identity of the Buddhist
community and to respect the rights of other
religious and nations;
(g) take remedial measures to develop the economical
standard of the Buddhist community and take steps
to ensure mutual friendship of the members;
(h) train local and foreign missionaries from among
both laymen and clergymen;
(i) conduct professional courses for unemployed youth
and find employment for them ;
(j) conduct tuition classes for students preparing for
examinations;
(k) make arrangements to hold Mihindu perahera
annually on every Poson Poya day and to proceed
along the strees of Kandy with elephants and tuskers
exhibiting special local cultural and religious items;30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(l) provide financial assistance, articles and other aids
to victims and displaced people in situations of
natural and national disasters; and
(m) act in collaboration with any general public
organization which works for the existence of
religion and local culture.
4. (1) The Corporation comprises of a Board of Advisors
not more than five clergymen and laymen, Board of Trustees
comprising of the Chairman, three Vice Chairman  Secretary
and Treasurer, a Board of Officials comprising of Chairman,
three Vice-Chairmen, Secretary, Assistant Secretary,
Treasurer, Inspector, General Manager, and Secretary of the
religions division, and in addition to the Board of Officials,
a General Committee comprising of fifteen officers and the
General Assembly.
In addition there will be four committees elected by
the General Committee at its discretion, viz. finance and
buildings, religious and cultural, education, social services
and special projects, and sub-committees shall be appointed
as may be necessary when launching respective projects.
(2) As provided for by the laws and regulations and
members of the Corporation, the administrative activities of
the Corporation  should be operated by a Management
Council hereinafter referred to as the ‘Council’ comprising
of other persons elected or nominated according to the
existing regulations of the Society at the relevant time.
(3) The first Management Council of the Corporation
shall be the Management Council of the Society which held
offices on the day prior to the date of commencement of the
implementation of this Act.
5. (1) The custody of all the moveable and immoveable
properties of the Society should be vested in a Board of
Trustees comprising of a number of members elected
according to the regulations of the Corporation, and subject
to the said regulations.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation .
Board of
Trustees.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The Fist Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall be
the same of the Society which had been holding offices on
the day prior to the date of commencement of this Act.
6. The Corporation shall have the following powers
subject to the provisions of this Act and any other written
law:—
(a) the acquisition, possession and development of
moveable or immoveable property belonging to
the 
Corporation by way of purchasing, grant, gift,
disposal of property by a Last Will or in any other
manner;
(b) transferring, mortgaging, leasing, exchanging or
disposal in any other manner of such property;
(c) for the purpose of implementing the objectives of
the 
Corporation , appointment of officers and
workers necessary, employ, payment of
remuneration of them, implementation of discipline
concerning them, and dismiss them from service;
(d) acceptance of local and foreign financial or material
grants, gifts or donations;
(e) opening, maintenance and closure of bank accounts
or bank accounts or taking or obtaining loans with
or without security;
(f) investment of money belonging to the 
Corporation
in certain security bills determined by the
Corporation ;
(g) in order to achieve the objectives of the
Corporation, performance of all acts and deeds
incidental or beneficial to the Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation .

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Fund of the
Corporation.
7. (1) The fund of the Corporation shall be comprised of
the following moneys:—
(a) moneys credited to the Society as at the date prior
to the commencement of the implementation of this
Act and the moneys that should have been vested
in the 
Corporation from that date;
(b) moneys received by the Corporation  after the
commencement of this Act.
(2)  All fund credited to the Corporation should be utilized
for the management of the activities of the Corporation and
achievement its objectives.
8. (1) It shall be lawful to enact, from time to time
regulations which are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law  for all these under
mentioned matters or few them by a not less than 2/3rd
majority of votes of the members who cast their votes at a
general meeting:—
(a) selection and nomination of members of the
Corporation and their powers, duties and the term
of office;
(b) powers, conduct, duties and functions of various
officers, representatives and employees of the
Corporation ;
(c) procedure to be adopted when summoning and
holding meetings of the Corporation , times and
venues of holding meetings, agenda and quorum
of meetings, maintenance of activities of the said
meetings and includents activities of them;
(d) qualifications and disqualifications for the
membership of the 
Corporation and Council;
(e) use of property belonging to the Corporation ,
custody of the moneys of the Corporation ,
maintenance and auditing of accounts of the
Corporation; and
Rules of the
Corporation .
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) general management of activities of the Corporation
and achieving its objectives.
(2) Any regulation enacted under subsection 1 can be
amended, added something to it, or can be repealed in a like
manner at such meeting.
(3) The rules of the said Society in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made under this
section in so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act or
any other written law.
(4) All the members of the Corporation should be subject
to the regulations which are in force at the relevant time.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Society existed prior
to the date of commencement of the Act should be settled by
the Corporation and all various charity including debts and
contributions to be paid as at the said date should be paid to
the Corporation for purpose of this Act.
10. The seal of the Corporation should be in the custody
of the Secretary of the Corporation and the seal of the
Corporation should not be placed on any instrument except
before the Secretary and any other number of persons as
provided for by the regulations of the Corporation who shall
sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
11. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or
any other person except such as are mentioned in this Act
and those claiming by, from, or under them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Debts to be
paid and
recovered by
the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kandy Sri Pushpadana Society Ltd.
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .