

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1952$15 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'02'02
No.1952/15  - TUESDAY ,  FEBRUARY  02,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
NORTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act No. 6 of 1952
DRAFT  OF  THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS  FOR  URBAN  COUNCILS
DRAFT By-Laws for the Urban Council chapter I to VI made by me,C. V . Wigneswaran, as Chief Minister and the Minister
of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Electricity, Housing and Construction, Industries and Enterprise Promotion,
Tourism, Local Government and Provincial Administration of Northern Province Provincial Council by virtue of powers
vested in the minister under whose purview the subject of Local Government of Provincial Council falls under Sub section
1 of section 2of Local Authorities(Standard By-Laws) Act No. 6 of 1952 read with  paragraph (a) of Sub section 1 of
section 2 of Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are published hereby.
While the above draft By-Laws are approved by resolution passed by the Northern Province Provincial Council
under Sub section 3 of section 2 of above Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act,Urban Councils in Northern Province
are hereby empowered to accept these draft By-Laws subject to the provision in the Sub section (2)(a) of section 2 of the
Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act and theUrban Councils in Northern Province are empowered to make By-Laws
containing the provisions comprised in draft By-Laws by sections 94 and 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance Chapter
252 read with section 157 of that Ordinance.
C. V . W
IGNESWARAN,
Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and
Planning,Law and Order, Land, Electricity,
Housing and Construction,Industries and
Enterprise Promotion, Tourism, Local Government and
Chief Minister’s Office, Provincial Administration,Northern Province Provincial Council.
No. 26, Somasundaram Avenue,
Chundukkuli,
Jaffna,
27th January, 2016.
N.B.—  Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary will be published seperately.
1A - PG2824 – 56 (02/2016)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
2A
CHAPTER -1
PART I - STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AT THE MEETING OF THE
COUNCIL OF URBAN COUNCIL
(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the standard by-laws relating to conduct of business at
the meetings of the Urban Council.
(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of making provisions for conducting of
Council meeting according to the procedure and legal guidance.
(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the sub section 157
(1)(a)of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) and 19 to 30 of Urban Councils Ordinance
(4) (i). A general Meeting of the Urban Council shall be held at the Urban Council Office on
a previously specified date and time in each month and there shall be twelve monthly
meetings to be conducted for a year. It shall be conducted on the day in the first week
or closed to first week of each month previously determined by the Chairman. In the
event of such day falling on a day declared as a public holiday under the Holidays Act,
No. 29 of 1971. It shall be considered that such meeting has been decided to be held
on the next working day immediately following such public Holiday and the meeting
shall be held on that day. The instruction shall be given to the Secretary by the Chairman
to send the notice of meeting to all members within the specified time.
(ii). The notification summoning a general meeting or a special meeting of a Urban Council
shall be issued in Tamil or Sinhala in both these languages. The notice of meeting
shall be forwarded by post with the meeting agenda to conduct the meeting to all
members. Further draft meeting minute of previous month meeting also shall be sent
with agenda as per this By-Laws. The secretary shall not refused or make delay to
carry out any instruction given by Chairman as per this By-Laws.  Summons shall be
sent to a special meeting regarding any matter as per the decision of the Chairman or
at the request of two members (at least) of the council. The particular matter specified
in the agenda shall be only discussed at the meeting and no other matters shall be
discussed for some other reason. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to conduct a
special meeting within forthwith at the request according to the above provision.
(iii). A notification on the summoning of a general meeting and on the programme for
each of such meeting shall be delivered to each Member at least four days before the
day of the meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays( As per section
8(3) of the interpretation Ordinance 21 of 1901 ). In case of special meeting it shall
be delivered at least two day before meeting
(iv). In the event of the notification being placed in the premises usually occupied by the
Member to whom it is being directed due to the inability to personally deliver the
notification specified in paragraph (ii) and (iii) due to some reason it shall be
considered that it has been properly delivered.
(v). (a) In the event of a quorum being not available no proceedings shall be made. The
quorum of a general meeting of a Urban Council shall be one third the number of
Members holding office on the date of the meeting. In the event of the one third
of the Membership being a whole number and a fraction the next whole number
higher than this whole number and fraction shall be considered as the one third
for the purposes of this by-law.
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Ordinary Meeting
and Special
Meeting

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(b) In the event of a quorum not being present even after the elapse of half an hour
after the scheduled time of any meeting or any time after the commencement of
the meeting the Chairman shall adjourn the meeting to a date not later than fifteen
days after the particular meeting and considered to be suitable by him. The business
that could have been presented at this adjourned meeting in the event of a quorum
being present shall be presented at the subsequent meeting and suitable action
shall be taken in that regard.
(vi). (a) The Chairman shall adjourn a general or special meeting of the Urban Council
having a quorum from time to time with the consent of the Council. No other
business than that which is left unfinished after being included in the OrderPaper
of the Meeting which has been so adjourned shall be taken up at a subsequent
meeting without the leave of the Council.
(b) Unless it has been decided at the earlier meeting to hold the adjourned meeting
within twenty-four hours, the notification in respect of the adjourned meeting
shall be delivered to the Members at least three days before the Scheduled time
of the particular meeting.
(vii). While all members attending the Council meeting shall enter their names and the time
of arrival in an attendance register maintained by the Secretary and sign it in the
sequence of their arrival the Register shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
(viii). The guest including the media and public shall take seats allocated to them in the
premises where the meeting of council is held .but if it is the declared view arrived at
a majority decision of the members participating in the meeting of council that it is in
the interests of the public to remove them from the council chamber the they shall
leave the chamber when they are called upon to do so by the Chairman of the Council.No
guest shall be connected with the council affairs and no member of the council shall
be name any guest or point him out
(5) The Business of the Meeting shall be conducted in the following sequence:
i. confirm of the Minutes of the previous meeting;
ii. special announcements made by the Chairman;
iii.  presentation of Memorandums, Petitions, Complaints and Communications addressed
to the Urban Council;
iv. questions that have been given due notice of;
v . motions that have been given due notice of;
vi. Presentation of Reports of Committees. Unless the Council decides to consider these
reports then and there the Council shall fix a date to consider them;
vii. presentation and consideration of monthly statements on receipts and expenditure,
progress reports on revenue collected and other documents scheduled to be presented
to the Urban Council;
viii. In the event of notice being given of any other matters in the notification summoning
the Meeting those matters shall be taken up in that sequence or in the sequence decided
upon by the Urban Council on special grounds.
Meeting Agenda

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
4A
(6) (i). The priority and the seniority of the Members of the Council shall be as follows:
(a) Chairman;
(b) Vice Chairman;
(c) in the case of re-election of former Members of the Council the sequence of
their Continual Membership shall be taken as the basis; and
(d) in the case of other Members the priority sequence followed by the Chairman
General of Elections in gazetting their appointments on election shall be followed.
(ii). In the event of the equality of the continual membership of any two or more Members
of the Council indicated in sub section of Section (a) the priority and seniority shall
be taken into consideration on the sequence followed by the Commissioner General
of Elections in gazetting their appointments on their election to the Council at the
latest election.
(iii).  The political parties and independent groups belonging to the sequence of the members
elected in accordance with the Gazette Notification being published by the
Commissioner General of Elections in regard to election of Members to any Urban
Council after the election of members to such Council shall not be relevant to the
purposes of this by-law.
(7) (i). While it is the duty of the Chairman to maintain discipline of the meeting his decision
on all points of order contested by the members shall be final.
(ii). The Chairman shall order on his own opinion or on a point of order raised by any other
member that any member acting in contravention of the provisions of the by-laws in
this part should act according to the by-laws.
(8) Having invited the attention of a member on his conduct when he keeps on repeating irrel-
evant matters or keeps on repeating the arguments put forward by him or other members at the debate
causing concern to the Council, the Chairman shall order such member to stop the speech.
(9) (i).  In respect of members conducting themselves in serious violation of discipline the
Chairman shall order them out of the chambers immediately and to remain outside till
the proceedings of the day are over.
(ii). If the Chairman is of the view at any time that his powers under this by-law are not
sufficient he shall act in accordance with provisions of paragraph (4) of by-law No. 27
in this part.
(10) A member shall at any time move that a debate on any question be suspended. If the motion
is seconded a voting shall be taken immediately. When a serious breach of discipline has been caused at
a meeting the Chairman shall without question put either suspend the proceedings for a duration ordered
by him or adjourn it, if in his opinion it is necessary to suspend the proceedings of the meeting.
(11) The proceedings of the Meetings prepared in accordance with the by-law No. 5 in this part
shall include all matters relevant to the sequence. The proceedings of the meetings shall be conducted in
accordance with the sequence set out in by-law No. 5 unless any other sequence has been approved at any
Meeting.
(12) (i). Secretary shall maintain reports  in record book  in Tamil or Sinhala  of proceedings,
orders and decisions of the Meetings of the Urban Council
(ii). The meeting minute of council standing committee or administrative committee shall
be recorded by Secretary and the Chairman or chair person shall sign the minute.
Further printed minute shall be prepared by the Secretary early as possible.
Seniority  of
Members and
Reservation  of
Seats
Functions of
Chairman (7-11)
Functions of
Council  Secretary
and Meeting
Minutes (12-13)

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iii).  The minute shall contain also names of members who have alternated the meeting and
all discussions made by the council  or the standing or administration committee
(iv). If any member has attended the meeting after the commencement of meeting, the
time of his arrival shall be recorded in the minute.
(v). If any member has left the meeting before the end of the meeting  the time of departure
shall be recorded in the minute
(vi). While the report of each meeting shall be distributed among the Members, the Chairman
shall put the question in the next meeting that it shall be confirmed on the presumption
that it has been read at the Meeting. If there are no protests or rectifications the Report
shall be confirmed as it is. Otherwise, if there are protests or rectifications those
amendments shall be included in the Report. The Chairman shall certify by placing his
signature in the record book as to whether there are no amendments at the end of the
Report or otherwise that the Report has been confirmed subject to amendments
specified in the Report.
(vii). The matters and statements made by the Members at the meeting of the Council shall
not be included in the Council Record book.However, if the Urban Council is of the
view that it would be necessary to be aware of the views or statements made by any
Member at the Council action may be taken to prepare voice recordings of such meeting
or meetings and keep them securely in the Urban Council and also distribute them
among the Members.
(13) While the Member who is not in agreement with any matter, question or motion shall have
the right to get his dissent recorded in the Report of the Council the Secretary shall take action to record
the reasons for the Member’s dissent in the Report of the Proceedings of that Meeting in the event of
such member handing over a written statement on his dissent to the Secretary within one week of the
relevant meeting.
(14) (i). The Urban Council shall transform itself into a committee at any time through a
resolution. However, after the committee returns to the status of the house through a
similar resolution the Council shall take a decision on the consequences of matters
discussed at the committee Stage.
(ii). When any discussion of a Committee of the Council is in progress at any time any
member shall have the right to propose that the Committee should revert back to a
whole house. The Chairman shall put the question to the house and in the event of it
being carried the Council should immediately revert back to the status of a General
Council.
(15) (i). For certain functions of the Council the Urban Council shall appoint from time to
time Consultative Committees consisting of members deemed suitable by the Urban
Councilor consisting of Members and other citizens and   in equal numbers.
(ii). A Consultative Committee appointed in this manner shall not perform some functions
after the elapse of the year in which it was constituted
Committees and
Advisory
committees

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
6A
(iii). The quorum of all meetings of such Consultative Committees shall be one third of the
number of members holding office on the day of that meeting. In the event of one
third of the members being a whole number and a fraction the whole number
immediately above such whole number and the fraction should be considered as the
whole number for the purpose of this by-law.
(iv). When the Chairman of the any Consultative Committee is absent from the meeting
the members present shall elect one of the members as the Chairman of the committee.
Such member shall have all powers vested in the Chairman of that Consultative
Committee.
(v). When a Consultative Committee has extended its consent for some report all the
members shall sign that report, and it shall be presented to the Urban Council together
with the report of that Consultative Committee.
(vi). The press reporters shall not be allowed to witness the proceedings of a Consultative
Committee meeting.
(vii). While the Secretary of the Urban Council shall function as the Secretary of the
Consultative Committee on finances and policies of the Urban Council, it shall be the
duty of the Chairman to appoint some officer of the Urban Council to function as the
Secretary of other Consultative Committees.
(viii). While it shall be the duty of the Secretary to a particular Consultative Committee to
maintain records of the proceedings of each and every Consultative Committee of the
Pradeshiya Sabha, such Committee Reports shall be presented to the subsequent
meeting of the Urban Council
(16)  While all members of a standing committee or special Committee attending the meetings
of such committee shall enter their names, the time of arrival and signature in an attendance register
maintained by the Secretary of the committee and sign it, in the sequence of their arrival, the register
shall be in the custody of the Secretary to the Committee.
(17) The following matters in regard to decisions or agreements arrived at in respect of pro-
ceedings of any Meeting shall be included in the report with each motion or matter
(i). In case of a motion, the contents of such motion;
(ii). The name of the Member proposing the Motion and that of the Seconded;
(iii). The names of Members expressing their views for and against the motion;
(iv). Whether the motion was passed or rejected unanimously; or
(v).  In the event of a division being called for a motion, the following matters in respect
of that motion shall be recorded;
(a) the number and the identity of the Members voting for the Motion,
(b) the number and the identity of the Members voting against the Motion,
(c) the number and the identity of the Members abstaining from voting on the Motion;
(d) the number and identity of the Members present at the Meeting but have left the
Chambers at the time of voting.
(vi). In the event of the sequence of business of the Council being in respect of any other
matter, the decision taken by the Council in regard to such matter.
Proposals (17-18)

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(18) (i). While all notices in regard to presentation of motions shall be in writing the Member
giving notice shall sign it. The Motion shall not be included in the Order Paper unless
it has been in the custody of the Secretary for a period of seven days before the date of
the Meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays.
(ii).  All notices in respect of motions shall be included in the Order paper by the Secretary
in the sequence of their receipt and having entered the date of receipt and serial number.
(iii). While the Chairman shall be presented with any notice in regard to a Motion, before it
is included in the Order Paper, he shall order that it be not included in the Order Paper
if in his opinion it is contrary to rules, and action shall be taken to inform the Member
making the notice about it.
(iv).  Every Motions given notice of shall be in relevant to any question having an impact
on the administration of the activities of the Urban Council.
(v). The presentation of any motion to rescind any Motion approved during the period of
past six months or of any other Motion causing similar consequences results to a
Motion rejected during the past six months shall not be considered as agreeable with
the by-laws of this part, unless a notice has been signed by two Membersin addition to
the Member who proposes that it would be presented and it has been specifically
mentioned in the Order Paper. After suitable action is taken in respect of that Motion
no Member shall have the power to present a similar Motion during the period of next
six months.
(vi). Any Motion shall not be considered as being presented for debate until it is moved
and seconded.
(vii). Any Member rising in his seat and saluting the Chair with a bow may formally second
any Motion or Amendment without prejudice to his right to participate in the debate
subsequently.
(viii). As soon as action has been taken in respect of Motions for which notice has been
given already a member has the right topresent a Motion seeking approval of the Council
to present any Motion for which notice has not been given earlier. However,it should
have been handed over to the Secretary by the member moving the motion having
placed his signature to the motion.
(ix). After a motion has been presented to the meeting and seconded and the debate on it
has been concluded the Chairman shall put the question in regard to approval of the
motion.
(x). Any motion or Amendment presented by any member shall be withdrawn by that member
with the approval of the Council. Approval shall be granted without debate. Unless
granting of approval is rejected after a member presenting any motion asking for such
approval no member shall have the power to speak on that motion.
(xi). Any motion withdrawn earlier shall be presented again at a subsequent Meeting.
However, any motion substantially similar to any motion decided to be accepted or
rejected during the period of past six months as stated in this by-law No. 11 shall not
be presented.
(xii). (a) While all amendments to a Motion shall be presented in writing the member
proposing it shall present the written amendment or amendments to the Secretary.
(b) All amendments to a motion shall be relevant to the motion being discussed for
the time being.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
8A
(c) All amendments to a motion shall be read out to the Council before presentation.
(d) Unless any amendment is seconded it shall not be discussed or presented to the
Council.
(e) A member seconding a motion formally shall have the right to speak on it later.
(f) When an amendment to any motion being discussed has been presented and
seconded, action shall not be taken to present a second or subsequent amendment
until the first amendment is disposed of suitably. If an amendment is approved the
amended motion shall take the place of the original Motion and if there are any
further amendments they shall be amendments in respect of the amended motion.
(19) (i). While the Chairman shall put the question in regard to approval of any matter, question
or motion, it shall be considered to have being approved unanimously unless any
member has not called for a voting on the motion after the question is put to the
Council. However, in the event of any member calling for a voting in regard to the
motion or calling for a secret vote on the matter the Chairman shall take action to
hold a voting.
(ii). When a voting is required in respect of any matter, question or motion in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) above;
(a) the Secretary shall take action to hold the voting by noting down the preference
of each Member having inquired about it separately in accordance with the priority
sequence of the Members indicated in by-law No. 6, when the voting  is not a
secret vote, or
(b) When the voting is held by secret voting, the Secretary shall take action to count
the votes cast by each member who has noted their preference in a ballot paper
issued to them separately.
(iii). At the conclusion of the voting taken by the Secretary in any manner set out in paragraph
(ii) above, the Chairman shall announce the approval arrived at by the Urban Council
in respect of the particular matter, question or motion.
(iv). When any question is put to the Urban Council or to a Committee of the whole House,
the Members present shall vote for or against the question, unless they abstain from
voting.
(v). In the event of a Member abstaining from voting when a voting is called the Secretary
shall take action to record his name as a member who has abstained from voting.
(vi). While the Chairman shall have an original vote with the other Members at the Meetings
of the Council or at meetings of acommittee of the whole House in respect of any
matter, question or motion, in case of equality of votes taken on any motion he shall
have a casting vote as well.
(20)  Members whose services have been suspended under paragraph (i) of By-Law No. 27 or
who have been ordered out of the chambers under paragraph (iv) of By-Law No. 27 shall leave the cham-
ber immediately.
(21)  The following rules shall strictly be adhered to when speeches are made in regard to any
matter considered by the Urban Council or by a committee of the whole House.
(i). While every member should address the Chairman when speaking at a meeting, he
shall be on his feet except when participating in committee Stage debates.
V oting Procedure
Duties of
members(20-21)

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii). Unless a member speaking violates the provisions of the by-laws in this part he shall
not be interrupted.
(iii). Any member shall resume his seat after making the speech. There after any other
member wishing to speak shall address the Council.
(iv). A member shall not read out a prepared speech. However, he shall quote from written
or printed articles in order to prove his arguments.
(v). In case of two members wishing to speak at the same time at a meeting the Chairman
shall ask the member who caught his attention first to speak.
(vi). Every member shall limit his observations to the subject under discussion only.
(vii). No member shall impute undesirable motives to any other Member.
(viii). All speeches of private nature shall be avoided
(ix). A member shall speak on the question before the Urban Council or on any amendment
of the question.
(x). No member shall speak more than once in regard to a matter before the Council except
when it is required to make an explanation a point or order or when the Council has
transformed into a Committee.
(xi). Even in the absence of a question before the Council a member shall make an
explanation of private nature with the approval ofthe Council. However, while the
explanation should be limited to absolving his conduct, no debate shall be allowed on
the matter
(xii). A member moving any motion shall have the right to reply after all the members present
have been given the opportunity of expressing their views on the motion and before
the question is put to the House. However, while his speech should be limited to
replying the speakers who has participated in the debate he shall not present new facts.
The mover of any amendment shall not have the opportunity of replying any further.
(22) (i). Questions pertaining to the activities of the Council shall be put to the Chairman.
(ii). Notice of at least seven working days, excluding Sundays and Public Holidays shall be
given in respect of any question.
(iii). A written reply to each question shall be read out by the Chairman at the Meeting of
the Council.
(iv). While a Member shall not address the Council on any question the terms contained in
any question shall not constitute any argument, or imputation of any motive or
expression of any view or matter rather than limiting to explaining the question
involved.
(v). Any Member shall raise a supplementary question for the purpose of getting further
explanation in regard to a matter or incident on which a reply has been given at a
Meeting. However, the Chairman shall not allow raising of such question if in his
opinion any supplementary question may violate the provisions set out above in this
by-law and on any such occasion the relevant supplementary question shall not be
included in the record of the Council meeting
Questions and
Answers

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
10A
(23) (i). Any Member presenting a petition or memorandum to the Council shall briefly explain
the objective of the petition or the memorandum.
(ii).  Any Member shall not present to the Council any petition, or memorandum or any
other communication not being writtenin a respectable tone and not containing the
name and address of the person writing it.
(iii). Any member shall propose that a petition or memorandum be read out to the Council.
When the proposal is made he shall briefly state the reasons as to why it is expected to
read out the particular document.
(iv). While no debate shall be allowed on the motion no member shall speak on the petition
or the memorandum rather than formally seconding the motion.
(v). When the motion is seconded the question shall be put as to whether the relevant
petition or the memorandum should be read out.
(vi). No members shall submit (proposal) any petition which have already (proposal)
submitted at the council by other member.
(vii). It shall be lawful for a member to propose that a petition or memorandum presented
to the Urban Council shall be directed to the Chairman for suitable action or to a
Committee for report on final action to be taken in this regard.
(viii). Administrative committee shall consist of three members.
(ix). Administrative committee shall inquire and submit the inquiry report the general
meeting of the council.
(x). The council shall function as administrative committee  and inquiry report shall be
discussed and discussion  shall be taken stun
(xi). In the event of any action being taken to examine the testimony of any witnesses the
petitioner or the member requiring such witnesses shall forward to the Secretary a
list containing the names, addresses and vocations of such witnesses at least three day
before the Scheduled date of the inquiry and the Secretary shall inform the witnesses
in writing to present themselves for the inquiry.
(xii). Action shall be taken by the Secretary to hand over the summons or to the reached
before three days of the date and time of arrival to witnesses
(xiii). The inquiry proceeding of the petition shall be completed within three months from
the date of 1
st discussion of the petition
(24)  While a member raising a point of order should take his seat after raising the matter, no
other member shall speak on the matter without approval of the Chairman until the question is resolved by
the Chairman. Thereafter, the member who has been addressing the Council at the time the question was
raised shall have the right to continue with his speech if he is in agreement with the decision of the
Chairman, of the Council or the Committee of the Council. If he is not in agreement with the decision the
Chairman shall deny him the opportunity of continuing with the speech.
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Tasks not to be
carried out (24-27)

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(25)  The Urban Council shall censure or act as it considers suitable in respect of a Member who
has not made an explanation in regard to unsuitable words used by him or who has not withdrawn such
words or who had not expressed his regret in using such words in a manner acceptable to the Council.
(26)  When the Chairman expresses his desire to speak the member on his feet at that moment
shall take his seat.
(27) (i). The Chairman shall name a member who violates the provisions of the by-laws in this
part by disregarding the authority of the Chair or purposely interrupting the proceedings
over and over again. On a motion presented by some member or by the Chairman to
the effect that “the Urban Council Service of that Member shall be suspended” the
Chairman shall put the question immediately. Such motion shall not be allowed to be
amended, adjourned or debated.
(ii).  If the Council service of any member were to be suspended under this by-law as a
result of the approval of any such motion,the suspension shall be effective for duration
of one month at the first instance, two months at the second and three months at the
third or subsequent instances.
(iii).  Unless a number of members present at a meeting have collectively disregarded the
authority of the Chairman no more than onemember shall be named at a time.
(iv). In the event of any member whose Council service has been suspended under this by-
law or a number of members actingcollectively, rejecting at any time during the course
of such suspension, the acceptance of the orders made by the Chairman ofa
meeting to leave the chambers they shall be reported to the Minister by the
Chairman for suitable action having named themas members who have not carried out
his decision.
(28)  In this part, unless the context otherwise requires –
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of  Urban Council
“Chairperson of Meeting” means the Chairman presiding over meetings of the Council for the
time being or the Vice Chairman of the Council who takes the Chair in his absence and it also
includes any other member elected on the vote of the members for the Chair in the absence
of both the Chairman and the Vice Chairman.
“Commissioner General of Elections” means the Commissioner General of the Elections Com-
mission and it also includes the returning Officer of relevant Urban Council.
“V oice Recordings” means a tape where voice recordings are made mechanically and it
includes a compact disc where voice can be recorded or any other instrument where data can
be stored.
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
12A
PART II -STANDARD BY - LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE AND
CONTROL OF HAIR DRESSING SALOONS, BARBER SHOPS AND BEAUTY CENTRES WITHIN THE
AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,
control and supervise of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centres within the area of
authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section
157 (9) (i) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center by
the Chairman of Urban Council, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition
(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3meters in height
(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres from
floor level.
(v). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi). The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall beat
least  2.5meters from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1
metre.
(vii). The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place
where the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.
(viii). Provide sufficient sitting space to any customer arriving at the premises expecting
service on the basis of at least 1.5 meters away from the place where the customer
getting service is located.
(ix). There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if
water is used in providing services to customers
(x). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the
constructed well.
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-25)

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(xi). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately
for males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons
(xii). The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated from
the buildings used as a residence.
(xiii). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xiv). Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building
(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under section 5 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7) All those who have obtained licence under the by-laws in this part shall wash the floor of the
licensed premises with disinfectants at least once in one month.
(8) At the licensed premises, sufficient water supply during the entire period when they are
opened for the customers.
(9) At the licensed premises, enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a
sufficient number of utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils used shall
be provided
(10) Wash basins with facilities to wash hands and soap or liquid soap shall be provided for the
use of employees when they are providing services at the licensed premises.
(11) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colours (not in
dark colors) shall be provided for the use of the customers
(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle with a tight lid to collect cut hair and other
waste shall be kept
(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event of
electrically controlled instruments are used.
(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box containing sufficient amount of first aid instru-
ments and drugs as prescribed by the Urban Medical Officer of Health shall be kept.
(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient  number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner as
to be readily available to customers  and employees
(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed centre —
(i). engage in their service daily only after a bath or body wash ;
(ii). maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition ;
(iii). keep their nails cut and without any dirt, and
(iv). Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
14A
(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,
(i). instruments used in the licensed centre are sterilized after each use ;
(ii). brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day ;
(iii). Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use.
(18) The licensee shall ensure —
(i). that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each
customer obtaining service at the licensed centre are put into a receptacle having
being collected by sweeping or through electrically operated mechanism ; and
(ii).  that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after use
of each customer.
(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of
cut hair are dumped in a pit at least one metre below the ground level at the end of daily activities or if
necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure that precau-
tionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.
(20)  In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner
set out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Urban Council scavenging
vehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management programme of the Urban Council
(21)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle
used to collect waste material produced at the licensed centre.
(22)  List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop
(23)  While every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employees
who are working at  the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of that
register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.
(24)  Every licensee of  a Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keep
affixed a board with his name and the words “Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty
Centre” legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside of
his premises.
(25)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place  to a medical
test at least once a year
(26)  No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within the
authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she has a valid licence for the purpose of that, issued by
the Chairman
(27) (i). Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall
not keep or causes to keep any pet.
(ii). No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for
washing clothes.
Tasks not to be
carried out(26 –
34)

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(28) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been  recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of the licensed
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii). No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed  place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(29)  The interior of a premises issued with a licence under the by-laws in this part shall not be
used in the night or in the day time as a place for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall be
allowed to do so.
(30)  The use of,
(i). any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(ii). alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, in
respect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises
(31)  The licensee in any licensed centre shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel
that is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.
(32)  Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be
pursued in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the licence issued under the provisions of
the by-laws in this part.
(33)  No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except
into a spittoon provided for that purpose.
(34)  No licensee shall use any articles banned by SriLankan Law or Medical Officer of Health
of Urban Council at licensed premises.
(35)  In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Barber Shop and beauty centre
is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-
Laws set out in this part the Chairmanor Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said
licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the pre-
scribed position before a specified date.
(36) (i). Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run
any  Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centres.
(ii). Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the licence  fees for Hair
Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centres  shall be the duty of  Chairman as
specified in above sub section (i)
(37)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(38)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31
st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
Function of the
Local Authority
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
16A
(39) (i). The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii). It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the provisions,
to the Chairman or an Authorized officer for inspection, and shall not make obstacle to
stop such inspection.
(40) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No 35 in these By- Laws, shall act
as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the
Chairman or anAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of
extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to cancel the licence issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 40 in these By-Laws fails to act
as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
anAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of  Urban Council
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the  hair dressing saloon, Barber Shop and beauty centre and person who is responsible for
management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this
place.
“Means place for which is issued license to take all” licensed premise measure under this Provsion.
“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make
business or product at the specified place.
“apron” means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining
service from the licensed centre.
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (39-41)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
SCHEDULE -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centres within the
area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Business Centre :-
2. Place of the Business Centre:-
(i). Ward No.:-
(ii). Assessment No.:-
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Permanent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv). NIC No.:-
(v). T elephone No.:-
(vi). e-mail Address:-
4. (i). Date of Beginning the Business
(ii). Name of the manager of the meat Stall:
(iii). Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
(i). Name of the Owner:
(ii). Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Y es/No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
18A
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                 Date  Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
 Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date Chairman/AuthorizedOfficer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:……………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:…………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
……………………………….  …………………………………………
                         Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chairman/AuthorizedOfficer

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
20A
PART III - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND
ADMINISTRATE OF THE CREMATORIUMS OF THE URBAN COUNCIL AND CHARGING FEES WITHIN
THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-laws in this part may be cited as the standard By-Laws relating to regularize and control
of the crematoriums of the Urban Council and charging fees.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation  and Public health,public
utilities services for the people residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban
Councils Ordinance and maintaining and managing of immovable property
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the Sub section
157(9) (e) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Anybody expecting to obtain a licence mentioned in By-law No. 8(hereinafter referred to as
“the applicant”) shall forward an application substantially prepared in accordance with the Second Sched-
ule to this part together with the documents mentioned below to the Chairman or the Authorized Officer.
(i). (a) The birth certificate of the applicant, or
(b) The birth certificate of the deceased, or
(c) The marriage certificate of the applicant, or
(d) The certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the Division where the deceased
was living, in order to facilitate the establishment of the relationship between the
deceased and the applicant;
(ii). If an inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code Act No. 15 of 1979 had been made in
respect of the death of the deceased, the certificate issued by the Magistrate or the
Inquirer-into-Sudden Deaths under paragraph 41(e) of the Registration of Births and
Deaths Ordinance giving permission to cremate the dead body or the certificate issued
under paragraph 43(b) of the Registration of Birth and Deaths Ordinance, in the event
of the dead body being of a still born person, and
(iii). The death certificate of the deceased
(5)  Dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation and cremations shall be done between the
periods 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. on all days of the week. If there is any cremation of a corpse in other time
shall be obtained a special license from the Chairman or an Authorized Officer. The maximumnumber of
corpse which can cremate per day shall be decided by the Urban Council and shall notice on a notice
boardof the crematorium.
(6) (i). The applicant or any authorized representative of him shall take possession of the
ashes of the body before the elapse of seventy two hours after the cremation of any
dead body.
(ii). However, on a written request made by the applicant the Chairman or the Authorized
Officer shall extend the period during which the ash are is kept with the Crematorium
Keeper.
(iii). The period of extension for the ash to be kept in the custody of the Crematorium
Keeper under paragraph (ii) of By-Law No 6 shall not be more than six weeks from
the date of the cremation.
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-7)

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iv). The Chairman or an Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper shall have the power
to dispose of the ash that has not been removed even after the expiry of such period
allowed for the removal of ashes.
(v). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to
bury the ash not removed by any applicant or any authorized representative at the
premises of the crematorium or in any cemetery.
(7) Notwithstanding anything stated in By-Law No-12
(i). any other person or persons who participate in the handing over of a dead body for
cremation with the person who has obtained a licence to cremate it or with his authorized
representative; and
(ii). any other person or persons who arrive at the crematorium on the specified date or
earlier to receive ash, with the person who has obtained the licence or with his authorized
representative,shall be considered as persons who have been allowed to enter the
premises of the crematorium
(8) (i). No dead body shall be cremated in any crematorium owned by the Council without a
licence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
(ii). It shall be able to discontinue the cremation a corpse permitted by a formal licence
within the permitted time period only by a written order of the court or in-charge
police officer. The Urban Council will not responsible to offer an extra time for
allocated time or repay the charges for that, and there is no any right to the applicant
for request.
(9)  Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer in to Sudden Deaths has granted permission to cremate a
dead body on completion of an inquiry made in respect of it by the said Magistrate or the Inquirer into
Sudden Deaths, under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979, the Chairman or the Authorized
Officer shall not accept it for cremation or issue a licence to cremate it.
(10)  Unless the relevant crematorium of the Urban Council has been named in the 7th column
of the Death Certificate of a deceased, under “cause of Death and the place of the burial or cremation’ the
Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall not accept the dead body for cremation or issue a licence to
cremate it.
(11)  Nobody other than the Crematorium Keeper or his Assistants shall enter into the covered
section of the chamber of the Crematorium after the closure of the security door of the chamber on
introducing the dead body into the chamber of any crematorium
(12)  Nobody shall enter into the premises of any crematorium without permission from the
Chairman or an Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper.
(13)  Within the premises of any crematorium nobody shall, -
(i). act in a manner disrupting peace ;
(ii). damage or try to damage property within the premises of the crematorium belonging
to the Urban Council ;
(iii). obstruct the of ficial functions of the Crematorium Keeper or any of his Assistants;
(iv). decorate or paste notices within the premises of the crematorium.
Tasks not to be
carried out (8 –
13)

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
22A
(14)  In the event of a decision being arrived at to issue a licence on an application made for
permission to cremate a dead body, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer to
register the death in the sequence such applications are received in a Register substantially prepared
according to the Third Schedule to this part. This Register shall be maintained at the Office of the Urban
Council accepting applications.
(15)  In the event of accepting any dead body for cremation in accordance with the application
forwarded, the applicant shall be issued with the permit by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer after
charging the fees levied according to By-law No. 20. The time and the date on which the dead body due to
be cremated according to the permit should be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper shall be clearly
specified in the relevant permit.
(16)  In the event of a dead body being not accepted for cremation due to some reason the
Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall take steps to immediately inform the applicant in writing about
it, specifying the reasons for such non-acceptance.
(17)  The Crematorium Keeper shall maintain a Register substantially prepared in accordance
with the Fourth Schedule to this part, in regard to each dead body cremated in any crematorium.
(18)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to maintain and operate the
crematoriums in conditions suitable for cremation of dead bodies;
(19)  The Urban Council has the right to burn or bury the corpse or a part of the corpse respect-
fully when there is a technical defect of crematorium during the cremation of a corpse and unable to
recover within short period.
(20)  In the event of the closure of any crematorium for the purpose of repairs or maintenance
activities it shall be the duty of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer to display prominently a notice on
it in all the three languages at the Office issuing licence for cremation of dead bodies and at the entrance
to the crematorium premises.
(21) (i). While it is possible to determine by Resolution approved by the Secretary the charges
for the cremation of a dead body it shall be amended from time to time on such approval
of a Resolution.
(ii). While charges levied or amended from time to time under paragraph (i) above shall be
published in the Gazette it shall be prominently displayed at the place where applications
are received for booking the crematorium and at the crematorium.
(iii). The charges for the cremation of a dead body shall be levied under the classification
set out in the First Schedule of this part.
(22)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(23)  The dead body shall be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper on or before the time
specified in the licence issued. The Urban Council, the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall not be
subjected to responsibility in respect of any inconvenience or loss caused to the applicant or anybody
else having rights over the deceased due to the failure to handover the dead body on time.However the
licence  issued shall be valid on that day only
(24)  The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at the crematium
Function of the
Urban Council(14 -
20)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(25)  Permit holder or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(26)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(27)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(28) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected asChairman by the provisions of the Local Authori-
ties Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Cremation chamber” means the chamber where the dead body is kept and the outer
“Crematorium premise” means the whole crematorium and the land on which it is located.
“Crematorium keeper” means any employee appointed by the Council to be in-charge of the
crematorium and its functions.
“Ash” means any matter left behind after cremating a dead body.
“Dead body” means the entire dead body of a deceased person or the dead body of a still born
person or any part of a dead body.
FIRST SCHEDULE
BY-LAW No. 20(iii)
FEES FOR USE OF THE CREMATORIUM
Rs. cts.
(1) To cremate the dead body of an adult living in the area of authority. ……….
(2) To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult living in the area of authority ……….
(3) To cremate the dead body of an adult living outside the area of authority. ……….
(4) To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult, living outside the area of authority……….
(5) To cremate the dead body of an adult of a Samurdhi family living in the area of authority ……….
(6) To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult of a Samurdhi family living
in the area of authority ……….
A child below the age of 12 years is considered here as a person who is not an adult.
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
24A
SECOND  SCHEDULE
BY-LAW No.4
(To be forwarded in duplicate)
FrontPage
APPLICATION  FOR  A  LICENCE  TO  CREMATE  A  DEAD  BODY  AT  THE  CREMATORIUM  OF …
… … … … URBAN  COUNCIL
(1) Full name of the applicant: - … … … … … … … … … …
Address: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … …
Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: - … …
(2) Full Name of the deceased: - … … … … … … … … … …
Sex: - … … … … …
Address of the residence: - … … … … … … … … … … …
Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: - … …
National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … …
(3) Applicant’s relationship to the deceased: - … … … … …
(Please annex a certificate stated in paragraph (i) of By-law No. 4 in order to establish the relation-
ship)
(4) Registration No. and Date of the Death Certificate: - … …
(Annex a copy of the Death Certificate)
(5) Name and Division of the Registrar of Deaths: - … … … …
(6) Cause of Death: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(7) In the event of an inquiry being held into the Death:
(8) (Annex the Certificate stated in Paragraph (ii) of By-law No. 4)
Name and Designation of the Inquiring Officer: - … …… …
Date of Inquiry: - … … … … … … … …;
Determination of the Inquiring Officer: - … … … … … …;
Has the Inquiring officer given permission to cremate the dead body?: … … ……… …
(9) Date and time applied for the cremation: - … … … … … …
(According to the sequence of preference)
Date Time Date Time
(i). … … … 20 … … … Hours (iii) … … … 20 … … … Hours
(ii).  … … … 20 … … … Hours (iv) … … … 20 … … … Hours
I hereby certify that the information stated above are true and accurate. I further state that I take full
responsibility for the information given here. Relevant certificates are annexed.
… … … … …
Signature of the Applicant.   Date: … … … 20 … …

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
Second Schedule
Mr./Mrs./Miss … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Sir / Madam
Refusal to issue a licence to cremate a dead body
It is regretted to inform you that the issuing of a licence in accordance with the application overleaf forwarded by you has been
refused for the following reasons:-
(i).  ……………………………………………………………………….
(ii). ……………………………………………………………………….
(iii). ……………………………………………………………………….
(iv). ……………………………………………………………………….
(v). ……………………………………………………………………….
Signature of Chairman/Authorized Officer
(Please affix the official seal).
Date: - … … … … … 20 … …
Crematorium Keeper,
… … … … … … … … Crematorium.
Licence issued to cremate a Dead Body
(a) Permission is hereby granted to cremate the dead body of ………………………. at ………… a.m. / p.m. on ……… 20
………………at the ……………Crematorium.
(b) The information given in the application overleaf has been entered in the Register according to By-law, No. 6.
(c) A sum of Rs. ……………..has been charged through Receipt No………………….dated …… 20………….
(d)  Please take action to cremate the dead body after making necessary entries in the relevant Register as stated in By-
law,No. 11 with reference to information given in this licence.
(e) The Serial Number of the Permit Register is ………………………………..
……………………………….
Signature of the Chairman/Authorized Officer.
(Please affix the Official Seal).
Date: ……………

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
26A
THIRD  SCHEDULE
REGISTER  OF  LICENCES  ISSUED  TO  CREMATE  DEAD  BODIES  AT  THE  CREMATORIUM  OF … … … …
… … … … … … … … … … … … … URBAN   COUNCIL
Serial No.
Name of the Deceased
NIC No.
Sex
Date of Death
No.
Date
Name
Relationship to the Deceased
Address
NIC No.
Reference No.
Date
Permit
No.
Amount Rs.
Allotted Date
Allotted time
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
Death
Certificate
Registration
Applicants
Order of the Magistrate/
Inquirer-into- Sudden Deaths
Receipts
Cremation

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
FOURTH  SCHEDULE
REGISTER ON DEAD BODIES CREMATED AT THE CREMATORIUM  AT
………………………………………..URBAN COUNCIL
Serial No.
Name of the Deceased
NIC No.
Sex
Date of Death
No.
Date
Name
NIC No.
Permit
No.
Amount  Rs.
Date of removal of ashes
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
Death
Certificate
Registration
Applicants
Receipts

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
28A
Chapter 2
PART I-STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND
MONITOR OF EATING-HOUSES, RESTAURANTS, TEA OR COFFEE SHOPS AND SIMILAR SHOP
WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in rel,ating to formulate, regularize,
monitor and control of eating-houses, restaurants and tea or coffee shop or similar shop within the area
of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section
157(9) (h) and (9) (m) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordi-
nance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The license shall be issued to any eating-house, restaurant and tea or coffee shop or similar
shop by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Urban Council, if only the following specified conditions
are duly fulfilled.
(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition
(ii) W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height
(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other
rooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal
sheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres from
floor level.
(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 meter
(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the
bins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into
them.
(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 11
Name of  By-
Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-
Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-17)

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(xi) Each table  kept in licensed place for use of consumers and  in the kitchen,
(a) when the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
(b) when the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall
be painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished
impermeable  material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be
obtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as  the Quality
Certificate  has been obtained.
(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures
shall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately
for males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories
shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a
manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone
or any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While
the walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The
floor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) respect of lavatories of this By
-Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms, as well.
(xviii) Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room shall be made
in safe manner by pipe line.
(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay
and polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.
(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xxi) In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the
constructed well.
(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
30A
(xxiii) At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are
prepared shall have been covered with joint less and –stainless metal sheets or tiles or
with any impermeable material.
(6)  It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7)  The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8)  The drains carrying waste water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed
with water at least twice daily.
(9)  Bathrooms and lavatories in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and sprayed with disin-
fectants twice a day. Further they shall be maintained without unpleasant smell.
(10)  The licensee shall ensure that every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation
of food, exhibition, sale and the use of the customers in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean
water before use and after use as well.
(11)  The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
12 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day if
necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or
removed.
(12) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows :
a) Bio-degradable wastes;
b)  Glass;
c) Paper or paper related materials;
d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;
e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(13)  Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects
and it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(14)  Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(15)  Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be pro-
vided with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(16)  It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush
and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(17)  It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(18)  No person shall run an eating-house, restaurant and tea or coffee shop or similar shops
within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she has a valid permit for the purpose of that,
issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(19) (i). Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in
any unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
(ii). Any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses
or residence living closely.
(20)  The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there
of the land or anywhere else in the premises.
(21) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been  recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii). Person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized place,
unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(22)  Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No 24
(23) (i).  No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products not
contained the minimum compositional requirements of as per the annexure 1 shown
below accordance with the food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Srilanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food act No 26 of 1980.
(ii). Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products  unfit for
human consumption.
(24)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any
kind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(25)  In the event of the premises where any eating place, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop or
similar shop is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law
set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said
licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the pre-
scribed position before a specified date.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(18 – 23)
Function of the
Urban Council
(24 - 25)

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
32A
Charges and
fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (29 –
32)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of By-
laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition
(26)  Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, the Secretary has the authority
to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated torun eating-houses, restaurants, tea
or coffee shops and similar shops.
(27)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council.
(28)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(29)  The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(30)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
Authorized officer.
(31)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 25, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days.
(32)  The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when any
licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law 31 fails to act as stipulated in the notice on or
before the specified date.
(33)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(34)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(35)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if
convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable
to the penalties in terms of Section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in
case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the
jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).
(36)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires.
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Council Chairman by the provisions of
the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils
for Urbanity.

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
“Eating-house or restaurant” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for
sale or kept for display or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are
prepared and kept for sale or display.”
“Tea or coffee shop” means, a place is maintain to prepare tea, coffee or similar drinks for sale
with bakery products or other short eats or without foods.
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make
business or product at the specified place.
Annexure  -01
Compositional Requirements of Milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat Milk solids other than
minimum percent milk fact minimum
percent
1.Buffalo Row, pasteurised 7.0 9.0
or sterilised
2. cow Do 3.5 8.5
3. Standardised Pasteurised or sterilised 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do 2.0 8.5
5. Flavoured Do 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do - 8.5

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
34A
SCHEDULE -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting Eating-houses, Restaurants, Tea
or Coffee shops and similar shops within the area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Business centre:-
2. Place of the Business centre:-
(i). W ard No.:-
(ii). Assessment No.:-
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Permanent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv). NIC No.:-
(v). T elephone No.:-
(vi). e-mail Address:-
4. (i). Date of Beginning
(ii). T ype of business:
(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:
(iv). Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
   i.  Name of the Owner:
  ii.  Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-         Yes:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions
in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
36A
For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ……………………………….                                 …………………………………………
                         Date                                                                      Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
……………………………….                                     …………………………………………
                         Date                                                                                         Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
PART II - STANDARD BY-LAWS RELA TING TO FORMULA TE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND MONITOR
HOTELS WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,
control and monitor hotels within the area of authority of Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the Sub section 157
(9)(h) and (9)(m) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The licence shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Urban
Council, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the regulations no-
ticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No 41 of 1978.
(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii). W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other
rooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal
sheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from
floor level.
(v). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 meter.
(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii). Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the
bins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into
them.
(ix). The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other
animals getting into them.
(x). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.
(xi). Each table  kept in licensed place for use of consumers and  in the kitchen,
a) when the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.
Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeable
material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.
Name of By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Law
Tasks to be
executed (4-19)

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
38A
b) when the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shall
be painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polished
impermeable  material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.
(xii). A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to be
obtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as  the Quality
Certificate  has been obtained.
(xiii). If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures
shall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xiv). A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.
(xv). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately
for males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories
shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a
manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xvi). The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone
or any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While
the walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The
floor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xvii). Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of this
By -Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.
(xviii). Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room shall be made
in safe manner by pipe line.
(xix). Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay
and polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.
(xx). A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xxi). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the
constructed well.
(xxii). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xxiii). At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks are
prepared shall have been covered with joint less and stainless metal sheets or tiles or
with any impermeable material.

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(xxiv). All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square metres for one person (2 m length X 2m width).
Further, an almyrah or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keep
towel or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(6)  It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7)  The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying waste
water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
(8)  Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedspreads, pillow
covers, blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to
be provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely opened
at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there shall be
at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air condition in
operation.
(9)  Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, and
identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to allow it, to
be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.
(10)  It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every
room, stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(11)  Latrines and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with disinfec-
tants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating odour. However, it may be
considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which customers are stay-
ing once a day.
(12)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items or
implements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to be
consumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after using.
(13)  The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
No 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day if
necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or
removed.
(14) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows :
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
40A
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman.
(15)  Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects
and it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept there
and food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.
(16)  Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or any
other instruments shall be used to serve food.
(17)  Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be pro-
vided with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee
to ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety
materials when they are on duty.
(18)  It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush
and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(19)  It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(20)  No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(21)  No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom.
(22)  The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with
the minimum space specified in paragraph (xxiv) of By Law 5
(23)  No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.
(24)  The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and there
of the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified.
(25) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been  recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed
(ii). No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(26) (i). Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve in
any unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.
(ii). any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or
making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses
or residence living closely.
Tasks not to be
carried out( 20 –
29)

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(27)  Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No 30
(28) (i). No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products not
contained the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown below
accordance with the food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food act, No. 26 of 1980.
(ii). Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit for
human consumption.
(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i). more than one bed in a single bedroom
(ii). more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom
(iii). more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom,
and
(iv).  more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds
or five single beds in a  family room.
Further, in respect of any hotel the licence shall not allow more than one person to
sleep in a single room or more than two in a double room or more than three in triple
room. However, when the age of the anybody sleeping in any room that person is
below 12 years shall not be considered as one person for purpose of this section.
(30)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any
kind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise
(31)  In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a licence issued, any
licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Urban Authorized Officer shall take
action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to re-
store the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(32)  Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance,  the Secretary has the authority
to charge for  licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated   to run hotels
(33)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council.
(34)  The validity of every licence issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31st
December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(35)  The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(36)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
any Authorized officer.
(37)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 31, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days.
Function of the
Urban Council
(30 – 31)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
licence or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (35-38)

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
42A
(38)  The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when any
licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated
in the notice on or before the specified date.
(39)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(40)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws
shall be an offence.
(41)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).
(42)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils
for Urbanity.
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Urban Development Authority “ means, the Urban Development Authority constituted under
urban Development Law No. 41 of 1978.
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make
business or product at the specified place.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of this by law of the
hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under this
provision.
“Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for display
or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept for
sale or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;
“Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two double
beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
“Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
Law
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
“Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
“Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one bed.
“Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed and
a mattress ;
”Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one
mattress and a bed ;
Annexure  - 01
Compositional Requirements of Milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other
percent  than milk fact
minimum percent
1.Buffalo Row, pasteurised or sterilised 7.0 9.0
2. cow Do 3.5 8.5
3. Standardised Pasteurised or sterilised 3.25 8.25
4. Toned Do 2.0 8.5
5. Flavoured Do 2.0 7.2
6. Skimmed Do - 8.5
SCHEDULE -01
Application For Business tax / Licence 20..  for conducting Hotel within the area of
authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Business centre:-
2.Place of the Business centre:-
i. Ward No.:
ii. Assessment No.:
iii. Name of the Road/Street:
iv. GN Division No. & Name:

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
44A
3. Name of the Applicant:-
i. Full Name:-
ii. Permanent Address:-
iii. GN Division No. & Name:-
iv. NIC No.:
v . Telephone No.:
vi. e-mail Address
4. i. Date of Beginning:
ii. Type of business:-
iii. Name of the manager of the Business Centre / Agent name:
iv. Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
i. Name of the Owner:
ii. Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes :No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
7. The number of:
i. Single rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
ii. Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
iii. T riple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
iv. Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
v . All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
9. Toilets :
(i). The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii). The number of toilets for female employees:… … …
(iii). The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv). The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
10. Bathrooms:
(i). The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii). The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …
13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I, agree to comply with the provisions
in the By Law. I, apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue Branch,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
46A
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Off icer of Health
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ……………………………….                                 …………………………………………
                         Date                                                                      Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
……………………………….                                     …………………………………………
                         Date                                                                                         Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the
Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the
License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
……………………………….                                     …………………………………………
                         Date                                                       Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 47 -->

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
Name of By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-14)
PART III- STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND MONITOR
LODGING HOUSES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,
control and monitor lodging houses within the area of authority of Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the Sub section 157
(9)(e) of Urban Council Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Council Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The licence shall be issued to run any lodge by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Urban
Council, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the regulations no-
ticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978.
(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.
(ii). W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other rooms
which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheets
and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to these provisions.
(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3.0 metres
from floor level.
(v). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.
(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 meter.
(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii). Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the
bins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into
them.
(ix). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law 12.
(x). A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be obtained at
least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as  the Quality Certificate  has
been obtained.

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
48A
(xi). If the water is stored for the use of licensed place, adequate protective measures shall
be taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xii). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately
for males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories
shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such a
manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(xiii). The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone
or any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While
the walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. The
floor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.
(xiv). Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at the
licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xiii) respect of lavatories of these
By-Laws shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms, as well.
(xv). Facilities, to supply water that is used at licensed premise to each room, shall be made
in safe manner by pipeline.
(xvi). Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using section
of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay
and polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.
(xvii). A suitable system of drain shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises.
(xviii). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metre away from the
constructed well.
(xix). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(xx). All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers and
employees, shall be at least 04 square metres for one person (2 m length X 2m width).
Further, an almyrah or cabinet to keep clothes, a bar made by wood or metal to keep
towel or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attached
bathrooms shall be there.
(xxi). Licensed premises shall have a separate room as a kitchen with an efficient outlet for
smoke.
(6)  It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

<!-- page 49 -->

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(7)  Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedspreads, pillow
covers, blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before to
be provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely opened
at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there shall be
at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air condition in
operation.
(8)  While every licensed premise shall maintain a register to note the address and identify of
each person coming to say overnight in the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow
inspection of that register when it is so requested by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(9) (i). It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean every
room, stairs, drains and the premises before noon every day.
(ii). The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying
waste water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at
least twice daily.
(10) Latrines and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with disinfec-
tants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating odor. However, it may be con-
sidered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which customers are staying
once a day.
(11) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
No 12 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or
removed.
(12) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows :
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(13)  It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(14)  It is the responsibility of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail
brush and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
50A
(15)  No person shall run a lodge within the  authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she
has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(16)  No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as
bedroom.
(17)  The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply with
the minimum space specified in paragraph (xx) of  By-Law No 5.
(18)  In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of
(i). more than one bed in a single bed room
(ii). more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bed room
(iii). more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bed room,
and
(iv).  more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single beds
or five single beds  in a  family room. Further, in respect of any lodge the licensee
shall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single room or more than two in a
double room or more than three in triple room and so on. However, when the age of
the anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be considered
as one person for purpose of this section.
(19)  It is duty of the licensee to ensure that any lodging house is not use for illegal activities any
person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or making any unnecessary
noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or residence living closely.
(20)  No animals shall be kept at any licensed premise.
(21)  The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in  then and there
of land  or anywhere else in the premises other than the place as specified.
(22) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of licensed place,
or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii). No person should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized place, unless
they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(23)  In the event of the premises where any lodge is maintained under a licence issued under the
By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or  Authorized Officer
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(24)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the authority
to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated  to run  lodge.
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 15 – 22)
Function of the
Urban Council
Charges and fees

<!-- page 51 -->

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(25)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council.
(26)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Law shall expire on
31
st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.
(27)  The Chairman or the  Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to in-
spect the standards of these By-Law within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(28)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer.
(29)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No 23, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days.
(30)  The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for
the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 29 fails to act as stipu-
lated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(31)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(32)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(33)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).
(34)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
”The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
”Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils
for Urbanity.
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Urban Development Authority “ means, the Urban Development Authority constituted under
Urban Development Authority Law No 41 of 1978.
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers (27-30)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of By-
Law
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
52A
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make
business or product at the specified place.
”Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
of the lodging houses and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the
person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise” means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under this
provision.
“Lodge” or “Lodging house”means, a house or a part of house in which on a payment, lodging is
provided for two or more persons who are not members of the same family but does not
include a hospital or a rest house.
“Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two double
beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;
“Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with a
double bed and one single bed or three single beds ;
“Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or
two single beds.
“Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one
bed ;
“Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed and
a mattress ;
“Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one
mattress and a bed ;
S
CHEDULE - 01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20…. For conducting lodging Houses within the area of
authority of Urban Council
(1) Name of the Business centre:-
(2) Place of Business centre-
(i). Ward No.:
(ii). Assessment No.:
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:
(3) Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Permanent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

<!-- page 53 -->

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iv). NIC No.:
(v). T elephone No.:
(vi). e-mail Address
(4) (i). Date of Beginning:
(ii). T ype of business:-
(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:
(iv). Previous Business:-
(5) If it is rented building,
(i). Name of the Owner:
(ii). Address:-
(6) Whether last year licence was obtained:-                Yes:    No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
(7) The number of:
(i). Single rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(ii). Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….
(iii). T riple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………
(iv). Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……
(v). All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …
(8) The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …
(9) Toilets :
(i). The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii). The number of toilets for female employees:… … …
(iii). The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(iv). The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
(10) Bathrooms:
(i). The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …
(ii). The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …
(11) The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …
(12) Source of water supply: … … … … … …

<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
54A
(13) Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the
provisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the
By Law.
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Off icer of Health

<!-- page 55 -->

55AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector.
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
 Date Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Department
Receipt No:………………………………..                Date of the
Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                 Date of the
License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 56 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
56A
PART IV - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND
MONITOR OF BAKERIES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regular-
ize, control and monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the Sub section
157 (9) (h) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with Section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The licence shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Urban
Council, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.
(i). Premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition whether heat is obtained   by
using firewood, electricity or any other way.
(ii). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(iii). Each room shall be ceiled and applied with white color paint.
(iv). The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.
(v). The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in a
height of three (3) metres from the ground level of the room.
(vi). Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones with
both sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls have
been completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timber
shall be applied with paints.
(vii). All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.
(viii). While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at
least 2.5 metres above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least
1 meter in width.
(ix). A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board in
respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be obtained at
least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as  the Quality Certificate  has
been obtained.
(x). If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measures
shall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.
(xi). Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room, shall be
made in safe manner by pipe line.
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-24)

<!-- page 57 -->

57AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(xii). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metre away from the
constructed well.
(xiii). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.
(xiv). When the bakery requesting a licence is one using wood,
(xv). The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a height
of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.
(a) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removed
from the oven of the bakery shall be supplied.
(b) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.
(c) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.
(xvi). When the bakery requesting a licence is using electricity-
(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall be in a
safe condition, trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage and
leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.
(b) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premises
shall be drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.
(6) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instru-
ments shall have been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery
(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No 5 to have been applied with paints shall be so applied
with paints at least once a year.
(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a month.
(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smooth the
joins shall have been joined leaving no space between the joins. Otherwise they shall be covered with
stainless metal sheets without joints
(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises
to a medical test at least once a year.
(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in proper
maintaining condition.
(12) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safety
materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials after washing
their bodies or bath when they are on duty at the license premises.

<!-- page 58 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
58A
(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By Law
No. 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a month or more than if neces-
sary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or removed.
(14) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(15) A separate room exclusively used for the storage of flour and other ingredients used in the
bakery, shall be maintained. It shall be sufficiently ventilated. It shall be secured against entry of rats, flies
or any other kind of insects.
(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 a rack made of timber on
a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack shall have been
finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover, while the said rack
shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects remaining underneath it, the
structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.
(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken out
and cleaned at least twice a month.
(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately for
males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructed
at a distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of prod-
ucts such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.
(19)  All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to
clean nails and soap or fluid soap.
(20)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronic
balance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under the
provisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any customer the
weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.
(21)  In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall be
the duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of waste
material or water

<!-- page 59 -->

59AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(22)  Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside of
his premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,
Sinhala and English.
(23)  Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized by
the Chairman or Authorized Officer
(24)  Name list (sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman or
Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer
(25)  No person shall run a bakery within the  authority of the Urban Council area, unless having
a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer
(26)  Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakery
products are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of bakery
products at any time.
(27) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been  recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii). Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage
himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premise.
(28)  Unauthorized chemicals and colourings shall not be used for the bakery products.
(29)  While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws in
this part, action shall be taken not to keep or store any other material other than the instruments or
materials used for the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the
employees of the bakery shall not be included to this.
(30)  Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products.
Further, when unground water tank is constructed waste fit or ash fit shall not be constructed a distance of
18 metres.
(31)  No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.
(32)  No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided for
purpose.
(33)  Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 34
(34)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer to
purchase a Sample of any kind of bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for purpose of
INspection at the Licensed premise.
(35)  In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a licence issued under
the By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officer
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
Tasks not to be
carried out(25-33)
Functions of the
Urban Council
(34-35)

<!-- page 60 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
60A
(36)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, Secretary has the authority to
charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated  to run hotels
(37)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(38)  The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(39)  The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-
Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(40)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-
Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(41)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days
(42)  The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for
the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 41 fails to act as stipu-
lated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(43)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(44)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws
shall be an offence.
(45)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(46)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
Charges and fees
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
licence or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers (39-42)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of By-
Law
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 61 -->

61AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
“The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make business or
product at the specified place
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of this by law of the hotel and person
who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of
this place.
“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under this provision.
“Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured in any bakery for
sale or on order placed by any person.
“Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are manufactured and it shall
also include any place where such food prepared or where goods are stored for preparation of such food.
S
CHEDULE -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of authority of Urban
Council
1. Name of the Business centre:-
2. Place of the Business centre:-
(i). Ward No.:-
(ii). Assessment No.:-
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Permanent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv). NIC No.:-
(v). T elephone No.:-
(vi). e-mail Address:-
4.
(i). Date of Beginning
(ii). T ype of business:
(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:
(iv). Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
(i). Name of the Owner:
(ii). Address:-

<!-- page 62 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
62A
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes: No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector

<!-- page 63 -->

63AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… ………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.: ………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.: ……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
…………………………
Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for Signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 64 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
64A
Name of By-laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-6)
tasks should not
be executed
Function of the
Urban Council
( 8-12 )
CHAPTER  3
PART I - STANDARD BY -LAWS RELATING TO FORMULATE, MONITOR AND ADMINISTRATE THE
PUBLIC PLAYGROUND WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,
monitor and administrate Public playgrounds within the area of authority of Urban Council.
(2)  The By-laws in this part are made for the purpose of providing playground facilities to social
development and maintaining and managing of immovable property of the Urban Council within the
Urban Councils limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  These  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section
157(6) (a) (c) and (15) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils
Ordinance
(4)  Any person who expects to obtain a permit to make use of any playground owned by the
Urban Council  shall forward an application that is in schedule – 1
(5)  The permit to make use of any playground owned by the Urban Council shall be issued by the
Chairman or Authorized Officer if only the conditions that are stated in these By-Laws are fulfilled.
(6)  Any person who expects to use the playground shall submit an application to reserve the
playground at least three days before the expected day of such use. Further, the reservation made accord-
ing to the said application shall be subjected to the provisions in By-Law No. 7.
(7) (i). Any person shall not damage or not to allow to damage the playground owned by the
Urban Council, and shall not lead cattle, pigs, horses, ponies, asses, dogs or any other
animals into the playground. Further, any vehicle shall not be taken into any playground
without permission obtained from the Chairman or Authorized Officer
(ii). Any person, shall not be in intoxicated state, shall not misbehave, shall not be after
taking drugs and shall not make nuisance unnecessarily to the outsiders.
(iii). Any person shall not use a reserved playground for any other purpose except the one
which it was reserved for.
(iv). A permit issued for the reservation of a playground shall not be transferred to any
person for any reason.
(v). Permit holder or his representative or user of the playground or spectators or any
person shall not cause any loss to furniture and fittings, electrical equipment, water
supply equipment and any other assets belonging to Urban Council in the playground.
(8) (i). An application for issue of a permit to make use of the playground shall be considered
in the sequence in which that has been received by the Urban Council.
(ii). Priority for the use of the playground shall be given to applications for any sports or
sports related events among the applications received for the use of a playground.

<!-- page 65 -->

65AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(9)  In the event of any applicant needing the cancellation of the reservation of any playground,
after it has been reserved under the provisions of the By-Laws, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall
allow such cancellation, subject to the following conditions.
(i). When the application for cancellation of reservation is forwarded,
(a) A Three months prior to the date on which the playground has reserved, five
percent of the fees paid,
(b)  Two months prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, ten
percent of the fees paid,
(c) One month prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, fifteen
percent of the fees paid,
(d) Fifteen days prior to the date on which the playground  has been  reserved, twenty
five     percent of the fees paid,
(e) Seven days prior to the date on which the playground  has been  reserved, fifty
percent of the fees paid,
(f) Three days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, seventy
five  percent of the fees paid, shall not be refunded from Urban Councils fund.
(ii). When the application for cancellation of the reservation is forwarded in a period of
time less than three days to the date on which the playground was reserved the fees
paid shall not be refunded fully.In the event of cancelling any reservation, the applicant
shall have the right to get the full refund of security deposit for such reservation.
(10)  When an application forwarded for the reservation of a playground by any person is re-
jected it is the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to inform the applicant in writing early as
possible on the day of such application itself or within the reasonable period, for such rejection.
(11)  On any occasion when any playground has not been reserved for any purpose according to
the provisions of the By-laws in this part, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to
allow such playground to be used for sports practice or training in sports without fees.
(12)  In the event of any playground reserved under the provisions of the By-laws in this part
being required for any essential matter of the Chairman or Authorized Officer, on the day of such reser-
vation itself, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel such reservation. If such
cancellation is effected,
(i). The applicant shall be informed in writing about the cancellation three days prior to
the date of such reservation of the playground and the fees paid by him, and the deposit
money shall be refunded fully. Furthermore, such cancellation shall not be effected
less than three days prior to the date of reservation.
(ii). The Chairman or Urban Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel the permit
issued to a particular day due to the urgent or special requirement within three days to
the date such reservation made. However reasonable compensation shall be given to
the permit holder when the cancellation is occurred. But, it shall be confirmed that it
is an advantage to the Urban Council by giving compensation other than the losses
occurring when the cancellation is not made.When the cancellation of a reserved
playground for special requirement by Urban Council in terms of para (i), Council has
no responsibility to any claim of compensation for damages due to the cancellation to
the permit holder or any institution.

<!-- page 66 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
66A
(13) (i). The permit shall be issued on the basis of decision made by the Urban Councils
accordance with the table set out in the schedule II, only after payment of fees for
reservation of the playgrounds and deposit money made by applicant.
(ii). Council has the authority to request to pay the fees  and the security deposit  before
three days as determined by the council from time to time
(14) After the use of any playground reserved for any purpose, only after deducting
(i). the cost of any damage caused to the playground or any section or any assets belonging
to the Urban Council
(ii). The fees that shall be paid on behalf of the extra period of time utilized the
playground.The Balance amount of the deposit shall be paid back to the applicant
(15)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(16) (i). All permits that, issued under these By-laws are valid for the days or hours for how
long they are allowed unless they have been cancelled before.
(ii). In the event of the necessity to get the date of reservation of any playground changed
the applicant shall forward a written request in this regard to the Chairman or Authorized
Officer. The amendment of the date of reservation made according to such request
shall be subject to provisions in By-Laws No. 9 and 10.
(17)  The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect
playground within the specified period at the licensed premises
(18)  It shall be duty of the permit holder who have received permit for use of playground under
the provisions to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the
Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.
(19)  Permit holder or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(20)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(21) (i). It shall be lawful to cancel the permit when the contravention or breach occurred in
terms of these  By-Laws
(ii). It shall be lawful to charge compensation from the permit holder for damaging the
playground or assets in the playground.
(iii). Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if
convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the
Urban limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the
Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-
Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to
additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
Charges and
fares(13 – 14)
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers (17-18)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of By-
laws
Fines and
penalties

<!-- page 67 -->

67AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(22)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity”
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Permit holder” means, any person whosoever obtained a permit under provisions of these By-
Laws.
“Playground” means, any place allocated by Urban Council for the purpose of sports and it shall
include the wall or fence erected around the playground or any building constructed within
the playground or any section of such construction any fittings or instruments.
“Sports” shall have the same interpretation stated in the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973.
S
CHEDULE -01
Application for permission to use the … … … … … … …Playground in … … … … … Urban  Council
Name of the Applicant: … … … … … … … … … … … …
Address: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … …
Reason for application: - … … … … … … … … … … … …
Date and Time when the playground is required:
From … … … … … … To … … … … … … Time … … …
I hereby certify that the above information is true and accurate. In the event of the allocation of
the relevant playground as a result of this request I agree that the Urban Council shall deduct the cost of
any damages caused to the buildings, constructions, instruments and fittings of the playground if and
when such damage is caused. Meanwhile, in the event of the said deposit being not sufficient to affect
such recoveries, I agree to pay any further amount of money require in this respect. Moreover, I agree to
obey the provisions in By-laws relating to the regularizing, control and supervision of the playgrounds.
Date  …………
……………………
Signature of the Applicant
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 68 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
68A
SCHEDULE - 02
According to By-Law No. 13 in this part - Table of fees charged for the use of a playground
No. Name of the Fees Rs. Cts. Deposit Rs. Cts. Fees for
Playground an extra hour
Rs. Cts.
1
2
3
4
Part II - By-Laws relating to prevent from damages to the roads and obstructions to the road
transport and formulate regularize, monitor and administrate roads within the area of author-
ity of Urban Council.
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to prevent from damages to
the roads and obstructions to the road transport and formulate regularize, monitor and administrate the
roads within the area of authority of Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of preventing from damages to the roads
belong to Urban Council and obstructions to the road transport.
(3)  These  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section
157 (7)(c) and (e) of Urban Council Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Council Ordinance
(4) (i). In event entry is required any plot of land through drain that related to any road of
Urban Council ,it shall be duty of the owner or occupier of that land to construct a
bridge, a platform or an arch with approval of Urban Council.
(ii). In the event of using Urban Council roads to transport timber, sands or metal, a formal
permit shall have to be obtained to resolve the cost of damages that would occur in the
process, paying different feesfor different type of vehicles which shall be determined
from time to time by the council and published by Gazette notification.
(5)  No person shall cause any damage to roadway that belongs to the Urban  Council or carry out
any of the following activities
(i). Selling
(ii). Parking of vehicles in a place other than in the places reserved for the purpose by the
Urban Council unless it is due to some reasons making it impossible to start the
vehicle in order to take it out of the park or to drive it out of the park due to some
other damage caused.
(iii). Repairing or washing vehicles
Name of By-
Laws
Objective
Legistrative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
Tasks should not
be executed
(5 – 18)

<!-- page 69 -->

69AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iv). Stockpiling condemned parts of vehicles
(v). Unloading or stockpiling metal, sand, barrels, soil, bricks or planks ,except in the case
of effecting repairs to a road as determined by the  Chairman or Urban Council
(6)  No person shall fill or damage a drain situated along any road or obstruct the free flow of
water along any drain.
(7)  While no person shall make any construction within twenty five feet (7.62 metre) from the
central line of any road in which street line have not been demarcated for a road more than fifty feet
(15.24 metres) wide under the provision of section 19 of housing and Town Improvement Ordinance,
action shall not be taken to stock any building material brought for any other construction on any road or
on any part of that road.
(8)  No person shall act in contravention to an order made by the Urban Council Authorized
Officer under section 19 of these By-Laws or obstruct or cause to be obstructed any person action under
such order
(9)  No person shall gather, heap or remove stones, barrels, sand, soil or any other material along
the road that belong to the Urban Council except order in writing made by Chairman or Authorized
Officer
(10)  Waste water flowing from any land or from a building located in it, shall have to be diverted
to a suction pit, and shall not be diverted to any road or to a drain that runs alongside the road, except in the
case of rain water that falls on the land, the roof of the building and excreted water from the well when it
is cleaned, located on the land.
(11)  No person shall transport dust, sand or any other similar thing by any vehicle on a Urban
Council roads unless such vehicle is converted to prevent emission of such thing
(12)  No person shall destroy , pull down or deface, fall down any milestone, mile post, bound-
ary store, boundary post , lamp post, guard post, bridge, culvert, wall, arch, dam, drain, shine ,retaining
wall, hand rail, chain, fence, name board, sign board belongs to any Avenue or cause damages, to them or
affix to them any poster, notice, hand bill
(13)  No person shall remove any fence, post, stone, log or any other obstruction placed or
erected on any road, on the direction of any proper authority for the avoidance of use of such road
temporarily or repairing it.
(14)  No vehicle or cart shall not be driven or ridden or parked on the road with any log, plank,
iron bar or any other such thing as ejected side wards of the wheels.
(15)  No person shall not drag or make drag any log or any other such thing on vehicle or cart on
roads as to damage the roads.
(16)  No person shall construct or try to construct ridge, pit, channel, or pipeline of water on or
across any road and shall not break or damage the surface of any road in anyway.
(17)  The permit issued under this By-Laws only a permit to use Urban Council’s roads and that
shall not be considered as a permit to transport any goods.
(18)  No vehicle, tare of which does not exceed five tons, shall run on concreted roads or roads
paved with sliced stones.

<!-- page 70 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
70A
(19)  For the purpose of maintaining or repairing or renovating any road that belongs to the
Urban Council ,the Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to issue orders to
(i). Close down for vehicular traffic for any period of time, the whole length of the road
or a part there of or any lane of the road in any direction.
(ii). Stock any building materials on any section of the road
(iii). Entering into any plot of land by the side of the relevant road to store some building
material on it. (necessary notification to land owner for the above action his consent
shall be obtain as possible )
(iv). Allow passage for vehicles through that land without causing any damage to properly
on that land (necessary notification to land owner for the above action his consent
shall be obtain as possible )
(20)  It shall be lawful to Urban Council as per section 95 of Urban Councils Ordinance to
recover fees for permit determined by Urban Council from time to time to transport goods  specified in
the By-Laws section No. 4
(21)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(22)  The permit issued as per this By-Laws is valid for the day unless it is canceled earlier
further it is also valid for the number of time specified in the permit.
(23)  Any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the UrbanChairman or Autho-
rized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.
(24)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws
shall be an offence
(25)  When action has been taken by any person in violation of provisions in the By-Laws sec-
tion 07 to stock any building material on any road or part there of possessed by Urban Council it shall be
lawful for the Chairman orAuthorized Officer or an Authorized Officer to take action to remove those
materials from the spot or to take possession of those materials. The person or Urban Council that took
action to remove the material out of the road shall not be subjected to responsibility in regarding  to any
shortfall, loss or damage caused to the person who stocked the relevant material on road, due to the
actions taken by the Chairmanor Authorized Officer in the above manner. Furthermore, the Chairmanor
Authorized Officer shall not be  subjected to pay any amount of  compensation in respect of material so
removed
(26)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
Function of the
Urban Council
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
Laws (24-25)
Fines and
penalties

<!-- page 71 -->

71AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(27)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires-
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Road” means any road ,highway, lane ,avenue,street,pair of steps,stepping lock or pedestrian
bridge owned by Urban Council and it shall also include any directional sign ,demarcation
stone, demarcation post, lamp post, bridge, any type of culvert,water crossing, parapet wall,
arch, bund, drain,sluice,supportive bund, hand rail,chain,fence,sign board, road sign or pave-
ment by side of the road fixed or erected in relation to any road, highway , lane ,
street,avenue,pair of steps possessed by the Urban Council.
“Vehicle” means any motor vehicle in conformity with the definition given in the motor traffic
act in respect of any motor vehicle and bullock cart, bicycle, hand cart with wheel or any
other vehicle that run by engine or any other way not coming under motor traffic Act .
“Causing damage,” means destroying, removing, disfiguring, toppling, unfastening, disposing or
causing damage some other way. Pasting a poster paint, tar or any other glue altering letters
of a name -board, including erasing, scraping or unfastening, excluding any such of activities
caused and in connection with effecting repairs to the road by the Urban Council or Chair-
man, Authorized Officer or the Authorized Officer.
Interpretation and
definition
PART III - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND
MONITOR OF  LAUNDRIES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,
monitor and control of laundries within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section
157 (9)(w) and (15) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils
Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The license shall be issued to any laundries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Urban
Council, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.
(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed status
Name of  By-
Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-5)

<!-- page 72 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
72A
(ii). W alls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.
These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or approved stones
and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iii). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5 metre from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 meter
(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3.0 metres
from floor level.
(v). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi). Separate rooms shall be provided for storage of soiled linen and clean linen
respectively.
(vii). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of employees separately for males and
females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.
(viii). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed after washing cloth at the
premises to the said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council.
Otherwise, action shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste
water shall be treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be
covered without mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metre away
from the constructed well
(ix). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained in
working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electrical
fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.
(x). It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the
licensed laundry, to undergo a medical test at least once a year
(6)  No person shall run a laundry within the  authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or
she has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer
(7) i. Every licensed laundry shall not be used for household activities at any time.
ii. Every licensed laundry shall not be used to keep any animal or allowed to be used for
such purposes
iii. Every licensed laundry shall not be used to keep soiled and washed clothes mixed or
allowed to be used in that manner
iv. No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item for
washing clothes.
v . Facilities shall be made to dispose waste of charcoal or any other kind of coal in a
separate bin after extinguishing with water. Further coconut shell or any other  things
shall not be burned at the license premises for the preparation of charcoal
Tasks not to be
carried out(6 – 8)

<!-- page 73 -->

73AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
vi. No permit holder shall wash at any place except place allowed or reserved  by the
Urban Council
vii. It is the responsibility of licensee to ensure that every laundryman shall always before
leaving the laundry for the day extinguish or cause to be extinguished every fire or
light used by him, and no light or fire which is dangerous to the safety of any building
or the clothes therein shall be at any time kindled or left alight
(8) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been  recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
(ii). No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;
(9)  In the event of the premises where any laundry is maintained under a licence issued under the
By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officer
shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(10)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance to run  any laundry, the
Secretaryhas the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated
(11)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(12)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31
st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(13) (i). The Chairman or Authorized Officer or has the powers to inspect the standards of
these By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(ii). It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the
provisions of these By-Laws, to the UrbanChairman or Authorized Officer for
inspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(14)  Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 9, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
UrbanAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension
shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(15)  The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for
the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 14 in these By-Laws fails
to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(16)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(17)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
Function of the
Urban Council
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers (13-15)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
laws

<!-- page 74 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
74A
(18)  Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(19)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make
business or product at the specified place.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
“Laundry” means any type of building or any plot of land or place or premises used by any person
pursuing an enterprise as a cleaner of clothes for the purpose of washing clothes, drying
clothes, dry cleaning clothes or for ironing clothes. It shall also include any building used to
store such clothes and any well, tank or other source of water used for the purposes of the
enterprise by such a person.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition
SCHEDULE -01
Application for obtaining laundry licence 20….. within the area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Business centre:-
2. Place of the Business centre:-
i. Ward No.:
 ii. Assessment No.:
  iii. Name of the Road/Street:
iv. GN Division No. & Name:

<!-- page 75 -->

75AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
3. Name of the Applicant:-
i. Full Name:-
ii. Permanent Address:-
iii. GN Division No. & Name:-
iv. NIC No.:
v . Telephone No.:
vi. e-mail Address
4.
i. Date of Beginning
ii. Type of business(Washing Cloths, ironing / washing with ironing ,dry cleaning )
iii. Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:
iv. Previous Business:-
5.
i. Whether washing place is attached with the business centre or it is at any other place?
ii. Whether required drainage system has been made accordance with the By-Laws, if
washing place is attached with
iii. Whether approval has been obtained to the separate washing place if so.
6. If it is rented building,
i. Name of the Owner:
ii. Address:-
7. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 76 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
76A
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 77 -->

77AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 78 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
78A
Name of By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-12)
CHAPTER  4
PART I -STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE,REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE AND
CONTROL THE ADVERTISEMENT WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as standard By-Laws relating to formulate,regularize,
control and supervise advertisement displaying within the Urban Council limits
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensure
protection, comfort and convenience of the people residing within the limits of the   Urban Council
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157 (6)
(g) and (7)(f),(h) and 9 (n) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils
Ordinance
(4) (i). Anybody who expects to obtain a licence to display any advertisement within the limits
of Urban Council shall forward an application substantially prepared in accordance
with  the specimen given in  Schedule-01 to the Chairman or  Authorized Officer  at
least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to be
displayed
(ii). The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer
of Urban Council, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws are duly fulfilled.
(5) (i). Every application forwarded to obtain a licence shall contain a specimen of the
advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 millimetres by 297
millimetres and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement
is expected to be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297
mm. Moreover, the exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have been
indicated therein.
(ii). When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a place
owned by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidence
ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the particular
place shall have been submitted
(6)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the licence issued in
respect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each advertisement
or advertisements while such display is done.
(7)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the
other goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,
within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the application
forwarded to obtain a licence under these By-laws in this part.
(8) (i). The charges of advertisement may be exempted and licence in that behalf  shall be
obtained from the Chairman or  Authorized Officer for an advertisement relating to
any entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose of charity, an
advertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon which such
advertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or Provincial
Council or Local Authority and  an advertisement relating to a religious , political or
public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business. Provided
that in any advertisement and sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permits
shall be obtained by paying fees as specified in these By-Laws.

<!-- page 79 -->

79AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii). When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed
together with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when an
advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,
such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these
By-laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administration
of the premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtain
the licence in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.
(iii). The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premise
or any factory within the area of authority of the Urban  Council, to a single notice
depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being maintained at the
said place of business or the nature of the products being produced at the factory, for
a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase “on lease”
or “for sale” or “available for rent” displayed on any property intended to be given in
lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these By-
Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more than
one such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply in
respect of all such additional advertisements.
(9)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall
(i). maintain such hoarding in a proper condition of repair and security, and
(ii). exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legible
characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.
(10)  Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons who
use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is caused
to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the damages to that
person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized Officer of the Council
shall be exempted of payment of such damages.
(11)  Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by the
Engineer.
(12) (i). The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm
caused or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing
used in this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to
the menacing or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
(ii). The Council shall not be responsible in any way for removing, damaging or disfiguring
of an advertisement obtained under the licence for exhibiting.
(13) (i). Unless any person has a valid licence issued on the application prepared according to
the specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the Chairmanor
Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in
any form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authority
of the Council.
(ii). Even after obtaining a valid licence for display of advertisements nobody shall display
or let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specifically
stated in the relevant licence, to be seen when worked at from any public place
Tasks not to be
carried out
(13 – 20)

<!-- page 80 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
80A
(14)  The period of validity of the licence already issued to any other licensee in respect of the
place for which the licence is currently requested shall have been completed further there shall be suffi-
cient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an obstacle to issue a li-
cence to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the viewing of the advertisement
being displayed under a licence previously issued and still in force.
(15) (i). The advertisement for which a display licence is sought shall not contain any scenes
or words which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or
harming any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.
(ii). It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law of
the country.
(16)  Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident
to a person walking hear the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover, fixing
of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving a vehicle or
cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.
(17)  No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any place of
public worship or park or any bridge or street or  electrical post  or any tree or branch close to them or
any public building connected with them.
(18)  An advertisement to be displayed in such manner as to project over or across any pavement
carriageway of any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed  or attached to an over-
head bridge constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected in
a manner approved by the  engineer.
(19)  No person shall cause
(i). any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other than
that approved by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(ii). in addition to the approval given by the Urban Council, any vehicle bearing any
illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent  of police, shall be
driven on any street or road
(20)  Any licence issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered or
constructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression
(21) (i). The Urban Council shall determine to which areas belong to the Urban Council are
allowed to display advertisements within the area of authority of the Urban Council
(ii). W hen conditions necessary for the issue of a licence under the By-laws in this part in
respect of any application submitted have been fulfilled the Chairmanor Authorized
Officer shall inform the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairmanor
Authorized Officer to issue the licence to the applicant after paying the fees for the
licence in the manner set out in section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set out
in section 22(i) of By-Law, after receipt of the above notice.
(iii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or  Authorized Officer to publish a notification in
the Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could be
displayed or exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of its
publication, or from whatsoever date specified therein
Functions of the
Urban Council
( 21 – 24)

<!-- page 81 -->

81AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iv). The Urban Council shall have power to construct or maintain an advertisement board
Under these By-Laws as determined by Urban Council in any land belongs to any
person and given to the Urban Council on agreement or in any land belongs to the
Urban Council.
(v).  The Urban Council shall have the power to recover the fees already fixed by  the
Urban Council from the licensee to display any advertisement on the board constructed
by the Urban Council under above sub section (ii)
(vi). Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisement
licence is duty of  Chairman or Authorized Officer as specified in above paragraph (i)
in these By–Law No. 25
(22) (i). when a decision has been made to issue a licence in respect of any application forwarded
for the purpose of displaying an advertisement the Chairman or  Authorized Officer
shall not issue the licence for the said application until the applicant has deposited
security money in the Urban Council at the rates to be determined by it from time to
time.
(ii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazette
about the decision taken by the Urban Council in respect of the rate of the security
deposit to be deposited in the Urban Council prior to issuing a licence to display any
advertisement.
(23) (i). After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No
7, the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at the
Urban Council before the issuing of the relevant licence on a written request made to
the Chairman or  Authorized Officer
(ii). On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be the
duty of Chairman or  Authorized Officer to ensure,
(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-law No. 7;
(b) and that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Urban Council no
damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said advertisement or due to
any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before releasing the said deposit
money to the said licensee.
(iii). Unless the Chairman or  Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the manner
set out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the By-law
No. 7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Urban Council, the said
deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licensee has
avoided acting in the manner stated in By-law No. 7 or when any damage has been
caused to the hoarding of the Urban Council, suitable action shall be taken to deduct
from the deposit money expenditure that the Urban Council would have to bear to
effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only the
balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.
(iv). When the money leviable by the Urban Council in taking action in the manner stated in
paragraph (iii) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee shall pay the
extra money payable to the Urban Council.
(v). However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made by
the licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to the
licensee for what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.

<!-- page 82 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
82A
(24)  Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a licence issued by
the Urban Council and to take into the possession of the Urban Council or remove in a manner decided by
the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(25) (i). Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance,  the Secretary has the
authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated  to
display any advertisement, further
(a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Urban Council under para 21(vi)
to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place belonging to
the Urban Council under these By-Laws. or
(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Urban Council from
time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed where land is
belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .
(ii). Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law No. 22
(iii). Person who has applied for a temporary licence to display any advertisement shall pay
licence fee according to the decision made by the Council from time to time.
(iv). when it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after the
expiry of the period of validity of the licence currently issued for the displayof any
advertisement a new licence shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for
such succeeding year.
(v). However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Urban Council as
charges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of licence to be
issued for the display of advertisements, the same licence fees determined earlier
shall be recovered for the new licence to be issued for the display of the said
advertisement.
(26)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(27) (i). validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31
stDecember of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is
cancelled earlier
(ii). T emporary licence shall be valid for days for which  licence has been issued unless  its
validity is cancelled earlier
(28) (i). When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of
any advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk
to anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or  Authorized Officeror the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order to
bring it back to proper conditions within two weeks.
(ii). It shall be lawful to ca ncel the issued licence for such advertisement and remove the
advertisement by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, when
anybody in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the manner
provided by the provisions of the notification.
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers

<!-- page 83 -->

83AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iii). when any licence has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the security
deposit, deposited at the Urban Council in respect of displaying that advertisement
shall acqure to the funds of the Urban Council and nobody else shall have the right to
claim the deposit money.
(iv). It shall be lawful Chairman or  Authorized Officer or Authorized officer to issue
temporary licence for less than fourteen days as required. However all conditions are
applicable to issue temporary licence.
(29)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by this
officer
(30)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws
shall be an offence.
(31)  When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or the
Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any licence issued having invited the attention in
respect of such violations.
(32)  Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(33)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as UrbanChairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means period from the time of sun
shining until the time of sun setting.
“Engineer” meansEngineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the Chair-
man to carry out particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person
in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this
provision.
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
Laws (30-31)
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 84 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
84A
“Superintendent of police” means, an officer in police station given authority for the specified
purpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.
“Cut-out” means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some other
material ;
“Display board” means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging an
advertisementdisplayed for the information and attention of the public ;
“Advertisement” means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or
notice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustra-
tions used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or any
vehicle or  a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of the
public and put in place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
URBAN  COUNCIL
Application for the Advertisement
1. Full Name :-
2. Address:-
3. N.I.C.No.:-
4. Mobile No.:-
5. E-Mail Address:-
6. Advertisement model annexed:-
7. Location map annexed:-
8. Type of Advertisement:-    One side/ Double sides/ Lighted
9. Duration:-         From:                                     To:
10. Size of Advertisement:-    Length:                               Width:                   Height:
I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted to
municipal property without any notice.
………………….  ……………………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant

<!-- page 85 -->

85AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer
Chief Revenue Inspector.
Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable
……………………. …………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
Secretary
Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended
……………………… ……………………………………
Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Secretary,
Size of  Advertisement     Length ................   Wide ................... Area ( square meter ) ................
Detail Private RDD Road RDA Road MC Land MC Road
Land
Agreement is made Yes/No
Land Rent(Rs200*sq)
Advertisement Fees
(Rs100*sq)
Total Fees
VAT
NBT
Total Amount
……………………. ………………………………………
Date Management Assistant
Above advertisement is approved / not approved
…………………… ……………………………
Date Secretary

<!-- page 86 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
86A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………………………..
Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.
………………… ……………………………………..
Date Field officer/ Technical officer
 (Planning section)
Name of  By-
Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment  for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-15)
Part II -Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize , supervise ,control and admin-
istrate of the parking of vehicles within the limit of the Urban Council
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the standard By-laws relating to control, regularize,
supervise and administer parking of vehicle within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting of passengers preventing
accidents and controlling traffic jam by maintaining vehicle parks in suitable places within the
limit of Urban Council area.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157(7)
(c) and (14 A) read with sub section 153(1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Any driver of a vehicle being driven along any street or road located within or lying along the
area of authority of the Urban Council shall obey the Provisions depicted in a road sign or signs fixed
under the Provisions in paragraph (ii) of By-Laws No.23.

<!-- page 87 -->

87AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(5)  Action shall be taken to display easily readable notices in the three languages at the entry and
the exit for the convenience of the vehicles arriving at the vehicle park. Moreover, arrows with white lines
20 centimeters wide shall be marked so as to enable the drivers to easily recognize the directions they
shall follow while entering into the vehicle park and leaving it.
(6)  The floor of every vehicle park shall be tarred or laid with concrete. Separate lavatories shall
have been made available for the males and females using the vehicle park. At the same time sufficient
drains shall have been constructed for the free flow of water accumulated at the site.
(7)  When accommodation is made to park vehicles at any vehicle park, sufficient traffic lanes
shall be made available for the convenience of vehicles entering and leaving the premises
(8)  When any vehicle is being driven or being parked within the vehicle park sufficient space
shall be made available in it to park each vehicle so as not to cause any obstruction to those already parked
within. Moreover, a white line of 10 centimetres wide shall be marked to indicate the space allocated to
each vehicle in the park.
(9) (i).
(a) Any employee of the Urban Council; or
(b) Any successful bidder selected by the Urban Council after calling for tenders or
a person named by the particular bidder, hereinafter referred to as the “V ehicle
Park Warden” shall be employed by the Urban Council to collect charges made
on vehicles parked in the vehicle park.
(ii). However, while the fees charged for parking vehicles in any vehicle park shall not
exceed the fees decided by the Urban Council in the manner stated in these By-Laws,
the fees charged for parking each vehicle shall be noted down in a receipt substantially
prepared according to the first schedule in this part and issued to the driver.
(10) (i). It shall be the duty of the Vehicle Park Warden to issue an Admission Card indicating
permission to enter and prepared substantially in accordance with the second schedule
in this part to the driver of the vehicle at the entrance to the Park when a vehicle of any
type allowed to be parked under By law No. 26(ii) enters the vehicle park.
(ii). Before leaving the vehicle park, it shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle parked
in the vehicle park to -
(a) return the card mentioned in paragraph (i) to the vehicle park warden,
(b) pay to the vehicle park warden fees for suitable parking place decided upon by the
Council in the manner set out in By-Law No. 28
(c) Obtain a suitable receipt mentioned in paragraph (b) of By-Laws No. 9(ii).
(11)  It shall be the duty of the owner or the driver of any vehicle parked within any vehicle park
to submit for inspection the admission card issued in respect of the vehicle when the Chairman or any
Authorized Officer or the Vehicle Park Warden or any Police Officer requests it for inspection.
(12)  Accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws to park the following vehicles ina ve-
hicle park within limits of UrbanCouncil areaany fees shall not be paid. However provision of these By-
Laws shall apply to any vehicle belonging to the below said vehicles.
(a) government vehicles,
(b) vehicles of the Provincial Council,
(c) Vehicles of a local authority established within the Province,

<!-- page 88 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
88A
(d) Any vehicle parked on maintain and repairs for the services, belonging to Water
supply, Telecommunication and Electricity Board. Further By-Law No 28 shall
be applicable to any vehicle belongs to a government corporation or a statuary
board.
(13) (i). It shall be lawful to the Chairman or  Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer or
the Vehicle Park Warden to take action to remove any vehicle parked in the vehicle
park without a valid admission card. Assistance of the police may be seeked for this
action.
(ii). When so removed, the owner of the vehicle or the driver shall not be entitled to any
compensation to be claimed from the council or the officer who removed that vehicle,
for any damage caused to such vehicle. The owner or driver of the vehicle shall haveto
pay the Urban Council, the expenses of drawing the vehicle safe keeping expenses and
the other expenses assessed by the Chairman,  Authorized Officer or vehicle parked
warden, for release of such vehicles
(iii). Every permit issued under these By-Laws shall contain the distinctive number of the
motor vehicle in respect of which it is issued and it shall be valid for the period stated
in the permit.
(iv). Every person who obtains a permit under these By-Laws shall display such permit in a
conspicuous place within the vehicle so that it may be visible from outside the vehicle
(14)  A permit may be obtained by anyone on an agreement monthly having paid such fee deter-
mined by the council from time to time for special parking place introduced by the Urban council
(15)  A parking place may be reserved for any institution on an agreement having paid such fee
determined by the Urban Council from time to time.
(16)  No person shall run any private parking place without  licence obtained from Urban
council
(17)  Notwithstanding anything stated in the By-Law No 4 the limitations prescribed by any road
sign fixed on the decision of the Urban Council under the provisions of By-Law No 23 shall not apply in
respect of
(i). fire fighting vehicle or any other vehicle of the Urban Council used for the purpose of
control any fire or any disaster occurring at any building or close to a building in any
section of the street or road;
(ii). acting in accordance with an order issued appropriately by any Police Officer in order
to prevent any traffic jam occurring in any street or road or on any particular section
of the street or road or in order to control any unexpected situation occurring in the
area of authority of the Urban Council, and it shall not be considered as a violation of
the provisions in By-Law 4.
(18) (i). Any person shall not park or drive into a vehicle park or allow to be driven into the
park any vehicle or a vehicle which is not a motor vehicle, unless it is a vehicle of the
type decided by the Urban Council to be allowed into the Park for parking.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 22)

<!-- page 89 -->

89AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii). When there is sufficient space at the entry gate for any vehicle arriving at the vehicle
park to tow away any vehicle parked inside it when it is found impossible to start, in
order to take it out of the park, the provisions in paragraph (i) shall not apply for the
other vehicles. However, such towing shall not be made in a manner causing any obstacle
or harm to other vehicles parked in the vehicle park.
(19)  Any person shall not, -
(i). wash a vehicle or cause a vehicle to be washed;
(ii). make any repairs other than an essential repair in order to start the vehicle or changing
a tyre for the purpose of taking the vehicle out of the vehicle park;
(iii).  Make any noise which is considered unnecessary or oppressive when any repair
mentioned in paragraph (ii) are carried out.
(iv). park the vehicle in any place in the vehicle park other than where it was originally
parked without permission from the Vehicle Park Warden;
(v). park vehicles so as to block the lanes of the vehicle park or the gates at the entry and
the exit;
(vi). blow the alarm instruments fixed in the vehicle except for the purpose of preventing
an accident or ensuring the safety of the occupants in the vehicle;
(vii). blow the horn of any vehicle parked or entering or leaving the vehicle park,
(viii). Consume liquor or spit after chewing betel leaves or use indecent language or create
commotion or engage in immoral activities, in any vehicle park.
(20)  The responsibility in regard to the damage of any vehicle parked in any vehicle park shall be
liable with the person who park it in the vehicle park. The Urban Council, theChairman,  Authorized
Officer or the Vehicle Park Warden shall not be subjected to responsibility in regard to any loss or harm
caused within the vehicle park.
(21)  No vehicle shall on any occasion be driven in the opposite direction to that which is marked
in the lane within any vehicle park in the manner set out in By-Law No. 5.
(22)  No person shall harm or deface any construction made or instrument found in any vehicle
park.
(23) (i). The Urban Council shall have the power to -
(a) ban the parking of vehicles
(b) limit the parking of vehicles;
(c) allow parking on one side only;
(d) ban or limit the loading or unloading of goods;
(e) ban loading and unloading of passengers;
(f) name bus stops;
(g) name one way streets and roads and to determine the direction of traffic
(h) Naming of public parking place for parking of vehicle. on any section of any
street or road in the area of authority of the Urban Council;
Function of the
Urban Council (23
- 27 )

<!-- page 90 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
90A
(ii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or  Authorized Officer to take action to fix road
signs on limitations at relevant places after placing any limitations under paragraph
(i). While these road signs on the limitations shall be in accordance with provisions
published in the Gazette Extra-ordinary No. 448/18 dated 13th March 1987, having
been made by the Minister under Section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act read with
section 164 of the said Act, they are subject to amendments made from time to time.
(24)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take steps to remove garbage
collected within the premises of every vehicle park every day and to clean the lavatories using
disinfectant daily.
(25)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take action to see that every
Vehicle Park Warden on duty is dressed in a suit to be decided by the Urban Council and which would
allow easy identification of the Park Warden.
(26) (i). The Urban Council shall have the power to allocate, -
(a) any plot of land owned by the Council ;or
(b) Any plot of land owned by any other Authority, (according to an agreement entered
into with such Authority) for the purpose of parking motor vehicles, hereinafter
referred to as “the vehicle park”, within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(ii). The Urban Council shall decide from time to time the type of vehicles that shall be
parked in any vehicle park and the maximum
(iii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to display at the entrance
prominently in the three languages the amount of money decided upon by the Council
as charges for parking of any type of vehicle in any vehicle park.
(27)  At least two gates shall be made available in every vehicle park, one as a point of entry and
the other as an exit. However, in the event of allocating a separate area in the park for the sole purpose of
moving vehicles and allowing double lanes for vehicular traffic, with sufficient space at the gate it shall
be in order to have only one gate for entry as well as exit.
(28) (i). A fee decided by the Urban Council from the time to time, shall be recovered for
parking any vehicle at parking place belongs to the Urban Council
(ii). Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, Secretary has the authority
to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated  to run  private
parking of vehicle.
(iii). A fee decided by the Urban Council from time to time shall be recovered for parking
of vehicle in private parking place. Further, 25 percentage of recoveries for parking of
vehicle decided by Urban Council from time to time, shall be paid to the Urban Council.
A separate agreement also shall be made with the private parking holders.  The receipts
books approved by the Urban Council only shall be used for their collections by the
private parking holders.
(iv). If the vehicles are parked during the night in the parking places belonging to Urban
Council, a fee specified by the council from time to time shall be paid in that behalf.
(v). Further it shall be lawful to the Urban Council to assign the recovery of fees for
public parking place belongs to Urban Council on annual lease to the lessee.
(vi). However details of all fees shall be published in the Government Gazette of Sri Lanka.
Charges and fees

<!-- page 91 -->

91AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(29)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(30) (i). These By-Laws shall be in operation on days and times determined by the council
from time to time. If not so, the operation time shall be from 6.00 a.m to 9 p.m.
(ii). The validity of every private licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws
shall expire on 31st December of each year for which the license has been issued,
unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(31)  The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer or an
Authorized Officer under the provisions of these By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when a
parking place in open for parking.
(32)  It shall be duty to co-operate the permit holder who have received permit under the
provisions, to the Urban Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer for inspection, and
shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.
(33)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(34)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(35)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if
convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable
to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in
case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the
jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(36)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Permit holder” means any person whosoever obtained a permit issued by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer or authorized office under the provision of these by law for parking of
vehicle at the parking place.
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
license or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers (31 – 32)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 92 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
92A
“Road” means a road, highway, lane, avenue, street, pair of steps, stepping log or bridge and it
shall also include any directional sign, boundary stone, boundary post, lamp post, bridge, any
type of arch, water crossing, parapet wall, arch, bund, drain, sluice gate, supportive bund, hand
rail, chain, fence, signboard, highway name board or pavement by the side of the road fixed or
attached to a thoroughfare, road, highway, lane, street, by-lane, steps owned by the Council.
“vehicle” shall be interpreted in the same way as it is given in the Motor Traffic Ordinance and it
includes a cart, bicycle or any mechanism with wheels and operated mechanically or in any
other way.
Schedule 1
Paragraph (ii) of By-Law No. 09
…………………………. Urban Council
……………………….. Vehicle Park
Fees for parking vehicle
Receipt No. ………..
Vehicle No.
Date
Time of Arrival …………………..  a.m/ p.m
Time of Departure …………………..  a.m/ p.m
Charged fees (Rs)
Schedule 2
Paragraph (i) of By-Law No. 10
Front Page of the card
…………………………. Municipal Council
……………………….. Vehicle Park
Back page of card
This card should not be transferred
This card should not be transferred

<!-- page 93 -->

93AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-10)
PART III — STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZE,FORMULATE,CONTROL AND
MONITOR OF CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF SWIMMING POOL WITHIN THE AREA OF
AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to regularize, formulate, control and
monitor of construction and maintenance of swimming pools within the area of authority of the Urban
council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of ensuring maintenance of security and
public health in proper standard of the swimming pool within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4
of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section 157
(9) (w)and (15) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  If only the following conditions in the By-Laws of this part are fulfilled the Authorized
Officer shall issue a licence to any swimming pool.
(i). Sufficient provisions shall have been made to supply water made available for
pre-baths and the swimming pool according to the standards prescribed by the Medical
Officer of Health ;
(ii). Necessary arrangements shall have been put in place to use sufficient disinfectants
for supplies of water mentioned in paragraph (i) ;
(iii). Shower-roses shall be provided for a pre-bath before swimming in the pool ;
(iv). with a view to purifying and disinfecting the entire water capacity in the said swimming
pool twice within a period of twenty four hours, a set of strainers with pumps circulating
water shall have been fixed ;with a view to purifying and disinfecting, a set of strainers
with pumps circulating water shall have been fixed ;
(v). The de pth of the swimming pool shall be clearly marked on the platform of the
swimming pool ;
(vi). A hand-rails and a ladders made of stainless steel shall have been fixed to enter into
the swimming pool and get out of it, at a distance of at least 8 meters all around the
Swimming Pool ;
(vii). The swimming pool shall be fixed with distinctive colored tiles so that the bottom as
well as the walls of the pool are clearly visible after it has been filled with water
(viii). If children under twelve years are allowed to swim in the pool, a separate section with
a depth of not more than one meters shall have been constructed for such purposes.
(ix). if towers have been constructed to facilitate diving into the swimming pool they shall
have been constructed in concrete and a strong ladder built with iron or steel shall
have been fixed ;
(x). A sufficient programme of life saving and first-aid shall have been put in place ;
(xi). Separate dressing rooms and lavatories shall be made available to males and females
using the swimming pool ;

<!-- page 94 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
94A
(xii). The floors of dressing rooms and bathroom shall be well drained and maintained in a
clean conditions and shall be treated daily with a suitable disinfectant.
(xiii). if swimming is allowed after 6.30 p.m., sufficient electric light shall be made available
to the interior as well as the exterior of the pool site ;
(xiv). Visib le foreign material that may float on the surface of swimming pool water shall be
removed daily.
(xv). The enclo sure of the area of every swimming pool shall be kept in good repair and
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times
(xvi). A drainage system to allow free flow of water used in lavatories and bathing spots
shall be made available ;
(xvii). The waste materials deposited in the bottom shall be disposed of at least once daily ;
(xviii). The entire water capacity of the swimming pool shall  be purified and disinfected at
least twice a day ;
(xix). Every swimming pool that is in use shall be equipped with test kits or testing equipment
for measuring :
(a) residual disinfectant
(b) the pH (hydrogen iron concentration)
(c) the total alkanity and ; where cyanotic acid or one of the chlorinated isocyanuratesi
s used.
(d) concentration of cyanuric acid in the swimming poor water.
(6) (i). While a programme prescribed by the Urban Council Medical Officer of Health shall
have been put in place for disinfecting the water filled in the swimming pool instruments
recommended by him shall also be made available.
(ii). The floor and the walls of the lavatories and the places where shower roses have been
provided for pre-baths shall be tiled.
(7) (i). All swimming pools when in use shall be continuously disinfected by a chemical and/
or process which meets all of the following requirements :
(a) That the disinfectant or disinfecting process is a standard one for potable water.
(b) That it imparts a residual effect which may be easily and accurately measured by
a field test procedure.
(c) That it is compatible for use with other chemicals normally used in the treatment
of swimming pool water.
(d) That it does not impart toxic properties to the water beyond that of acceptable
chlorinating, when used accorder to directions.

<!-- page 95 -->

95AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii). If the active agent of the disinfectant is chlorine, the un estabilished free available
chlorine, as measured by a standard method shall be at least of the following
concentration, depending on the PH of the swimming pool water
Ph. minimum free e available residual chlorine
mg/liter ( not stabilized with cyanuric acid)
7.5 0.40
7.6  0.50
7.7  0.60
7.8 0.70
7.9  0.80
8.0 1.00
(iii). If cyanotic acid is used to stabilize the free available residual chlorine, or if one of the
chlorinated is cyanate compounds is used as the disinfecting chronical, the
concentration of cyanuric acid in the water should be at least 30 mg/liter but shall not
exceed 100 mg/liter and the free available residual chlorine, as measured by a standard
method, shall at least of the following concentration, depending on the PH of the
swimming pool water
Ph. Minimum free available re sidual chlorine
mg/liter (cyanuric acid is at least equal to
30 mg/ Liter but not Sreater than 100 mg/ / liter)
7.5                                                                           1.00
7.6                                                                           1.25
7.7                                                                           1.50
7.8                                                                           1.75
7.9                                                                           2.00
8.0                                                                           2.50
(iv). if the disinfections of the swimming pool water is accomplished by a chemical or
process other than one of the Chlorine compounds, the disinfecting action shall be at
least the equivalent of that provided by 0.4 mg/liter of unestablished free available
chlorine at a PH of 7.5
(v). Samples collected for microbiological examination shall be taken while the pool is in
use and shall be collected, the residual disinfectant deactivated. and be examined by a
standard method for the microbiological examination of
(vi). The swimming pool water shall not contain-
(a) More than 200 colonies per mill. As determined by the standard agar plate count.
(b)  Coliform organizes and E. Cori type I shall be absent in 100 ml.

<!-- page 96 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
96A
(vii). The water in all swimming pools when in use shall have the following chemical and
physical characteristics :
(a)shall be alkaline as indicated by a pH of not less than 7 mg/liter and more than 8.0
(b)  Shall have a total alkalinity of at least 50 mg/liter but not greater than 150 mg/
liter as measured by the methyl orange test.
(c) Shall have sufficient clarity so that a black and white disc 15 centimeters (6 inches)
in diameter is visible clearly at the deepest point of the swimming pool when
viewed from the side of the swimming pool.
(8) (i). Proper operating records shall be kept for every swimming pool when in use, and
shall be available for inspection by an officer of the council generally or specially
authorized thereto by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.
(ii). Operating records shall include daily figures at least the following item :—
(a) Time of opening for use and number of hours in use
(b) total bather load
(c) Peak bather load.
(d) volume of makeup water,
(e) operating periods f circulating pumps and filters with corresponding readings of
the rate of flow meter
(f) amounts of chemicals used
(g) disinfectant residual readings
(h) PH readings.
(i) Readings of other chemical tests.
(j) Clarity of the swimming pool at the deepest point.
(k)  Maintenance servicing of equipment.
(9)  The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
No 10 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a month or more than if neces-
sary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or removed.
(10) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclables, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows :—
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
(f) Residues of Raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

<!-- page 97 -->

97AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of waste management
launched by the Urban Councils the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(11) (i). No person shall establish , manage , operate, run a swimming pool withoutobtain an
annual licence from the Chairman or   Authorized Officer complying with condition
and standards provided for issues of such licence.
(ii). However specified Paragraph 1, a concession period of three months, after effecting
date of these By-Laws shall be given to obtain a licence to maintain any swimming
pool. After completion of that period no person shall maintain a swimming pool without
obtaining a licence.
(12)  No customer who is coming swim shall use the swimming pool any way without using
swimming dresses and pre bathe
(13)  In the event of the premises where a swimming pool is established under a license issued
under these By-Laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out
in these By-Law  No. 4 or contravenes the provisions of any provision of the By-laws set out in this part
the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish neces-
sary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(14)  Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Laws No 13 shall act in the manner
prescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have
been forwarded in writing the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to extend the date
specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than fourteen days.
(15)  When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No 14 fails to act in accor-
dance with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it
shall be lawful for the Chairman or  Authorized Officer to cancel the licensee issued to that premises.
(16) (i). Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance,  the Secretary has the
authority to charge for  licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated   to run
swimming pool
(ii). The fees shall be exempted for the swimming pool run by the Government of Srilanka
or Provincial Council
(17)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(18)  The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31
st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(19)  It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the provisions,
to the Urban Chairman or  Authorized Officer or any authorized officer for inspection, and shall not make
obstacle to stop such inspection
Tasks not to be
carried out
(11 – 12)
Functions of the
Urban Council
 (13 - 15 )
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers ( 19 – 21)

<!-- page 98 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
98A
(20)  Samples of water should be collected by periodically from every swimming pool when is
used and examined for the microbiological quality of water. When such samples are collected the PH and
residual disinfectant concentration shall also be tested at same time.
(21)  When the Medical Officer of Health has decided that any type of epidemic or infection has
gripped the area where the swimming pool is located or in its neighborhood, the Chairman shall have the
power to order the closure of the swimming pool.
(22)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(23)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Law
shall be an offence.
(24)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(25)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires “
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Council Chairman by the provisions of
the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of these By-Laws
of the Ice factory and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person
in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” placef or which is issued licence to take all measure under this
provision.
“The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business at the specified place.”Swimming pool” means any pool of water constructed
for swimming as an exercise or as a pastime or for practice by any outsider for fees or free of
charge.
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of By-
Laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 99 -->

99AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
SCHEDULE -01
URBAN  COUNCIL
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….... for  Conducting Swimming Pool
1. Name of the Swimming Pool:-………………………………………………………………
2. Place of the Swimming Pool:-
(i) Ward No.: …………………………..
(ii) Assessment No.:……………………………
(iii) Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………
(iv) GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….
3. i. Full Name of the Applicant ……………
ii. Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………
iii. GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-…………………………………………
iv. NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………
v . Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..
vi. e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..
4. i. Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..
 ii. (a)  Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the  Swimming Pool:-……………………
(b)  Telephones Number  of the Owner /Manager / Agent of Swimming Pool:- ……
5. If the land/ building is obtained on lease/rent.
a. Name of the Owner:…………………………………………………
b. Address:-…………………………………………………………………….
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes/No
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:…………………………………..
Date:…………………………………………
7. Whether Swimming Pool is separately constructed for adults and children:- Yes/No
If so, it is separately constructed for adults and children
(i) Area of the  Swimming Pool for adults- in square metre:……………………………….
(ii) Area of the  Swimming Pool for children - in square metre:…………………………..

<!-- page 100 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
100A
8. Dressing Rooms:
(i) Number of Dressing Rooms for male:……………………………………………
(ii) Number of Dressing Rooms for female:…………………………………………
9. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the Swimming Pool ………………………
10. Toilets :
1. The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
2. The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
11. Water:
(i) Method/ methods and number of  method/ methods to provide water for Swimming
Pool:………………………………………………………….
(ii) Method/ methods and number of  method/ methods to provide drinking water to
customers:……………………………………………
12. Method/ methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
13.  Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Swimming Pool /Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of Assessment Section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head

<!-- page 101 -->

101AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of revenue department,
1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Accountant

<!-- page 102 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
102A
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
C
HAPTER -5
PART 1 -STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO CONDUCT THE ICE FACTORY TO REGULARIZE,
MONITOR FORMULATE AND CONTROL ICE FACTORY WITHIN THE LIMIT OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control
and monitor Ice factory within the area of authority of Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of maintaining public health and environment
without any harmful to the public residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the
Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157
(9)(q) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee
(5)  The licence shall be issued by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer to the ice factory when
the applicant has completed the conditions in this By-Law
(i). The licensed premises shall be in good condition and well ventilated
(ii). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
Name of By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-15)

<!-- page 103 -->

103AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iii). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres from
floor level.
(iv). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 meter.
(v). While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms fixed with machinery for ice
products shall not be less than 3.0 meters the walls shall have been plastered with
mortar and the insides applied with paints, in the event of there being built with bricks,
cement blocks or approved blocks. Otherwise when the walls have been built in wood
together with aluminum or any other metal surfaces of the planks shall have been
painted on their surface ;
(vi). Timber used for the roof shall be applied with oil colours or paints ;
(vii). The floor space shall be finished off with cement or tiled ;
(viii). A quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board on the
suitability of the water used for the manufacture of ice for human consumption shall
have been obtained. This quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six
months. In the event of the water being supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board is used for the manufacture of ice it shall be presumed that this
certificate has been obtained ;
(ix). In the event of water used in the manufacture of ice and activities connected therewith
being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water stored
shall be put in place ;
(x). Action shall have been taken to dispose of waste produced in the licensed premises in
the manner set out in By-Law No. 12.
(xi). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated andreleased to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the
constructed well.
(xii). Any lavatory, waste pit or open waste drain or suction pit constructed at the licensed
premises shall be located at a distance more than 15 metres from the room where ice
is produced and the place where ice produced is issued to customers.
(xiii). General firefighting instruments and electrical fire fighting instruments have been
made actively and sufficiently.
(6)  Every space where paints need to be applied as set out in By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with
paints at least once a year.
(7)  The place where ice produced and issued to the customers shall have been washed with water
at least once a day.

<!-- page 104 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
104A
(8)  Every licensee of an ice factory shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside
of his premises, a board with his name and the words “Licensed Ice Factory” legible painted thereon in
Sinhala, Tamil and English
(9)  The persons who are carrying  ice factory products for sales shall have a registration card
with signature of the owner of ice factory
(10)  A copy of the trade licence issued to owner of ice factory shall be displayed at the con-
scious placeof licence premises
(11)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety
materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on
duty at the ice factory.
(12)  The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
13 and put in  impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or  more than once a day if
necessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or
removed
(13) (i). Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action
shall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories
(a) bio degradable waste ;
(b) glass ;
(c) paper or paper based materials ;
(d) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;
(e) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;
(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by
products or other parts produced in the production line ;
(g) dangerous waste ;and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in
separate containers or tanks put in place for that purpose.
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(14)  The instruments used shall be cleaned every day and maintained in proper maintaining
condition
(15)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premises
to a medical test at least once a year.
(16)  Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer for the particu-
lar function has been obtained no person shall maintain an ice factory within the Urban Council area.
(17)  Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been  recently nursing anybody who is suffer-
ing from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report,  shall not
be engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the
place, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed
Tasks not to be
carried out( 16– 22)

<!-- page 105 -->

105AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(18)  Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage
himself or employ anybody else in any duty at a licensed premise.
(19)  Non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used to store. Chemicals used in the
manufacture of ice. Further these materials shall not be kept outside the stores unless they are kept in the
ice manufacturing room for the manufacture of ice.
(20) (i). Rooms reserved for the manufacture of ice shall not be used for any other purpose
(ii). A separate room or a site shall have been made available to store fuel. Further fuel
shall not be taken through the rooms storing ice and issuing ice to customers.
(21)  No licensee of an ice factory shall keep any animal or bird at licensed premises.
(22)  No licensee shall introduce into the ice factory materials and articles other than those used
in the manufacture of ice
(23)  It shall be lawful for the Chairmanor Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, to
purchase a sample of any kind of ice products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of
inspection at the licensed premise.
(24)  In the event of the premises where any ice factory is conducted under a licence issued
under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairmanor
Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish
necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(25)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance, the Secretary has the authority
to charge for  licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated   to run Ice factory
(26)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(27)  The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31
stDecember of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(28)  The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect
the standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(29)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or Authorized Officer
or any authorized officer.
(30)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 24 in these By- Laws,
shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the
period of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(31)  The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for
the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 30 in these By-Laws
fails to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
Functions of the
Urban Council
(23 – 24)
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
licence or permit
procedures of
inspection and
powers  (28-31)

<!-- page 106 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
106A
(32)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(33)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(34)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(35)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as UrbanChairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Council
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of these By-Laws
of the Ice factory and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person
in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” placefor which is issued licence to take all measure under this
provision.
“Ice Factory” means a factory where water is caused to solidify mechanically on a commercial
basis for consumption.
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of By-
Laws
Fines and penalties
Interpretation and
definition
SCHEDULE -1
URBAN  COUNCIL
Application for Business tax / Licence 20…....for  Conducting Ice Factory
1. Name of the Ice factory:-……………………………………………………………
2. Place of the Ice factory:-
(i). Ward No.: …………………………..
(ii). Assessment No.:……………………………
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….

<!-- page 107 -->

107AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
3. Full Name of the Applicant ……………
(i). Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………
(ii). GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-……………………………………………..
(iii). NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………
(iv). Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..
(v). e-mail Addressof the Applicant:……………………………………………………..
4.
(i). Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..
(ii).
(a) Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the  Ice factory:………………………
(b) Telephones Number  of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the  Ice factory:-…………
5. If the land/building is obtained on lease/rent.
a. Name of the Owner:-………………………………………………………
b. Address:-………………………………………………………………………….
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Y es/No
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:…………………………………..
Date:…………………………………………
7. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the Ice factory:……………………………………
8. Toilets :
(i). The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …
(ii). The number of toilets for female employees: … … … …
9.       Method/methods and number of method/methods to get water
10. Method/methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … …
 11. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … …
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Ice factory /Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Sig nature of Applicant

<!-- page 108 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
108A
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                                    Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Me dical Officer of Health

<!-- page 109 -->

109AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 110 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
110A
PART II -STANDARD BY - LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE AND
CONTROL OF AERATED WATER MANUFACTORIES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE
URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, super-
vise and control the aerated water manufactory within the area of authority of the Urban Council
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for purpose protection of environment and public health for
the people residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section
157 (9)(q) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The license shall be issued to any manufacturer of soft drinks by the Chairman or Authorized
Officer of Urban Council, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i). The aerated water manufactory shall be kept in clean and renewed condition
(ii). W alls of each room of the aerated water manufactory place shall not be less than
3metres in height
(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other
rooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal
sheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.
(iv). Each room of the aerated water manufactory place shall be ceiled in height not less
than 3metres from floor level.
(v). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves shall be at least 1
meter
(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii). A sufficient drainage system to drain off waste water flowing from rooms
manufacturing soft drinks from washing empty bottles and from bathrooms of the
employees shall be put in place ;
(ix). While at least one room shall be reserved for storing types of syrup, other chemicals,
bottles used to can soft drinks or other kinds of packing materials, sufficient
safety measures shall be put in place to maintain the room devoid of rat and other
insects ;
Name of  By-
Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-
Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-16)

<!-- page 111 -->

111AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(x). A quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board on the
suitability of the water used for the manufacture of soft drinks for human consumption
shall have been obtained. Further this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once
in every six months. In the event of the water being supplied by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board is used for the manufacture of soft drinks it shall be
presumed that this certificate has been obtained ;
(xi).  In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft drinks and activities connected
therewith being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of
water stored shall be put in place ;
(xii). Place used for the washing of empty bottles shall be located separate from the rooms
manufacturing soft drinks. Further  only water issued with a quality certificate mentioned
in paragraph (x) above shall be used for such activities ;
(xiii). Separate containers or tanks shall be kept to accommodate waste material generated
due to the activities of the soft drinks manufacture, in the manner set out in this by-
Law No. 12.
(xiv). While the employees of the factory shall be allocated lavatories in the proportion of
at least one for each group of ten employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside for
males and females. Moreover, such lavatories shall be located at a distances away
from the rooms manufacturing soft drinks to avoid direct contact in order to maintain
hygiene.
(xv). Suction pit, fertilizer pit or ash pit shall be located more than 18 meters away from a
room where soft drinks are manufactured or from a place where water used for the
manufacture of soft drinks is being stored in the event of such water being stored in an
underground water tank.
(6)  It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No. 4 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7)  The floor of every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks shall be washed at least
once a day.
(8)  Every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks and its environment, drains, furniture
and instruments shall be kept in proper maintaining condition.
(9)  When cleaning bottles used to can soft drinks manufactured in a soft drink factory, a
minimum of two tanks, viz,
(i). one tank for the removal of labels previously fixed in the bottles and for the initial
cleaning, and
(ii). The other tank for the final cleaning of those bottles, shall be used and the final cleaning
shall be effected utilizing flowing water.
(10)  When any other kind or kinds of bottles other than those made of glass are utilized to can
soft drinks these bottles shall be used only once and it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that they are
produced from hygienically materials. In this matter a written certificate issued Medical Officer of Health
is considered sufficient.
(11)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety
materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on
duty at the soft drinks manufacturing factory.

<!-- page 112 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
112A
(12)  The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
No 12 in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more
than once a day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the
garbage is being put or removed.
(13) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows
a. Bio-degradable wastes;
b. Glass;
c. Paper or paper related materials;
d. Polythene, plastic or related materials;
e. Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
f. Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
g. Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.
(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer.
(14)  Every licensee of an aerated water manufactory shall keep affixed in a conspicuous posi-
tion on the outside of his premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Aerated Water Manu-
factory” legibly painted thereon Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(15)  Every licensee of an aerated water manufactory shall cause a copy of the licence, to be
framed and hung in a prominent place in the manufactory. He shall cause a list of the name and addresses
of all the employees, (including vendors of aerated water,) to be kept in the manufactory and to be avail-
able for inspection at all reasonable times by the Chairman or  Authorized Officer or any person autho-
rized by him.
(16)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premises
to a medical test at least once a year.
(17)  No person shall run an aerated water manufactories within the authority of the Urban
Council area, unless he or she has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or
Authorized Officer.
(18)  Unless the date of expiry of the syrups and other chemicals used in the manufacture of soft
drinks falls at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of soft
drinks at any time.
(19) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who
has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been  recently nursing
anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the period
mentioned on the medical report,  shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized
place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubation
period of the disease has lapsed ;
Tasks not to be
carried out
(17 – 20)

<!-- page 113 -->

113AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized
place, unless they are dressed in well washed clean clothes ;
(20)  While non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used to store syrup and other types
of chemicals used in the manufacture of soft drinks, these materials shall not be kept outside unless they
are kept in the soft drink manufacturing room for the manufacture of soft drinks.
(21)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, to
purchase a sample of any kind of soft drinks manufactured at any manufactory, kept for sale or displayed
for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.
(22)  In the event of the premises where a soft drinks manufactory is maintained under a licence
issued under the By-Laws any licensee contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairmanor Autho-
rized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish neces-
sary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(23)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance,  the Secretaryhas the authority
to charge for annual licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated  to run  aerated water manu-
factory.
(24)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council.
(25)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity has been cancelled
earlier.
(26)  The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these
By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(27)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairmanor Authorized Officer
or any authorized officer.
(28)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 22, shall act as stipulated
in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or
Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not
be exceeded 14 days.
(29)  The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for
the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 26 fails to act as stipu-
lated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(30)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officerand proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(31)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
Functions of the
Urban Council
(21 – 22)
Charges and
fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or
permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers
(26 – 29)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
laws

<!-- page 114 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
114A
(32)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).
(33)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires.
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as UrbanChairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils
for Urbanity
“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measures under these
provisions.
“Aeratedwater” means types of drinks manufactured using one type or all types of fruits, es-
sence and syrups, and canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall also include soda
water.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition
SCHEDULE -01
APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS TAX / LICENCE 20….. FOR CONDUCTING AERATED WATER MANUFACTORY WITHIN
THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL
1. Name of the Business centre:-
2. Place of the Business centre:-
(i). W ard No.:-
(ii). Assessment No.:-
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

<!-- page 115 -->

115AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Permanent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv). NIC No.:-
(v). T elephone No.:-
(vi). e-mail Address:-
4.
(i). Date of Beginning
(ii). T ype of business:
(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:
(iv). Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
(i). Name of the Owner:
(ii). Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

<!-- page 116 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
116A
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(1). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(2). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(3). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 117 -->

117AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ……………………………….                                 …………………………………………
                         Date                                                                      Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
……………………………….                                     …………………………………………
                         Date                                                                                         Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
……………………………….                                     …………………………………………
                         Date                                                       Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 118 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
118A
CHAPTER  6
PART I - STANDARD BY - LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULA TE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE, ADMINIS-
TRATE AND CONTROL OF PUBLIC MARKETS WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN
COUNCIL
(1)  By-laws in this part may be cited as standard By-laws relating to the conduct, regularize,
administrate and supervise the public markets within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of providing market facilities and selling and
purchasing of goods facilities for the residing within the limits of the   Urban Council
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157
(11) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 136-152 and 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance
(4) (i). It shall be the duty of the tenant of any shopping stall in the public market or any
person who has obtained a ticket to use any trading platform to categorize all the
waste generated at the shopping stall or nearby or on the trading platform or nearby
under the categories of, -
a) biodegradable waste;
b) glass;
c) paper or paper related matter;
d) polythene or plastics or materials related to polythene or plastics and regiform;
e) iron and other kinds of metal or pieces of iron and other metals;
f) dangerous waste; and to dump them into separate containers or receptacles or
tanks constructed by the Urban Council to dump each kind of garbage.
(ii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officerto take action to keep in
suitable places of the public market small scale containers which facilitate disposal
of garbage categorized under paragraph (i), for dumping garbage disposed of by the
visitors to the public market. Meanwhile action shall be taken to dump the contents of
these containers at sufficient time intervals into containers or receptacles or tanks
relevant to garbage stated in paragraph (i).
(iii). No body shall dump garbage of any kind other than those categorized to be dumped
into a particular container, receptacle or tank placed in the public market to collect
garbage;
(iv). Except when garbage is dumped or taken out of the container or receptacle or tank
constructed for the dumping of biodegradable garbage under the provisions of paragraph
(i) of By-laws, under this section, the lid of that container or receptacle or tank shall
be tightly closed always.
(5)  It shall be the duty of the person engaged in sales activities at every trading stall and trading
platform selling or exhibiting for sale vegetables, fruits, meat, fish or other kinds of food or beverages to
suitably wash or scratch and clean or cause anyone else to wash or scratch and clean at the end of the day’s
activities every trading stall, table, bench, plank displaying goods and cupboard.
(6)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to clean
by washing using disinfectants every lavatory and urinal within the premises of the public market at least
thrice a day and to clean by washing every drain constructed to allow free flow of water at least twice a
day.
Name of By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed(4-32)

<!-- page 119 -->

119AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(7)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to
remove at least once a day or on more occasions if necessary, the garbage accumulated in every
container, receptacle or tank constructed in the manner specified in the paragraph (xxiv) of By-laws
No. 61and paragraph (i) of By-Law No 4. Moreover, action shall be taken to transport such garbage out of
the premises in a vehicle having fully covered the part containing such garbage.
(8)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to
remove at least once a day the soil or sand or other matter accumulated at the place allocated for washing
vegetables or fruits and to prevent obstacles to the free flow of water at that place.
(9)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to
examine at least once a daywhether the functioning of the firefighting equipment fixed at the public
market is in order and to fix new equipment in place of those rendered non functional.
(10) (i). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to
apply paints at least once a year on all the walls of the trading stalls except the inner
walls, the parts plastered with cement in every trading platform with parapet wall
constructions made with galvanized iron and other parts of the ceilings except the
inner ceiling of the trading stalls in the public market;
(ii). It shall be the duty of the tenant of the trading stalls to apply paints at least once a year
on the inner walls of the trading stalls, the constructions made with galvanized iron
and the inner ceiling of the trading stalls in the public market.
(11)  The Urban Council shall determine from time to time the dates and time the public market
maintained by the Urban Council shall be kept open. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or  an Authorized
Officer to make arrangements to publish a notification in all the three languages as to what the dates and
times the public market is opened and to prominently display such a notification at the entrance to the
public market, as determined by the Urban Council. It is not determined by the Urban Council, the market
shall be opened from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m.
(12) (i). Every person who needs to use or utilize any trading platform built outside the shopping
stalls of the public market shall obtain a valid ticket issued under the authority or upon
it under the provisions of the By-laws in this part;
(ii). The ticket issued under the provision in paragraph(i) shall be substantially prepared
according to the specimen given in the First Schedule 1
(13) (i). It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to perform the task of selecting a tenant to
use or utilize any shopping stall in the building of the public market, being not a meat
stall and to lease it out to the tenant through public tender;
(ii). When calling for tenders to rent out any shopping stall under paragraph (i) the decision
on the monthly rental payable for the said shopping stall shall be made in accordance
with the valuation of the Chief Valuation Officer.
(iii). a) The occasion that arises when the tenant has on his own free will got the agreement
repealed; or
b) The occasion that arises when the tenancy agreement has been repealed or being
repealed due to violation of the provisions of the By-Laws in this part or violation
of the conditions of the tenancy agreement or

<!-- page 120 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
120A
c) The occasion when the tenant has died leaving no spouse or child, shall be
considered as the occasions when tenders shall be called to select a tenant under
paragraph (i).
(iv). Meanwhile, unless any tenant has rejected validation of the said tenancy agreement
for any subsequent year or willfully avoid such opportunity for validation as per the
conditions specified in By-Law No 55, it shall not be considered that the tenancy
agreement signed by the Urban Council and the tenant has been invalidated.
(14)  The tenant selected to use or utilize any shopping stall, through public tender under the
provisions of By- Law No.13 shall enter into an agreement with the Urban Council.
(15)  Notwithstanding anything stated in By-law No. 13 it shall be lawful to consider the tenant
mentioned in the tenancy agreement signed lately with the Urban Council in respect of each shopping
stall in any public market owned by the Urban Council on the date the By-laws in this part come into
force, as the tenant selected to use or utilize the said shopping stall under By-law 13 effective from the
date of such enforcement. Moreover, any tenant in respect of whom these By-laws is relevant further,
shall enter into a new tenancy agreement within a period of three months from the date of this  By-Laws
are effective as per By-Law No 16 .
(16) (i). While any agreement signed with the Urban Council under the provisions of By-laws
No. 14 and 15 shall be valid only for a period of one year, the period of validity of the
tenancy of the said shopping stall can be extended for a further period of one year on
arriving at a new agreement with the Urban Council for the subsequent year, before
one month of the expiry of the said period of one year. The tenant shall have the right
to use or utilize the said shopping stall after getting the period of tenancy of the said
shopping stall validated annually for any subsequent year in the same manner;
(ii). However, it shall be the duty of the Urban Council to decide in accordance with the
valuation of the Chief Valuation Officer, the monthly rental that shall be paid during
the said subsequent year for the use and utilization of the said shopping stall by any
tenant having validated the period of tenancy under paragraph (i).
(17)  Different places shall be allocated for sales of vegetable, fruits or any other different kind
of articles.
(18)  Obtaining annual trade licence for the year, is the duty of stall holders in the public market
and private market.
(19)  All conditions are applicable to the platform sale of fish when they are accommodated
within the market premises.
(20) (i). Chicken & meat sellers shall take action to dispose the garbage generates at their
stalls as specified in by Law No 5.
(ii). It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to reserve a separate place for sale of poultry
within the market.
(21) (i). No person other than the person holding a licence, or his agent or servant whose name
has been duly registered as such in the Urban Council Office and to whom a card of
registration has been issued by the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer shall sell, use,
or occupy and part thereof in a market or sell goods therein. Also, before obtaining
the licence, the licensee  and his employees shall get into  a medical check-up in each
year and that medical report shall be submitted to the Chairman or  an Authorized
Officer

<!-- page 121 -->

121AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(ii). Every stall holder who is desirous of employing any person as his agent or servant at
his stall shall make application in that behalf to the Chairman. Every such application
shall be accompanied by two copies of National Identity Card.
(iii). The Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall, upon receipt of that application, issue
such person a duly numbered card of registration to which shall be affixed one copy
of the National Identity Card forwarded with the application. The other copy of National
Identity Card shall be kept with the Medical Officer of Health.
(iv). Every person to whom a card of registration has been issued under these By-Laws
shall, on demand by any officer of the Urban council, produce such card for the purpose
of inspection.
(v). A card of registration issued under these By-Laws may be cancelled at any time by the
Chairman, if he considers it necessary so to do.
(vi). Where in any change of employment, the licensee shall inform that to the Chairman
or an Authorized Officer in writing.
(22)  Every person having a licence to hold or occupy a stall in any market or holding a specially
licence to sell meat, fish or other articles in any place of business other than a public Market, and for
which such special licence may be lawfully issued under the provision of this part , shall be bound to keep
such stall or place of business open to the public daily between the hours of 5.00 a.m. and 9.00 p.m.,any
person who shall close such stall or place of business or shall willfully neglect or refuse to serve the
public during two consecutive  days without written approval  of the Chairman or  anAuthorized Officer,
shall be guilty of an offence, and it shall be lawful for the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer to suspend
or revoke the licence of any person convicted as aforesaid, and to refuse thereafter to grant any such
licence to any such person  Also, a stall or the business place shall be taken into the possession of  the
Council.
(23)  Any officer authorized by the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer shall be employed to
issue tickets to and to levy money on those tickets, any person who needs to use or utilize trading plat-
forms except trading stalls in the public market. Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the Authorized
Officer to take action to credit money collected daily on issuing such tickets to the common fund of the
Urban Council before 3.00 p.m. on each day of collection. If any money collected on issuing tickets at
the public market after action has been taken by the Authorized Officer to credit the money collected in
the common fund of the Urban  Council on a certain day is still left, such money shall be credited to the
Urban  common fund of the Council on the following day.
(24)  In the event of the inability to employ any officer authorized by the Chairman or  an
Authorized Officer to issue tickets to and collect money from any person wishes to use or utilize the
trading platforms in the public market, except trading stalls, in the manner set out in By-Laws No. 23, the
Urban Council shall have the power to allocate the task to a person selected on calling public tenders,
hereinafter referred to as the “Lessee”.
(25)  While assignment of duties for any Lessee selected under By-Law No. 24 shall be valid
only for one year, a lessee shall be selected again for the following year through tenders.
(26) (i). When a lessee has been selected under the provisions of By-laws No. 25, he shall take
action to –
(a) deposit in the Urban Council a refundable security deposit in a value decided
upon by the Urban Council at the time of calling tenders for such selection;
(b) arrive at an agreement with the Urban Council in respect of issuing such tickets
and collecting money;

<!-- page 122 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
122A
(c) deposit in the Urban Council a deposit equal to one third or more of the annual
fees agreed upon by the agreement signed under theprovision of sub-paragraph
(ii).
(ii). Unless the provisions set out in paragraph (i) have been fulfilled in the manner stated
therein, nobody shall be allowed to use or utilize trading platforms in any public market
being maintained by the Urban Council, to issue tickets to the people willing to engage
in trading and to collect money for such tickets.
(27)  It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to include the following as accepted conditions in
the agreement to be signed by the Urban Council  with any lessee according to sub-paragraph (b) in
paragraph (i) of By-laws No. 26 :–
(i). the manner in which tickets shall be issued in order to use or utilize trading platforms;
(ii). the manner in which money shall be collected for the said tickets and the maximum
amount of money that shall be charged;
(iii). the total amount of money to be paid by the Lessee to the Urban Council for the year
of agreement;
(iv). the fact that the said annual money shall be paid to the Urban Council in twelve equal
instalments and the value of one such instalment ;
(v). the date on which the money that shall be paid for each month is to be paid to the
Urban Council ;
(vi). the fact that the lessee is required to pay to the Urban Council a late fee amounting to
ten percent of the monthly charges in the event of failure to pay that money on the due
date;
(vii). the termination of the power vested in the lessee to issue tickets to those willing to
use or utilize trading platforms in the public market and charge money on behalf of
these tickets from the date of the receipt of a notification from the Chairman or  an
Authorized Officer in writing on the fact that the agreement is subject to cancellation
under the provisions of the By-Law No. 28 and that the agreement has been declared
null and void in the event of the failure to pay the money due to be paid to the Urban
Council for a period of more than three months.
(28) (i). It shall be the duty of the  anAuthorized Officer to hand over a notification in writing
to the lessee demanding the payment of the arrears and late fees in the event of the
failure of the Lessee to pay to the Urban Council the monthly dues and when the
arrears are for a period of more than three months.
(ii). In the event of the failure of any Lessee to pay to the Urban Council the arrears of
payments and the late fees within seven days of the receipt of a notification under
paragraph (i) the agreement signed by the Urban Council with the relevant Lessee
shall be considered to be rendered null and void with effect from the expiry of seven
days from the receipt of that notification by him, and such cancellation shall be lawful.
Moreover, it shall be the duty of an Authorized Officer to inform in writing to the
relevant Lessee about the cancellation of the said agreement on the day it is considered
cancelled.

<!-- page 123 -->

123AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(iii). The Lessee who was a party to any agreement cancelled under the provisions of the
provisions in paragraph (ii) shall not, on any occasion after the cancellation of that
agreement issue tickets to anybody or collect money for such tickets from anybody
to use or utilize the trading platforms of the said public market.
(iv). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to employ any Authorized
Officer of the Urban Council to issue tickets and collect money on behalf of those
tickets to use or utilize the trading platforms of the public market with effect from the
day after the day of the cancellation of any agreement under provisions in paragraph
(ii). Moreover, in the event of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer being of opinion
that it is not possible to get the task performed any further by an Authorized Officer,
he shall forward his opinion to the Urban Council through the Chairman in order to
take action according to the provisions in By-laws No.24. When the opinion of the
Chairman has been forwarded to the Council in the above manner the Urban Council
shall take a decision to take action in accordance with By-laws No. 24.
(v). On any occasion when the Urban Council has come to a decision to act in accordance
with By-law No. 24  as set out in paragraph (iv), the Lessee who was a party to the
cancelled agreement shall have no right to submit a tender application in accordance
with the said tender notice.
(29)  Everybody engaged in trading activities in shopping stalls and trading platforms in any
private market shall obey the provisions in these By-Law. Furthermore it shall be the duty of the licensee
of that market to ensure that the said persons obey these provisions.
(30)  It shall be the duty of the licensee of every private market to obey the provisions in these
By law No 32
(31)  The following terms contained in the By-Laws shall convey the meaning given against it for
the purposes of this By-laws, in respect of any private market :-
(i). “public market” means the said private market;
(ii). “T enant” means the person engaged in business at any shopping stall in the said private
market or his agent or the person in charge of the said shopping stall for the time
being ;
(iii). “Chairman” or “an Authorized Officer”” means the licensee of the said private market
or his substitute or the agent or person in charge of the functions and duties of the said
private market for the time being.
(32)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to display prominently at the entrance of the said private
market a notice or notices in all the three languages about the dates and time on which any private market
a notice or notices in all the three languages about the days and time on which any private market is kept
open.
(33)  It shall not be lawful for any person to do any of following acts :
(i). Being a person holding a licence or ticket for a stall or space in public market or being
servant or agent of any such person to subject any person resorting to such market to
unnecessary and vexatious annoyance or  delay.
(ii). To carry on any cooking in a public market
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 33 – 60)

<!-- page 124 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
124A
(iii). To behave in a disorder manner, or beg or commit any nuisance in any public market or
the premises appertaining thereto.
(iv). To remain in a public market after the place has been closed for business at 9 p.m.
without being able to give a satisfactory reason.
(v). To damage or in any way deface any portion of the buildings, stalls, lamps. or any
property of the Council in or about a public market, or defile or pollute in any way, or
waste or bathe himself in or wash any clothes or animal in the water provided for use
in such public market.
(vi). Fixing any advertising boards of any form other than the name board of the shopping
stall, display banners or do any other type of advertising unless formally allowed by
the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer;
(vii). Excreting  at any place other than the lavatory or urinal.
(viii). No person shall obtain brokerage from the farmer for sales of agricultural products.
(ix). Selling dried goods at the platform sale except the agricultural products.
(34)  To make any noise, to fight or quarrel, or use insulting, abusive, or obscene language within
any public market or the premises appertaining thereto. Any person contravening these By-Laws shall be
turned out by the Market-keeper or his assistant other person authorized thereto.
(35)  No person shall expose, or hawk about for sale any fish, chicken, beef, mutton, or other
meat or offal in any place or street within the Limits of the Urban Council (except at a public market
provided by the Council) without a special licence from the Council, or contrary to the tenant of such
licence. Further no person shall sell within a radius of 0.5 kilometer from a public market without special
licence as decided by the Council for chicken, meat and fish .Further no person shall expose or hawk
about for sales vegetables (including coconut) and any other kind of food at any place within a radius of
0.5 kilometer from the public market except special licence authorized by a resolution of Urban Council.
While the radius of market is not decided by the Urban Council the radius means 0.5 kilometer from the
market. The Urban Council may decide radius less than 0.5 kilometer and shall declare.
(36)  No person shall, within the market area sell edible fish, other than shell fish, except by
weight.
(37)  No person shall keep or sell in a public market any type of things or other than what is
specified in the licence or ticket. No person shall sell or expose for sale any meat or offal either in a
public market or in a place specially licensed under By-Law No 22 without a pass issued to him under By-
Law No 35 of this part. And it shall be lawful for any authorized Urban Officer or a Police Officer to
demand the produce of such passes from any person selling or exposing meat for sale, and on failure of
produce to seize any meat in such market without such pass, or contrary to the terms thereof, and to
remove the same to the Urban Office or to a Police Station to be disposed of as may be directed by the
Judge or decided by the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer.
(38)  No person shall sell any chicken without proper licence at any stall in the public market.
(39)  No person shall keep or use or occupy or hold any stall, shop, or other place in a public
market unless he is a person or the agent of a person having the permission of the Chairman or an Autho-
rized Officer to exercise the powers of Urban Chairman under the Urban Council Ordinance to sell or
expose for sale any article at such stall, shop or place.

<!-- page 125 -->

125AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(40)  Space properly marked and numbered shall be set apart in every public market for the sale
of vegetables, fruits and other articles by persons paying such daily fee as the Chairman or Urban Chair-
man may from time to time determine.  No person shall occupy any such space without having obtained a
ticket, or sell or expose for sale or sale any vegetables fruits or other articles not specified in his ticket.
A ticket signed by any person authorized thereto in writing by the Chairman or An Authorized Officer
shall be issued to each person who pays such fee.
(41)  No person shall transfer to any other person a licence or ticket   issued to him for any stall
or space in a public market , or shall sublet any such stall or space or  any part  thereof  and no person shall
use, or hold, or occupy any stall use or space or any part thereof  under any alleged transfer without the
permission of the Chairman or Urban Chairman
(42)  No person holding a ticket for any space in any public market shall under any pretext
whatsoever allow or permit any other person to use or occupy such space or any part thereof, or to sell or
expose for sale any goods, articles, or things of any description whatsoever
(43)  No person other than a ticket-holder shall use or occupy any space or any part thereof in a
public market or sell or expose goods therein.
(44)  Being a person affected with any loathsome or contagious or infectious disease, to occupy
any stall, seat, space in any public or private market, or expose or carry about for sale in such market, or
in any street within the Limits of the Urban Council any article whatsoever, no person shall employ in any
capacity in any public or private market any person affected with any such disease. No person so affected
shall enter any market .Any such person may be expelled from the market premises.
(45)  No person holding a licence  for any stall in the public market shall under any pretext
whatsoever suffer or permit any other person to use or occupy such stall or any part thereof, or to sell or
expose for sale any goods, articles, or thing of any description whatsoever without the authority of the
Urban Chairman
(46)  No person holding a licence or ticket for any stall or space in a public market shall use, or
occupy, or permit or allow any person acting or on his behalf  to use or occupy, and no agent or servant of
person holding such licence or ticket shall use or occupy any stall or space or any ground beyond the
limits of the stalls or space rented by him
(47)  No person shall throw rubbish, refuse bones, skins of animals or such like item or upon any
public market or its premises into or any drain on or near  the market promises, except into a receptacle
provided f or such purpose.
(48)  Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, no carcass of any animal (of any portion
thereof) not slaughtered at a Local Authority slaughter house shall be brought into a public or private
market, or to any place specially licensed as provided in By-Law No 22 of this part, or sold or exposed
for sale in any public market or private market or in such specially licensed place. The provisions of these
By-Laws shall not apply to meat, game or fish imported into the Island, Meat, game or fish so imported
shall be sold in any place specially licensed therefor
(49)  No person shall bring a dog into a market or allow any dog belonging to him or in his charge
to be on any part of any market
(50) (i). In case of any materials or goods brought into the public market for sale or any
instrument or anything else used in trading activities, they shall not be kept or allowed
to be kept on any corridor or platform bank except when they are brought into the
market or taken out of it.

<!-- page 126 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
126A
(ii).  While no type of trading activities shall be pursued in a corridor or on a platform
bank inside the public market, any action causing disturbances to persons walking
along the pavements, reserved places, corridors or over the platform banks or the
steps shall not be done.
(51)  Unless the Urban Council has come to a decision and given permission for the particular
activity nobody shall undertake any type of construction or fixture or alteration or partitioning that would
alter or damage the overall plan of any shopping stall in the public market.
(52)  Nobody shall erect a trading platform or make a partitioning in any place within the public
market.
(53)  Unless somebody is a holder of a valid ticket issued under the provisions of the By-Law No
12 or his or her employee or a agent of him or her and comply with the orders and conditions of the By-
laws in this part, nobody shall use or utilize a trading platform built outside the shopping stalls of the
public market. Further no person shall keep any of that place after time fixed for closing of market.
(54)  Unless somebody is a person who has entered into a tenancy agreement with the Urban
Council under the provisions of the By-Laws in this part or his employee or sub-agent and comply with
the orders and conditions of the By-Laws in this part and the said tenancy agreement, nobody shall use or
utilize any shopping stall in the public market.
(55)  Unless action has been taken to get validated the period of tenancy for the subsequent year
under By-Laws No. 16 before the expiry of one month from the date of the expiry of the period of
tenancy of any shopping stall, no tenant shall have the right to use or utilize the said shopping stall after
the expiry of the last day of the said month.
(56)  Nobody shall take action to sublet any shopping stall in the public market. Any loss or harm
or damage caused to any sub-tenant as a result of the cancellation of the agreement entered into between
the Urban Council and the tenant of the said shopping stall due to subletting of any shopping stall by
anybody and as a result of vesting back the said shopping stall to the Urban Council shall be vested with
the said sub-tenant. Meanwhile the Urban Council or the Chairman or Chairman or the Authorized Officer
shall not be subjected to responsibility in this regard.
(57)  Nobody shall obtain or allow anybody else to obtain an electricity connection or water
connection to a shopping stall from any electrical circuit or common water tap put in place for public use
in the premises of the public market.
(58) (i). Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 62.
(ii). It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the
provisions for private market and any person in the public market, to the Chairman or
an Authorized Officer for inspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop such
inspection.
(59)  No person shall do as being a Market-keeper or lessee of a public market or any person
employed under him, to demand or receive a greater rent, toil, or fee than that authorized to be received,
or to give any unnecessary or vexatious annoyance to any person under presence of performing any duty
or exercising any authority imposed or conferred upon him.
(60)  No licence shall be issued for any private market by the Chairman or UrbanChairman
unless required conditions specified in this By-Law for a public market has been duly fulfilled.

<!-- page 127 -->

127AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(61)  The Urban Council shall obey the following directives in these By-laws in regard to any
public market constructed and maintained by the Urban Council, viz:
(i). While all permanent buildings of the public market shall be built with bricks, cement
blocks or any other approved stones  the height of the walls shall be at least three
metres from the ground level.
(ii). The roof shall be made of some permanent material.
(iii). While the roof of the inner shopping stalls shall be fitted with ceilings the ceilings
shall be at a height of at least 3 metres from the ground level.
(iv). While the front side of the inner shopping stalls shall contain a corridor at least 2.5
meters wide, the place where each shopping stall meets the corridor shall contain a
collapsible door or a door that could be removed as planks.
(v). Platform banks and drains carrying away rain water, at least one meter in width shall
have been constructed at the outer boundary of the walls and the outer boundary of the
corridor of the building containing the shopping stalls.
(vi). T rading platforms shall have been constructed for temporary traders outside the
shopping stalls of the building.
(vii). Every trading platform constructed inside the building shall consist of a floor board
made of concrete sheet or stainless metal sheet placed on a bank made with bricks or
cement blocks or any other approved stone. However,when it is not possible to
construct trading platforms in this manner the floor board is made with cement blocks
or any other approved stones,it shall be plastered with cement or tiled. The flat spaces
shall be allocated on the floor and each section shall be demarcated in white paint.
(viii). The area of each trading platform shall not be less than two square metres.
(ix). While a roof covering each trading platform and constructed at a height of at least
2.25 metres above the floor level on posts made with bricks or cement blocks or any
other approved stones or galvanized iron bars or reinforced aluminum bars shall be
made available the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2.1 metres above the floor
level. Moreover, when these posts are constructed with bricks or cement blocks or
any other approved stones they shall be plastered and applied with paints and if they
are constructed with galvanized iron bars they shall be painted.
(x).  While every roof shall be constructed with solid materials sufficient pipes shall have
been fixed to drain away water accumulated in the gutters.
(xi). The platform bank at least one metre in width, shall have been constructed on the
ground around every trading platform.
(xii). While a quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board
on the suitability of the water used in the premises for human consumption shall have
been obtained this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six months.
In the event of the water being supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board is used at the premises it shall be presumed that this certificate has
been obtained;
Functions of the
Local
Authority(61-64)

<!-- page 128 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
128A
(xiii). In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft drinks and activities of the premises
being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water stored
shall be put in place;
(xiv).  While a sufficient number of separate lavatories and urinals shall have been constructed
for the use of the males and females the floor of every lavatory and the walls up to a
minimum of two metres above the floor level shall have been tiled.
(xv). While sufficient electricity shall have been provided to all shopping stalls, trading
platforms, lavatories and urinals and to all common areas including the corridors every
electric circuit shall have been covered with a bad conductor covering.
(xvi). While every shopping stall shall have been fixed with an electricity meter each a
separate meter shall have been fixed to measure the electricity units spent for the
electrification of common areas.
(xvii). Common water taps to obtain water shall have been fixed within the premises.
(xviii). A separate area shall have been allocated to wash vegetables and fruits.
(xix). Water supplies shall have been provided to each shopping stall that requires water due
to the nature of their business. While a separate water meter each shall have been
fixed for each of these supply points a separate water meter each shall have been fixed
to measure the consumption of water at common taps and at the places allocated for
the washing of vegetables and fruits.
(xx). While a sufficient system of drains shall have been provided to enable free flow of
water accumulated from rain water directly falling on the floor and the roofs and
water disposed of, from the place allocated for the washing of vegetables and fruits
arrangements shall have been provided to allow free flow of such waste water.
(xxi). While a sufficient fire protection programme shall have been put in place, action shall
have been taken to fix different types of firefighting equipment necessary for the
control of fire generated from electric circuits, fire caused by fuels and fire generated
due to any other reason.
(xxii). A standard common scale shall have been kept at a separate and prominent place with
a view to weighing and ensuring the weight of the goods purchased by the consumers.
(xxiii). It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to separate the market into sections for sale
of meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, groceries and other commodities, having taken into
consideration the location of the shopping stalls of the common market and also to
separate the trading platforms in the same manner.
(xxiv). While tanks, receptacles or containers that could accommodate waste generated in
the premises and categorized as:
(a) biodegradable waste ;
(b) glass ;
(c) paper or paper related materials ;
(d) polythene and plastics or materials related to polythene and plastics ;

<!-- page 129 -->

129AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(e) iron and other metals or pieces of iron and other metals ;
(f) dangerous waste ;
shall have been constructed in a separate area of the public market the receptacle or
tank constructed to collect bio-degradable garbage shall be provided with a lid that
could be tightly closed so that rats, animal,  flies, insects or any type of bird could
gain entry into it.
(xxv).  Sufficient parking facilities shall be provided to the bicycles, motor bicycles and the
motor vehicles of consumers as well as those transporting goods.
(xxvi). It shall be duty of the Chairman or Urban Chairman to provide a separate and common
place to sell retail and whole sale of agricultural products to farmers. Further , it shall
be the duty of farmer to follow procedures specified in these By-Laws
(xxvii). The layout of the public market shall be display at a conspicuous place in the public
market where the public can easy see. Further all section of the market such as stall
section, flat form sellers section fish market, meat stall section and agricultural
products sale section shall be shown in this Lay- out of the public market.
(62)  While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or Chairman or an Authorized Officer to purchase
a sample of any kind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale in the premises of any public market or any
private market.
(63)  It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to ensure that the platform sellers and stall holders
are selling the item as specified in the agreement accordance with the Lay-out of the public market.
(64)  Slope steps and hand holders shall be fitted with the building for the disable persons to
proceed into the market with their wheel
(65) (i). It shall be lawful to the Urban Chairman  to recover rent from the stall holder
accordance with the valuation made by Chief valuer and agreement made with tenancy
(ii). It shall be lawful to the Secretary to recover fees from the person who are using the
selling platform as specified in schedule ii accordance with Urban council decision
and to recover fees less than 5% of the total sales from the person/ farmers who are
using common and opened place to sell their product. Further it shall be lawful to the
Urban Chairman to assign the recovery of fees on annual lease to the lessee and to
recover the lease according to the agreement as specified in this paragraph. However
details of all fees shall be published in the Government Gazette of Sri Lanka.
(iii). Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the
authority to charge for  licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated   to
conduct private market
(iv). Twenty five percent out of whole sale tax recovered from the agricultural products
brought the private market for sale at the rate decided by the Urban Council (as per
paragraph (ii)) shall be paid to the Urban Council, A separate agreement also shall be
made with the private market holders.  The receipts books approved by the Urban
Council only shall be used for their collections by the private market holders.  This
By-Laws is applicable to private fish market also.
Charges and fees

<!-- page 130 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
130A
(66)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(67)  V alidity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31 st
December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(68)  The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer of the provisions of the By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when a public market or a
private market is opened for business activities.
(69)  It shall be lawful to Urban Council to issue or refuse a licence for the application   with the
consideration of public benefit to conduct private market within the Urbancouncil area. In the event of the
premises where any private market is maintained under a licence issued under the By-laws of this part
fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4 to be read with
By-Law No. 61 or contravenes the provisions of any By-laws of the by-laws set out in this part the
Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him
to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a
specified date.
(70)  Any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No 69 shall act in the manner
prescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have
been forwarded in writing the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall have the power to extend the date
specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than fourteen days.
(71)  When any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-laws No. 70 fails to act in accor-
dance with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it
shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
(72)  If any dispute arises concerning any stall, space, bin, rent or fee, it shall be competent to
them as to him, Chairman or an Authorized Officer to determine the same and make such order thereon as
to him may seem proper.
(73)  Any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.
(74)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws is
an offence.
(75)  Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(76)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected asChairman by the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance.
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
licence or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers (68-71)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism(72-73)
Violation of
By-laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 131 -->

131AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of  Urban Council.”
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
”Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Laws
of the public Market and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the
person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.
“Spouse” means the legal wife or husband of any lessee;”
Public Market” means any place where shopping stalls constructed for the purpose of engaging
in sales or where facilities are put in place for the sale of goods and commodities including
vegetables or fruits produced in their gardens or home gardens and a place erected and being
maintained by the Urban Council, and it shall also  include a place where any product is
bought or sold wholesale or retail.
“Private Market” means any place where activities similar to those carried out in a public market
are carried out by anybody or a body of persons or any cooperated body  not being the Urban
Council;
“Chief Valuation Officer” means the Chief V aluation Officer of the Department of Valuation and
it shall also include any officer appointed by the said Department on behalf of the Adminis-
trative District to which the Urban Council belongs;
“Tenant of a stall” means any person maintaining any shopping stall in any public market under an
agreement with the Urban  Council ;
“Trading platform” means any platform erected for the purpose of day to day sales within a
public market, separated from the shopping stalls in the said market, and it includes any place
demarcated for sales activities by drawing lines on the floor of the said public market.
“Lessee” means any person obtained public market on annual lease, issuing and collecting fees
for use of trading platform.
“Extent of the space allocated for trading purposes in any public market “means the section from
the back wall of the shopping stall up to the limit of the door stated in section 61 of this By-
Laws, in case of shopping stalls and the surface area of the trading platform and the area
behind the trading platform allowed to be used by the trader engaged in sales, in case of a
trading platform.
“Licensed premise” means place for which issued license to take all measures under this
provision.
“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make
business at the specified place.

<!-- page 132 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
132A
SCHEDULE I
… … … … … … … … … … … … … Urban Council … …
… … … … … Public Market
Ticket for the use or utilization of a trading platform
Name of the holder of the ticket: … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No. : … … … … … … … … … … … …
Number of the trading platform or the demarcated area: … … …
Duration of allotment:
From … … … 20… …… to … … … … … 20… … …
Number of days allotted: 01 day / 07 days / 01 month
Fees charged: Rs…………………
Date of issue: … … … … … … … 20… … … …
… … … … … … … … … …
Signature of the Tax Collector
(Strike off inapplicable words.)
S
CHEDULE II
By-law No. 29
Table of Fees charged for the use or utilization of a trading platform in a public market
Nature of the trading Fees for a day Fees for 7 days Fees for a month
platform Rs. Rs. Rs.
Trading platform built above
the floor level
Area separated by marking
on the floor

<!-- page 133 -->

133AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
URBAN  COUNCIL
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….... for Conducting Private Market
1. Name of the Market:-…………………………………………………………………………
2. Place of the Market:-
(i). Ward No.: …………………………..
(ii). Assessment No.:……………………………
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….
3.
(i). Full Name of the Applicant ……………
(ii).   Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………
(iii).  GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-……………………………………………..
(iv). NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………
(v). Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..
(vi). e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..
4.
(i). Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..
(ii).
(a) Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the  Market:-…………………………
(b) Telephones Number  of the Owner /Manager / Agent of Market:- ………………
5. If the land/ building is obtained on lease/rent.
(i). Name of the Owner:………………………………………………………
(ii). Address:-………………………………………………………………………….
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Y es:No:…………………..
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:…………………………………..
Date:…………………………………………

<!-- page 134 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
134A
7. As per Stated in the By-Law,
(i). Number of Trading Platforms:……………………………………………
(ii). Number of Stalls:……………………………………………………………
8. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the market:…………………………………………
9. Toilets :
(i). The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …
(ii). The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …
10. Water:
(i). Method/ methods and number of  method/ methods to provide drinking water to custom
ers:……………………………………………
(ii). Method/methods and number of method/methods to provide water to wash vegetables : ………………
… ……………………
11. Method/ methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
12.  Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply  with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Private Market/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant.
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head.

<!-- page 135 -->

135AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of revenue department,
1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Medical Officer of Health's Report :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Me dical Officer of Health
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date   Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 136 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
136A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Chairman/Authorized Officer
PART II-STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO SEIZURE, FORBID, REMOV AL AND DESTRUCTION
OF ARTICLES UNFIT FOR FOOD WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to seizure, forbid, removal and
destruction of articles unfit for food within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting public sanitation and health of
public residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  The By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the sub sections
157 (9) (g) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  It shall be the duty and responsibility of a licensed diary man to make application for obtain-
ing period and numbered card from the Chairman or authorized officer annually to all vendors
employed annually. Such card shall bear name, address and place of sale and a photograph of the vendor
shall be affixed herewith.
(5)  No person shall sell ,hawk or expose for sale of milk unless he has a card indicated his name
and issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer
(6)  No person  shall sell, hawk or expose milk for sales unless name of dairy man under whom
he is employed is still on the card at the time of sale, hawking or exposing of milk for sale
(7)  No person shall sell or cause to sell or expose to sell milk or milk products not having the
minimum of compositional requirements of milk as shown in schedule 01.
(8)  No person shall bring unfit food of any meat, fish, game, vegetable, fruit or other articles of
food within the limits of Urban Council for sale or exposing to sale.
(9)  No person shall add, mix ,stain, color or powder or order or permit any other person to add,
mix ,stain, color or powder any article with any ingredient or material so as to render the article injuries
to health with intent that to be sold in that state.
Name of  By-
Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed
Tasks not to be
carried out(05 –
15)

<!-- page 137 -->

137AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(10)  No person shall sell any such article so added, mixed, colored, strained or powdered.
(11)  No person shall sell any tinned or salted meat, fish or other article of food unfit for the
human consumption or lapsed.
(12)  No person shall sell or expose for sale milk from which the cream has been removed,
unless he previously informs the person to whom he sells or exposes it that the cream has been removed
(13)  No person shall expose for sale any cooked food, pastry, sweet meats, and confectionery
or preserved or dried fruit intended for human consumption unless he has taken all reasonable precau-
tions to protect it from dust, files and bad adours.
(14)  No person  shall sell any kind of spoiled adulterated full cream milk unfit for human
consumption
(15)  No person shall refuse to issue receipt for purchasing of tinned or salted meat, fish or
other articles of food by the Medical Officer of Health or V eterinary Surgeon or Authorized Officer of
the Urban Council.
(16)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to issue printed numbered
cards with serial number annually to all employees of the diary man on his request. A copy of photograph
of vendor affixed with card shall be kept at the office of Urban Council. Further name and address of dairy
man, time of sale, hawking and exposing of milk for sale shall be indicated in the card.
(17)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(18)  The Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or an Authorized Urban Officer may
at any time, demand and take for the purpose of analysis samples of any milk which is in possession of a
registered dairy man or any person who is found selling, hawking or exposing milk for sale and any
registered dairy man or other person who refuses to permit samples to be taken shall be guilty of an
offence.
(19)  If any person fails to produce such a card for inspection on demand by any Authorized
officer or Police Officer, he shall be guilty of an offence and such officer arrest him and shall convey
him fourth with after arrest to the nearest Police station. Officer incharge of the police station shall deal
with him as if he has been arrested by Police Officer without a warrant under the provision of criminal
procedure code. Such cards may be cancelled at any time by the Chairman, if it appears to him to be
necessary, in the interest of the public health.
(20) (i). It shall be lawful for the Medical Officer of Health or any Authorized Officer to enter
any place used for the manufacture or sale of aerated waters (cool drinks) at any time
when such place is opened and to purchase a sample bottle of any kind of aerated
water which is there manufactured or kept for sale and proprietor or person incharge
such business who shall refuse to permit such sample to be taken shall be guilty of an
offence. Such sample shall be forthwith forwarded to the City or Government Analyst
and the certificate issued by Government Analyst shall be as proof it to be unfit for the
human consumption.
(ii). In taking samples of milk, the Medical Officer of Health, V eterinary Surgeon or
Authorized Urban Officer shall take three samples and shall at once sealed them in the
presence of the registered dairy man or other person from whom there taken, and
Function of the
Urban Council
Delegation of
power
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (18 – 20)

<!-- page 138 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
138A
shall deliver one of such registered dairy man or other person, send the second to the
city or Government Analyst and third to the Urban Office. A certificate signed by such
city or Government Analyst, if state that the sample adulterated, shall be evidence that
the milk from which sample was taken, was adulterated. Should any evidence to the
contrary be offered, a certificate from the City or Government Analyst shall be
conclusive on the question adulteration.
(iii). The Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or an Authorized Urban Officer
as the case may be ,may enter any shop or other place where tinned or salted meat is
kept for sale , at any time when such shop or place is opened and seize any tinned or
salted meat which he reasonably suspects to be unfit for human food , and he shall
forthwith send such tinned or salted meat to the City or Government Analyst and the
certificate of such authorized analyst, if it states that tinned or salted meat is unfit for
human food ,shall be evidence of that fact until the contrary is proved and proprietor
or person incharge of the shop or places where such tinned or salted meat was seized,
shall unless contrary is so proved as stated above, be guilty of an offence
(21)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(22)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence.
(23) (i). Should any sample of milk taken under the provisions of the above said By-Laws
,prove to be adulterated ,the person in whose possession it is found shall be guilty of
an offence. If such person be a vendor of , or a person in the employ of or acting on
behalf of a dairy man, then both such person and dairy man shall be guilty of an offence.
(ii). It shall be lawful for the Urban Council Officer upon the Seizure by him unwholesome
or unfit for the human food of meat of cattle, poultry , fish , flesh, vegetable, fruits or
other articles of food introduced into or exposed for sale within the limits, to convey
the same to the Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or in their  absence,
to judge of court who has jurisdiction within the Urban limits and if it appears to the
Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary  Surgeon or the Urban Judge that meat ,
poultry ,fish ,game, vegetable, fruits or other articles of food are unfit for human
food, he shall order the them to be destroyed or to be disposed of as to prevent it
being used for food.
(iii). Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if
convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the
Urban limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the
Urban Council Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-
Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to
additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(24)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
”The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
”Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils.
”Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of By-
laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 139 -->

139AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
”The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
”Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of any By laws and
person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the
management of that place.
”Licensed premise “means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under the provi-
sion of any By-Laws.
”Aerated water” means types of drinks manufactured using one type or all types of fruits, es-
sence and syrups, and canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall also include soda water.
Annexure  -01
Compositional Requirements of milk
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Class of milk Designation Milk fat minimum Milk solids other than
percent milk fact minimum
 percent
  1. Buffalo Row,  pasteurised or 7.0 9.0
sterilised
  7. cow Do 3.5 8.5
  8. Standardised Pasteurised or sterilised 3.25 8.25
  9. Toned Do 2.0 8.5
10. Flavoured Do 2.0 7.2
11. Skimmed Do - 8.5
S
CHEDULE -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops andBeauty Centres
within the area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Business Center :-
2. Place of the Business Center:-
i. Ward No.:-
ii. Assessment No.:-
iii. Name of the Road/Street:-
iv. GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
i. Full Name:-
ii. Permanent Address:-
iii. GN Division No. & Name:-
iv. NIC No.:-
v . Telephone No.:-
vi. e-mail Address:-

<!-- page 140 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
140A
4. i. Date of Beginning the Business
ii. Name of the manager of the meat Stall:
iii. Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
i. Name of the Owner:
ii. Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head

<!-- page 141 -->

141AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of revenue department,
(iv). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(v). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(vi). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Off icer of Health
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… ……………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date   Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 142 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
142A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer
Name of By-Laws
Objective
Legislativee
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-15)
PART III - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELA TING TO FORMULA TE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE AND
CONTROL OF ANNOYING BUSINESS, DANGEROUS BUSINESS AND ANNOYING AND DANGEROUS
BUSINESS WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,
supervise and control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business
within the area of7 authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the sub section 157
(9) (n) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the duty
and obligation of the licensee.
(5)  The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous and
annoying business carrying by the Chairman, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.
(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition
(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height
(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approved
stones and plastered and painted in both sides.
(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres from
floor level

<!-- page 143 -->

143AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(v). W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room.  The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.
However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable
(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least  2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 metre max trail
(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.
(viii). Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and the
bins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into
them.
(ix). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, in
accordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws
(x). A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water
disposed from any section of the premises;
(xi). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage system
arrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the said
drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, action
shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be
treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without
mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the
constructed well.
(6)  It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as set
out under By-Law No 5 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.
(7)  The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.
(8)  The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law
No 9 in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more
than once a day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the
garbage is being put or removed.
(9) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall be
taken to segregate them as follows
(a) Bio-degradable wastes;
(b) Glass;
(c) Paper or paper related materials;
(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;
(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;
(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;
(g) Hazardous waste.
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separate
bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

<!-- page 144 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
144A
(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the manner
set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste management
launched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed
by the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer .
(10)  All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying or
effluvial.
(11)  All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering and
put in to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.
(12)  All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring from
the production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall be
disposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.
(13)  All license holders shall safely and keep in good manner the walls of business premises
without absorbing any dirty.
(14)  All license holders shall keep clean the baskets and other instruments use for business
activities, and should clean every day.
(15)  The tanks using for wash or dunk the leather or other things shall clean without spreading
any smell by the license holder.
(16)  No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerous
business carrying within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she has a valid licence
issued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in schedule 1 for the purpose of that,
issued by the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer .
(17)  It shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place for sleeping and taking
foods in night or day time by the licence holder or any person.
(18)  Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea or
any other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall not
pollute above mentioned places.
(19)  In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or danger-
ous and annoying business is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licensee contra-
venes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take
action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to re-
store the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(20)  The dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying businesses decided
by Urban Council are included in orderly in Schedules No. (I), (II) and (III). It is a duty of the Chairman or
an Authorized Officer to informing the applicant about issuing the license.
(21)  It is a duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to inform the applicant whether accept
to issue licence accordance with these By-Laws or reject with the reasons within 30 days of receiving an
application submitted by a person to him for obtaining a license for any business.
(22)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the authority
to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run   annoying business, danger-
ous business and annoying and dangerous business.
Tasks not to be
carried out
( 16 – 18)
Function of the
Local
Authority(19-21)
Charges and fees

<!-- page 145 -->

145AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(23)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(24)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(25)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or  an Authorized
Officer
(26)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No 19, shall act as
stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the
Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of
extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(27)  The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for
the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned By-Law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails
to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(28)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(29)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
is an offence.
(30) (i). Contraven tion or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if
convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the
Urban limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the
Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-
Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to
additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(ii). Every person who runs any business or trade specified in schedule 1, 2 and 3 without
licence at any place within the Limits of the Urban Council shall guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and in
case a continuing offence an additional fine not exceeding five hundred rupees per
each day during which said offence is continued after a conviction thereof in term of
section 3 of 147 of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(31)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of  Urban Councils
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman or an Autho-
rized Officer to carry out particular duty.
Delegation of
powers
Valid period of
licence or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers (25-27)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and Definition

<!-- page 146 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
146A
“ The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws
and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or
Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise” means, place for which is issued license to take all measures under these
provisions.
First Schedule - Annoying Businesses
1) Clearing and Storing Graphite.
2) Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.
3) Tanning of Leather.
4) Leather for selling.
5) Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or eggs).
6) Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.
7) Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.
8) Maintaining a veterinary hospital.
9) Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.
10) Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.
11) Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.
12) Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.
13) Drying tobacco.
14) Producing animal feed.
15) Producing Poonac.
16) Boiling meats with blood.
17) Producing soap
18) Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.
19) Making trunk boxes.
20) Keeping new and old metals.
21) Keeping ruined metals
22) Making housing furniture.
23) Making cane products.
24) Maintaining carpeting industry.
25) Making syrup or fruit juice.
26) Making sweets.
27) Dunking coconut husks
28) Producing brushes. (except tooth brush)
29) Producing tooth brush.
30) Collecting toddy.
31) Producing vinegar.
32) Cleaving timber.
33) Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.
34) Producing soda.

<!-- page 147 -->

147AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
35) Painting fibres.
36) Producing leather instruments.
37) Tin fish, fruits and other foods.
38) Powdering coffee and grains.
39) Producing baking powder.
40) Making gas mantels.
41) Producing putty.
42) Making camphor.
43) Making candle.
44) Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.
45) Producing blue of cloth washing.
46) Producing sealing wax.
47) Producing perfumes.
48) Producing shocks.
49) Producing tire or tubes.
50) Refill tires.
51) Vulcanizing tires.
52) Manufacturing cement.
53) Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.
54) Manufacturing sand papers.
55) Manufacturing plastic products.
56) Kilning bricks.
57) Weaving cloths by machines.
58) Manufacturing or re storing of acids.
59) Manufacturing of roofing tiles.
60) Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.
61) Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.
62) Manufacturing garments products.
63) Running a poultry farm.
64) Manufacturing disinfectant.
65) Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.
66) Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.
67) Manufacturing cigarette and cigarette with tobacco.
Second Schedule – Dangerous Businesses
1) Quarrying metal.
2) Making cool drinks (aerated water).
3) Making ice.
4) Manufacturing vegetable oils.
5) Manufacturing coconut oils.
6) Manufacturing or storing matches.
7) Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.
8) Manufacturing tea boxes.
9) Manufacturing coir or other fibers.
10) Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.

<!-- page 148 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
148A
11) Storing hay.
12) Storing used garments.
13) Manufacturing and repairing jewelries’.
14) Sawing timber by machines.
15) Quarrying lime stone.
16) Running a business using machines.
17) Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.
18) Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.
19) Storing used papers and newspapers.
20) Spray Painting.
21) Storing fire working or crackers.
22) Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)
23) Running a welding work shop.
24) Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.
25) Printers.
26) Blasting and gunpowder stores.
27) Displaying advertisement
Third Schedule –Annoying and Dangerous Businesses
1) Clearing mica.
2) Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.
3) Dry clean or dyeing.
4) Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.
5) Electro planting metals.
6) Manufacture of oil or animal oil.
7) Kilning lime stones.
8) Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.
9) Processing cod-liver oil.
10) Building boarts.
11) Recharge or repairing batteries
12) Welding metals.
13) Repairing motor vehicles.
14) Servicing motor vehicles.
15) Grinding metals with machines.
16) Running a casting shop.
17) Running a tin workshop.
18) Making bodies for motor vehicles.
19) Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.
20) Manufacturing disinfectors.
21) Manufacturing of mosquito coils.
22) Manufacturing timber protects.
23) Manufacturing gal tar.
24) Manufacturing glass products.
25) Making glass mirrors.
26) Galvanize metals.
27) Manufacturing welding lead.
28) Manufacturing aluminum products.
29) Manufacturing barbed wire.

<!-- page 149 -->

149AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
30) Manufacturing wire nails.
31) Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.
32) Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.
33) Manufacturing P.I buckets.
34) Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.
35) Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.
36) Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.
37) Manufacturing machineries.
38) Manufacturing electrical products.
39) Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.
40) Manufacturing storage batteries.
41) Assembling tractors.
42) Manufacturing radiator.
43) Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.
44) Manufacturing Battery.
45) Paddy mills.
46) Making coffin.
47) Manufacturing and repairing telephones.
48) Assembling and repairing electrical products.
49) Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments
50) Funeral service supply centre(Funeral home)
Annexure -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business, and
annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Business Center :-
2. Place of the Business Center:-
i. Ward No.:-
ii. Assessment No.:-
iii. Name of the Road/Street:-
iv. GN Division No. & Name:-
3. Name of the Applicant:-
i. Full Name:-
ii. Permanent Address:-
iii. GN Division No. & Name:-
iv. NIC No.:-
v . Telephone No.:-
vi. e-mail Address:-

<!-- page 150 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
150A
4. i. Date of Beginning the Business
ii. Name of the manager of the meat Stall:
iii. Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
i. Name of the Owner:
ii. Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Y es:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the By Law. I
apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector

<!-- page 151 -->

151AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Off icer of Health
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… ………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date   Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 152 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
152A
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
……………………………….  …………………………………………
                         Date Chairman/Authorized Officer
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-30)
PART IV — STANDARD BY-LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, ADMINISTRA TE,
CONTROL AND MONITOR OF SLAUGHTER-HOUSES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE
URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, and
administrate, monitor and control the slaughter house within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of maintaining sanitation, health and providing
proper food for the public residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban
Councils Ordinance.
(3)  These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section
157 (10)(a) read with section 153 (1) and accordance with the section 128 of the Urban Councils Ordi-
nance  and Chapter 3 the  of butchers Ordinance
(4)  Every public slaughter house shall be under the supervising of an officer appointed by the
proper authority and he shall be called superintendent of slaughter house.
(5)  Any  licensed butcher or special permit holder shall be permitted to slaughter animals during
the  hours only fixed by Chairman or an Authorized Officer from time to time.
(6)  Licensed butcher or special licensed person shall slaughter animals only at such places
within the slaughter house that are assigned to him by the superintendent of the slaughter-house.
(7)  No licensed butcher shall slaughter any animals unless the Chairman of Urban Council shall
have issued to him a printed permit duly filled in the form authorized by the him. The printed permit
before issue shall be duly filled in by the veterinary surgeon or qualified Officer and signed by him and by
the butcher to whom it is issued, and shall bear the date of the issue.
(8)  The slaughter house shall be declared accordance with the provision of the Butchers Ordi-
nance

<!-- page 153 -->

153AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(9)  The certificate mentioned in this By-Law No 38 shall be produced to the superintendent of
the slaughter-house before the animal is admitted into the slaughter house premise.
(10)  Should any person claim any animals while exposing in a public slaughter house premises
previous to slaughter the slaughtering of such animal shall be stayed, and the person who has brought it
shall be required for with to pay any fees due in respect of such animal and to remove it from the slaughter
house.
(11)  All animals brought to or left at a slaughterhouse shall be properly secured with ropes to
prevent their escaping.
(12)  Every licensed butcher shall submit to the Superintendent of the slaughterhouse a certified
copy of his licence and the certificate of registration of every servant whom he employs at the slaughter
house as he shall have obtained them.
(13)  The skins, entrails and offal of slaughtered cattle shall be collected by the butcher or his
employees in places set apart in order to be washed and cleaned before their removal.
(14)  When a licensed butcher or his registered servants are using the slaughter houses, the
licensed butcher shall be respond any damage done to the slaughter houses, either by his own act or by the
act of his servants, and shall be liable on demand such amount, as the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer
shall think fit for the damage so done; in failure of which the Chairman or  an Authorized Officer shall
have the either of cancelling his licence or of recovering the amount of such damage from the licensed
butcher and his sureties, or both.
(15)  The motor vans, in which licensed butchers and others are required by these by-laws to
remove meat from slaughterhouse shall be produced before the superintendent of the slaughter house for
inspection whenever they enter the slaughter premises, and shall not be permitted to remove meat from
the slaughter house unless they are found to be clean and in service diction to the satisfaction of the said
superintendent.
(16)  Fees to be charged shall be prescribed from time to time by the council by resolution in
respect of the following per head of cattle:-
(i). For the use of the slaughter house by-
a) Cattle (other than buffaloes)
b) Pig
c) Sheep and goats.
(ii). For feeding (for each period of twenty-four hours or any part (thereof)-
a) Cattle
b) Pig
(iii). For occupation of shed:
a) Cattle
(17)  The Chairman may, after two days’ notice by publicity cause any animal which has been
retained at the slaughterhouse for default of payment of fees due on it to be sold by public auction, and
shall out of the proceeds retain any fees due at incurred in respect of such animal and pay over the surplus,
if any, on application, to the person who shall have be brought such animal for slaughter to the
slaughter house.

<!-- page 154 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
154A
(18)  Animals affected with infectious diseases, when brought to the slaughter house, shall be
seized  and conducted to such place or places as the Chairman shall from time to time appoint to be there
destroyed or disposed of as the shall think proper.
(19)  Should the person who has brought to the slaughter house any animal for the  slaughter of
which a permit has been refused or the slaughter or which has been forbidden fail to remove it from the
slaughterhouse premises within twelve hours after such refusal or prohibition, the Chairman may after
two days’ notice by publicity cause such animal to be sold by public auction  shall out of proceeds retain
the amount of fees due and expenses incurred in respect of such animals and pay over the surplus, if there
be any on application, to the person who shall have brought such animals for slaughter to the
slaughterhouse.
(20)  As specified in By-Law No 41, the person removing such meat, skin entrails or offal shall
produce such pass or passes for inspection on demand by any Urban Council officer or Police officer and
should such person fail to do so, such meat, skin, entrails, or offal shall be liable to be seized and removed
to the Urban Council Office or to the Police station to be disposed of as may be directed by the Chairman
or an Authorized Officer of the Urban Council, without any compensation to the owner.
(21)  The application for such special license as per By-Law No 44 shall contain information
with reference to the animal similar to that contained in Form A prescribed in the schedule to the Brand-
ing sale and Transfer of cattle ordinance (chapter 473) and shall be accompanied by a report from a police
Officer or Urban Council Officer or Grama Sevaka of the applicant’s area certifying that the animal
belongs to the applicant. A fee decided by the council time to time shall be charged for this special
licence.
(22)  Every slaughter-house shall be thoroughly washed and swept twice at least daily at such
times as the Chairman may fix.
(23)  Every slaughter-house shall be lime-washed, or painted both side(in and out), once at least
in every three months.
(24)  Every slaughter –house shall be paved with granite stones or flat paving bricks or tiles, or
concrete or asphalt, and the joints fresh pointed with mortar once at least annually.
(25)  If on any animal which has been approved as aforesaid being slaughtered the carease shall
appear or otherwise unfit for human food, the said superintendent or other person authorized by the
Chairman shall cause the said to be then and there destroyed or so disposed of as to prevent  its being
exposed for sale or used for human food. Should it be denied that the meat is unfit for human food, the
said superintendent or other authorized person shall forthwith call upon the Veterinary Surgeon or Medi-
cal Officer of Health to proceed with him to the slaughter house and there inspect that said meat; and
should it be decided by the said Veterinary Surgeon or Medical Officer of Health, whose decision in the
matter shall be final, that the meat in unfit for human food, it shall be lawful for such superintendent or
other authorized person thereafter to destroy or dispose of the same as here in before provided in these
by-Laws.
(26)  None but the butchers, their assistants, and the Urban Officers attached to the slaughter
house and those authorized shall be admitted within the premises during the process of slaughtering,
skinning, or cutting up the carcases.
(27)  All the offal, entrails, or other refuse left at the slaughter house by the butchers or their
assistants shall be disposed.

<!-- page 155 -->

155AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(28)  Skins, offal, entrails, or other refuse left at the slaughter house after the hours fixed by the
superintendent without this officer’s  sanction, shall be considered as abandoned, and shall become the
property of the Urban Council, who may dispose of them as it shall think fit.
(29)  The superintendent of the slaughter house or other person authorized as aforesaid shall
keep a register of all by him giving a description of the cattle and their brand marks, and the other particu-
lars set forth in such form as shall be by the Urban Council, such register shall   be accessible to the
public at the office of the slaughter house between the house and 4 p.m except on Sundays and public
Holidays.
(30)  It shall not lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher to slaughter any cattle (other
than buffaloes), sheep, goat or pig without a special licence from the Chairman or contrary to the tenor of
such special licence. A fee as decided by the council by resolution for every such special licence shall be
charged
(31)  Every licensed butcher shall register at the Urban Office the names of the servants whom
he desires to employ slaughter house in his trade as butcher, and the Chairman may refuse to register any
particular name or cancel the name those already registered. Such licensed butcher shall not employ or
continue to employ any person who is not so registered name has been so cancelled.
(32)  No person suffering from any skin disease, leprosy, or any infectious or contagious dis-
ease shall be allowed within the slaughterhouse.
(33)  It shall be lawful the superintendent of the slaughter-house or the Urban Veterinary sur-
geon to forbid   of any animals found to be diseased or otherwise unfit to be slaughter for human food, and
whether permit to slaughter has been seized and treated like animals affected with infectious or conta-
gious diseases.
(34)  No diseased cattle , sheep, goat or pig shall be brought to the slaughter house.
(35) (i). No person  shall bring into the Urban Council limits the meat of any sheep, goat,
cattle, pig or poultry slaughtered outside the limits of the  Urban Council ;
Provide that the proceeding of this paragraph shall not apply to meat packed in
hermetically sealed this
(ii). No pl ace shall be used as a slaughter house  within the Urban Council limits without a
licence issued by Urban Council accordance with the section 128 of Municipal
Councils Ordinance .Chairman or an Authorized Officer may issues ,refuse, stop or
revoke for that at his discretion
(iii). No person shall be allowed to slaughter any animals except a licensed butcher or
special licence issued under the By-Law No. 30.
(36)  No person shall sell or expose for sale  within the limits of Urban Council
(i). The meat of any sheep, goat, cattle, pig or poultry slaughtered   outside the limit of
Urban Council, or
(ii). Any meat(whether chilled, frozen, salted or smoked or otherwise preserved) imported
into the islands unless such meat has been inspected and passed as fit folk human
consumption by the Urban Veterinary surgeon or an officer authorized in behalf by the
Chairman Provided that the preceding provisions of these by laws shall not apply to
any meat sold in hermetically sealed tins
Tasks not to be
carried out(31 –
44)

<!-- page 156 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
156A
(37)  No person shall remove or permit, cause to be removed any meat of any animals from a
Urban slaughter house any other place of slaughter to market or other place within the Limits of the
Urban Council, unless the same shall be conveyed in a motor is constructed as to protect the said meat
effectually from sun, dust and rain and screen it from public view. And no person shall expose or cause to
be exposed to public view any raw skin or skins or raw hides during carriage from place to place
(38)  No permit shall be issued for the slaughter of cattle unless a licensed butcher produce a
certificate in his favour in form A prescribed in the schedule to Branding sale and transfer of cattle
Ordinance (Chapter 473), or unless the person wishing to sell the animal to the butcher appears with the
butcher before the superintendent of the slaughter-house and produces a similar certificate in his favour
and signs a declaration he is prepared to sell to the butcher.
(39)  It shall not be lawful for any licensed butcher or other person to produce any certificate
required for the purpose of obtaining a permit for slaughter which certificate is not issued in respect of
the animals produced or which is false in any particulars, or the entries in which do not correspond every
particular with the description and brands of the animals for which it is produced. Any such animal shall at
once be removed by the person who has brought it, and shall not be admitted into the slaughter-house
premises.
(40)  No person shall slaughter any animals for which a permit to slaughter has been issued until
all fees and expense of slaughterhouse have been paid and in case of non-payment the animals may be
dealt with under by-Law No. 19.
(41)  No  person shall remove any meat, skin, entrails, or offal of any animals slaughtered at the
public slaughter house without its being accompanied by a pass, in the form authorized by the Chairman
and signed by the Superintendent of the slaughter house or other officer appointed to issue such passes,
(42)  No dogs shall be admitted into the slaughter house and no owner or person in charge of a
dog shall bring it into or allow it to enter any slaughter house. All dogs found there shall be made over to
the police to be dealt with as stray dogs.
(43)  No licensed butcher or any of his registered servants or other person admitted inside a
slaughter house shall make any noise or quarrel, or use insulting, abusive, or obscene language, and any
person contravening this by-Laws may be turned out of the slaughter house by the superintendent or his
assistant.
(44)  It shall not be lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher within the Limits of the
Urban Council to slaughter any cattle unless he shall have obtained a special license from the Chairman
or an Authorized Officer, and any person obtaining such special license from the Chairman, and any
person obtaining such special license shall not slaughter except at the place named in such license or
under any conditions there in set forth.
(45)  Authorized officer who has delegated by authority shall have the power to do the inspection
to confirm the meat of any animal slaughtered in the public slaughter house only
(46)  A fee as decided by the Urban council from time to time  shall be paid  before slaughter
each animal as specified in these By-Laws
(47)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
Function of the
Local Authority
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power

<!-- page 157 -->

157AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(48)  The validity of every license issued to slaughter the animals under the provision of these
By-Laws shall expire within seven days from date of issue.
(49)  The Chairman or  an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-
Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.
(50)  Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or an
Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(51)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
is an offence.
(52) (i). Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if
convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the
Urban Council limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255
of the Urban Council ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these
By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be
liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(ii). Contravention or breach of this by-law No. 35(ii) in this part shall be punishable offence
and if convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within
the Urban Council limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 128(2) in Chapter
255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of
these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall
be liable to additional fine in terms of section 128(2)
(53)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
“Proper Authority “means the Chairman of the Urban Council or authorized officer
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of  Urban Council
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business or product at the specified place.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by Laws of
the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge
or Manager of the management of this place.
“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this pro-
vision.
“Veterinary surgeon” means the veterinary Surgeon of Urban Council.
“Animal” means animals belonging to any kind of cattle, sheep and goats and pig
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
violation of
By-laws
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition

<!-- page 158 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
158A
PART V — STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, MONITOR AND
CONTROL OF SALE OF MEAT WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, moni-
tor and control of sale of meat within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by Chapter 201 Butchers
Ordinance and the sub sections (9) (x) of 157 of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of
Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  If only the premises applied for is in conformity with the conditions set out below, the
Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall issue a licence on the application specified in schedule 01 to
anybody to carry on a meat sales centre:-
(i) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with
cement or applied with rust proof metal sheets.
(ii) The premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be
finished off with cement or laid with tiles.
(iii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room where meat is exhibited for sale.  The area of the windows shall not be less
than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall
not be applicable
(iv) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height
(v) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres from
floor level.
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least
1 metre.
(vii) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary
gradient to facilitate the flow of waste water.
(viii) Wh ile sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining
through the drains referred to in paragraph (vii) flowing to any public source of water,
action shall be taken to drain off such waste water to a suction pit.
(ix) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.
(x) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat sale
centre shall be made available action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to
ground such waste material at least 0.5 metres deep in the ground or hand over such
waste to a collection truck of the Urban Council in accordance with provisions decided
upon by the Council from time to time.
Name of  By-Laws
Objective
Legislative
enactment for
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-15)

<!-- page 159 -->

159AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(xi) While sufficient lavatory facilities for the use of the persons working in the premises
shall be made available suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of after
the use of the lavatory shall be supplied.
(xii) Every licensee of a meat stall cause  at least one spittoon to be kept on the licensed
premises that those employed on the premises may have access to them
(xiii) Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the
outside of this premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Meat Stall”
legibly painted there in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(xiv) Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause copy of these By-Laws relating to meat stall
in Sinhala, English and Tamil to be framed and hung in a prominent place in the licenced
premises. He shall also keep on the premises a list of the names and addresses of all
the employees, including vendors of meat, so as to be at all times available for
inspection
(xv) Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause the walls of every room forming part of the
meat stall,  except such parts as are covered with glazed tiles or are plastered in cement,
to be lime-washed, and all the woodwork to be lime-washed or, if oil-painted, to be
washed with hot water and soap at least four times a year or at any other times ordered
by the Chairman in writing
(5)  At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash and clean
with disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat, other
utensils and the places exhibiting the meat for sale.
(6)  Provided that action is taken to transport meat in a vehicle or a box or any other utensil that
could be securely closed to prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal, no person shall
transport any species of meat and after the transport of meat action shall be taken to wash by water with
disinfectant fluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in transporting meat.
(7)  Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drains
in and around any licensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or sale
of meat.
(8)  Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.
(9)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safety
materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials after washing
their bodies or bath when they are on duty at the license premises.
(10)  It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.
(11)  It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush
and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(12) (i). Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action
shall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories. –
(a) biodegradable waste,
(b) glass ,

<!-- page 160 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
160A
(c) paper or paper based materials,
(d) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,
(e) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ,
(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by
products or other parts produced in the production line ,
(g) dangerous waste ,
And it shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that they are put in separate
containers or tanks put in place for that purpose.
(ii). Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the
manner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of waste
management launched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
(13)  The Chairman or Urban Chairman shall, on application made to him by the licensee of a
meat stall, issue cards of registration free for the use of every person employed by such licensee in
transporting meat from the slaughterhouse to the meat stall  for sale
(14)  Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep ample supply of drinking water at the licensed
premises
(15)  Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep the licensed premises open every day except such
days on which the Government of Srilanka/ the Chairman or an Authorized Officer requires to be closed.
Further stall shall be opened from 07.00 a.m. to 07.00 p.m. it is not decided  by the Urban Council
(16)  No person shall use any other premises than a market for the purpose of selling meat
without a valid licence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
(17)  No licensee of meat stall shall sell or expose for sale on the licensed premises any meat
other than meat of animals slaughtered in a public slaughterhouse which is within the administrative
limits of Urban Council and which has been duly declared and proclaimed under section 21 of Butcher
Ordinance (Chapter 201), or in a place appointed for the purpose by the proper Authority under section
11 of the said Ordinance, or under a permit issued accordance with the section 14 of the said Ordinance.
The Urban V eterinary surgeon or any other officer Authorized by him cause the meat of animals
so slaughtered to be sealed with a seal to identify such meat.
(18)  Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meat
stall are stored in a deep freezer and the said deep freezer has been properly activated from the time of
storage until the opening of the stall for sales on the following day, no species of meat left behind unsold
shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
(19)  No person shall keep any animal or bird in the licensed premises on any pretext whatso-
ever.
(20)  No person shall spit within a meat stall except into a spittoon provided for the purpose.
(21)  No person shall be allowed that sale of meat done by the visiting to place to place within
the Urban council limits.
(22)  No person shall sleep in any place of licensed meat stall
Tasks not to be
carried out (16 –
25)

<!-- page 161 -->

161AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(23)  Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been  recently nursing anybody who is suffer-
ing from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report,  shall not
be engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the
place, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;
(24)  Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage
himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.
(25)  Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no other
goods or clothes or mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.
(26)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any
kind of meat kept for sale or displayed for sale inside the premises of any meat stall for the purpose of
inspection at the licensed premise.
(27)  In the event of the premises where any sale of meat is maintained under a licence issued
under these By-Laws in this part any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part
the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding
him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a
specified date.
(28)  Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the authority
to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run sale of meat centre.
(29)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(30)  The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(31)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the
standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(32)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer
(33)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 26 in these By- Laws,
shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the
period of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days
(34)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Urban Chairman has the legal power to cancel the
licence issued for the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 33 in
these By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(35)  The licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
Authorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers
(36)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence
Function of the
Local Authority
(26 - 27 )
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
Procedure of
inspection and
powers(31 – 34)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Laws

<!-- page 162 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
162A
(37)  Contravention or breach of any of these by-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of Laws, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of Laws which has the juris-
diction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(38)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils.
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these by Laws
of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-
charge or Manager for the management of this place.
“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this pro-
vision
“The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business at the specified place.
“Meat stall or Meat sale centre” means any place where any kind of meat is kept for sale or
display it for sale or stored inside the place of any meat stall for sale.
“Meat “ means beef, mutton  or Pork
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation
and definition
SCHEDULE -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for meat stall within the area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Meat Stall:-
2. Place of the Meat Stall:-
(i). Ward No.:-
(ii). Assessment No.:-
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

<!-- page 163 -->

163AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Per manent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv). NIC No.:-
(v). T elephone No.:-
(vi). e-mail Address:-
4. (i). Date of Beginning the meat Stall
(ii). Name of the manager of the meat Stall:
(iii). Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
(i). Name of the Owner:
(ii). Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

<!-- page 164 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
164A
For the report of assessment section
Ward:…………………………                                          Assessment No.:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 165 -->

165AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ……………………………….  …………………………………………
                         Date  Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
\………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
……………………………….  …………………………………………
                         Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

<!-- page 166 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
166A
PART VI -STANDARD BY - LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULA TE, REGULARIZE, MONITOR AND
CONTROL OF SALE OF FISH WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
(1)  By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, moni-
tor and control of sale of fish within the area of authority of the Urban Council
(2)  By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of public
residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
(3)  These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub sections
(9) (x) of 157 of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
(4)  If only  the premises applied for is in conformity with the conditions set out below, the
Chairman or Authorized officer shall issue a licence on the application specified in schedule 01 to any-
body to carry on a fish sales centre:-
The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or
applied with rust proof metal sheets.
(i) The premises where fish is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be
finished off with cement or laid with tiles.
(ii) The premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be
finished off with cement or laid with tiles.
(iii) W indows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed to
each room where fish is exhibited for sale.  The area of the window shall not be less
than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall
not be applicable
(iv) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height
(v) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres from
floor level.
(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to be
at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves shall be at least 1
metre.
(vii) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary
gradient to facilitate the flow of waste water.
(viii) Wh ile sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining
through the drains referred to in paragraph (vii) flowing to any public source of water,
action shall be taken to drain off such waste water to a suction pit.
(ix) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall be closed to the air.
(x) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the fish sale
centre shall be made available action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to
ground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in the ground or hand over such
waste to a collection truck of the Urban Council in accordance with provisions decided
upon by the Council from time to time.
Name of
By-Laws
Objective
Legislativee
nactmentfor
making By-Laws
Tasks to be
executed (4-15)

<!-- page 167 -->

167AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(xi) While sufficient lavatory facilities for the use of the persons working in the premises
shall be made available suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of after
the use of the lavatory shall be supplied.
(xii) Every licensee of a fish stall cause  at least one spittoon to be kept on the licensed
premises that those employed on the premises may have access to them
(xiii) Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside
of his premises a board with his name and the words “Licenced Fish Stall” legibly
painted there in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(xiv) Every licensee of a fish stall shall cause copy of these by-Laws relating to fish stall in
Sinhala, English and Tamil to be framed and hung in a prominent place in the licensed
premises. He shall also keep on the premises a list of the name and addresses of all
the employees, including vendors of fish, so as to be at all times available for inspection
(xv) Every licensee of a fish stall shall cause the walls of every room forming part of the
fish stall,  except such parts as are covered with glazed tiles or are plastered in cement,
to be lime-washed, and all the woodwork to be lime-washed or, if oil-painted, to be
washed with hot water and soap at least four times a year or at any other times ordered
by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer in writing
(5)  At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action shall be taken to wash and clean
with disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other
utensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale.
(6)  Provided that action is taken to transport fish in a vehicle or a box or any other utensil that
could be securely closed to prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal, no person shall
transport any species of fish and after the transport of fish action shall be taken to wash with disinfectant
fluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in transporting fish.
(7)  Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drains
in and around any licensed fish stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or sale
of fish.
(8)  Any licensed fish stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.
(9)  It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safety
materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on
duty at fish stall.
(10)  It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensed
premises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year
(11)  It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brush
and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.
(12) (i). Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action
shall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories. –
(a) biodegradable waste,
(b) glass ,

<!-- page 168 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
168A
(c) paper or paper based materials,
(d) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,
(e) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ,
(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by
products or other parts produced in the production line ,
(g) dangerous waste,
And it shall be the responsibilities of the licensee to see that they are put in separate
containers or tanks put in place for that purpose.
(ii). Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the
manner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of waste
management launched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the
manner prescribed by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer
(13)  The Chairman or Urban Chairman shall, on application made to him by the licensee of a
fish stall, issue cards of registration free for the use of every person employed by such licensee in
transporting fish for sale
(14)  Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep ample supply of drinking water at the licensed
premises.
(15)  Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep the licensed premises open every day except such
days on which the Government of Srilanka/ the Chairman or an Authorized Officer requires to be closed.
Further stall shall be opened from  07.00 a.m. to 07.00 p.m. ,if it is not to decide by the Urban Council
(16)  No person shall use any other premises than a market for the purpose of selling fish
without a valid licence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.
(17)  Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed fish
stall are stored in a deep freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of
storage until the opening of the stall for sales on the following day, no species of fish left behind unsold
shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
(18)  No person shall keep any animal or bird in the licensed premises on any pretext whatso-
ever.
(19)  No person shall spit within a fish stall except into a spittoon provided for the purpose.
(20)  No persons who sell fish with licence for hawking shall deposit waste of fish by the sides
of the road when selling such fish and they shall cause such waste to be disposed properly
(21)  No person shall be allowed that sale of fish done by the visiting to place to place within the
Urban council limits without a licence obtain from the Chairman or an Authorized Officer. No licensee
of a fish stall shall permit any person to transport to sale from licensed premises any fish except in a
closed vehicle or a closed basket, tin, or other suitable receptacle. He shall see that every such vehicle
basket, tin or other receptacle is at all-time kept clean and wholesome.
(22)  No person shall sleep in any place of licensed fish stall.
Tasks not to be
carried out
(16 – 25)

<!-- page 169 -->

169AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
(23)  Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who has
recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been  recently nursing anybody who is suffer-
ing from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report,  shall not
be engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the
place, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;
(24)  Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage
himself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at a fish stall.
(25)  Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of fish no other
goods or clothes or mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.
(26)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of any
kind of fish kept for sale or displayed for sale or inside the premises of any fish stall for the purpose of
inspection at the licensed premise.
(27)  In the event of the premises where any sale of fish is maintained under a licence issued
under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman
or an Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accom-
plish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
(28)  Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the author-
ity to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run sale of fish center.
(29)  It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functions
converted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws  to the secretary or any other
officer of Urban Council
(30)  The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on
31
st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier
(31)  The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-
Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.
(32)  It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperate
for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or an Authorized
Officer.
(33)  Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No 27 in these By- Laws,
shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is
received, the Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the
period of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.
(34)  It shall be lawful for the Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the
place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 33 in these By-Laws fails to
act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.
(35)  The licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or
an Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these
officers.
(36)  Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Laws
shall be an offence
Functions of the
Local Authority
(26 - 27 )
Charges and fees
Delegation of
power
Valid period of
license or permit
procedure of
inspection and
powers(31 – 34)
Complaints and
resolving
mechanism
Violation of
By-Laws

<!-- page 170 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
170A
(37)  Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-
victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable to
the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case
of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-
tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)
(38)  In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires
“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-
thorities Elections Ordinance.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils.
“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the  Chairman to carry out
particular duty.
“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under the provisions of these by
Laws of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person
in-charge or Manager for the management of this place.
“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this pro-
vision
“The power to inspect  within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to
make business at the specified place.
“Fish stall or Fish sale centre” means place where any kind of fish is kept for sale or display it
for sale or stored in inside the place of any fish stall for sale.
Fines and
penalties
Interpretation and
definition
SCHEDULE -01
Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Fish stall within the area of authority of Urban Council
1. Name of the Fish Stall:-
2. Place of the Fish Stall:-
(i). W ard No.:-
(ii). Assessment No.:-
(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-
(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

<!-- page 171 -->

171AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
3. Name of the Applicant:-
(i). Full Name:-
(ii). Permanent Address:-
(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-
(iv). NIC No.:-
(v). T elephone No.:-
(vi). e-mail Address:-
4. (i). Date of Beginning the fish Stall
(ii). Name of the manager of the fish Stall:
(iii). Previous Business:-
5. If it is rented building,
(i). Name of the Owner:
(ii). Address:-
6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes:No:
If last year licence was obtained,
Licence No.:
Date:
I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the By
Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.
……………… …………………………..
Date Signature of Applicant
For office use
For report as follows
………………………………
Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

<!-- page 172 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
172A
For the report of assessment section
Ward:………………………… Assessment No:……………………
Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….
Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………
Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………
Annual Value:…………………………          Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date  Sectional Head
For the report of revenue department,
(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………
(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C
(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Revenue Inspector
For the report of the medical officer of health,
Public Health Inspector’s Report:
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………….  …………………………………………
Date Public Health Inspector
Report of Medical Officer of Health :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Medical Officer of Health

<!-- page 173 -->

173AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 02.02.2016
For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,
Rent Agreement:……………………….                             Nature:………………………….
Environmental License:…………………                           M.O.H report:……………………..
C.O.C:…………………………………….                         Excise License:…………………
Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    ……………………………….   …………………………………………
                         Date Chief Revenue Inspector
Accountant’s Recommendation
Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………
……………………………….   …………………………………………
                         Date Accountant
Approved/Not Approved
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Chairman/Authorized Officer
For the report of Revenue Branch
Receipt No.:………………………………..                Date of the Receipt:…………………………….
License No.:……………………………….                 Date of the License:………………………….....
Recommended to issue License.
………………….. …………………………
Date Sectional Head (Revenue)
Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman
………………………………. …………………………………………
Date Secretary/ Accountant
Signed
………………………………. …………………………………………
                         Date  Chairman/Authorized Officer
02-494
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.