

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.  6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  May 26, 2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 23rd May, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
RUBBER  REPLANTING  SUBSIDY
(AMENDMENT)  ACT,  No.  20  OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 20 of 2006
1
2 —PL 001099—5,650 (03/2006)
[Certified on 23rd May, 2006]
L. D.—O. 8/2005
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  RUBBER  REPLANTING  SUBSIDY
A CT  (CHAPTER  437)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Rubber Replanting
Subsidy  (Amendment) Act, No.  20  of 2006.
2.  Section 7 of the Rubber Replanting Subsidy Act
(Chapter 437) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby repealed and the following sections
substituted therefor :—
7. (1) There shall be charged and levied a
cess, at such rate as the Minister shall determine
by Order published in the Gazette, taking into
consideration the conditions prevailing in
relation to the rubber industry as a whole. The
cess so determined shall be payable in respect
of the identified rubber products, in the manner
and at the respective times hereinafter set out.
(2) In making the Order under subsection
(1) the Minister shall determine the rate of the
cess to be levied in respect of —
(a) the import of—
(i) raw natural rubber;
(ii) synthetic rubber; and
(iii) rubber based products,
calculated on the value of such
product or the percentage of the
rubber content of such product as the
case may be and the cess so calculated
shall be payable at the point of
import;
Replacement of
section 7 of
Chapter 437.
“Levy of Cess.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 20 of 2006
(b) the export of—
(i) raw natural rubber;
(ii) dry rubber; and
(iii)rubber based products
manufactured for export,
calculated on the percentage of the
rubber content of such product and
the cess so calculated shall be payable
at the point of purchase of the raw
rubber by the manufacturer of the
rubber product or at point of export,
as the case may be;
(c) the manufacture of rubber based
products manufactured for domestic
consumption, calculated on the
percentage of the rubber content of
such product and the cess so calculated
shall be payable at the point of
purchase within the country.
(3)  The amount imposed as cess under
subsection (1) may be varied or rescinded by
the Minister by Order published in the
Gazette.
(4)   An Order made under subsection (1)
or subsection (3) shall be in operation as from
the date of publication of such Order in the
Gazette. Every Order shall before the expiry
of four months from the date of publication in
the Gazette, be placed before Parliament for
its approval.  Any Order not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
its disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.

<!-- page 4 -->

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 20 of 2006
3
(5)   Notification of the date on which any
Order is rescinded under subsection (4) shall
be published in the Gazette.
(6) The cess calculated and paid in terms
of the aforesaid subsections shall be credited
to the Fund established under section 2.
(7)   The total amount of the levy collected
in terms of this section, shall be utilised in
consultation with the Sri Lanka Rubber
Research Institute and the Sri Lanka Industrial
Development Board established under the
Industrial  Development Board of   Ceylon
Act, No. 36 of  1969, for the development of
rubber based small and medium scale local
enterprises and for the cultivation of rubber.
(8)   For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby
stated that all items of rubber to which the
provisions of this section apply, may be
identified in relation to the relevant H. S. Code
No. under which they are classified in Customs
Notification (RPO) No. 91/11 published in
Gazette Extraordinary No. 682/16 of October
1, 1991 or any other Code No. which may be
substituted  therefore and shall be in force at
any future date.
7
A . (1) Any person may make an
application to the Director-General of the
Rubber development Department for a refund
of any cess paid by him in excess.
(2) The Director-General of the Rubber
Development Department may submit the
application to the Rubber Replanting
Advisory Board, requesting the Board to make
a recommendation as to whether such refund
could be made.
Refund of
excess of the
cess.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 20 of 2006
(3) On the recommendations of the
Rubber Replanting Advisory Board made on
the basis of criteria as determined, the Minister
may Order the refund of the amount as is
required to be refunded by the Rubber
Development Department to such person
under this Act in the manner as may be
prescribed.”.
3.   Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in subsection (1) of that section by the insertion immediately
after paragraph (a) thereof, of the following new paragraphs :—
“(aa) establish a scheme for the registration of exporters
and importers of raw natural rubber and rubber
based products and for the manufacturers of rubber
based products ;
(aaa) the manner and mode in which the content of
rubber present in rubber and rubber based  products
and the actual percentage thereof,  should  be
declared; ”.
4. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 10 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 10A of that enactment :—
10A.  Every person who contravenes or fails
to comply with the provisions of this Act or any
regulation made thereunder shall on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to
imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding one year or to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees, or to
both such fine and  imprisonment.”.
5. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal therefrom of the definition of the
expression “raw natural rubber”.
Insertion of new
section 10A in
the principal
enactment.
“Offences.
Amendment of
section 13 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 20 of 2006
5
Gazette
Notification to
be rescinded.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
6.  The Order made under subsection (1) of section 14 of
the Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 and published
in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1362 of October 15, 2004, is
hereby rescinded.
7.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Rubber Replanting Subsidy (Amendment)
Act, No. 20 of 2006
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.