

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"110- 2019 fmnrjdß ui 08 jeks  isl=rdod - 2019.02'08
No. 2,110– FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 08, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... 28
Miscellancous Notices .... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 1st March  2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
February 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
1st January 2019.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
27 - B 81493 - 353 (02/2019)
N.B.- The List of Jurors in Kegalle District Jurisdiction Areas in Year 2019 has been Published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala Tamil,
English, Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

28  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019.02'08
PART II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 08.02.2019
Miscellaneous Notices
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,   SRI LANKA.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE
WESTERN PROVINCE HOLDEN IN
COLOMBO EXERCISING ITS CIVIL
JURISDICTION
                                 In the matter of the winding up of a
                                 company under section Xll of the
                                 Companies act, No. 07 of 2007.
                                 Tours East (Lanka) Limited
                                 No. 455, Ground Floor,
                                 Elvitigala Mawatha,Colombo 05.
                                 Company Proposed to be Wound-up
                  .      Vs
                                 Devin Radolphe Pereira
                                 No. 52 - 03, Jayagath Road, Nawinna,
                                 Maharagama.
                                 Petitioner
 It is hereby notified that a petition with regard to the winding
up of the abovenamed our East (Lanka) Limited by the High
court of the Western Province holder in Colombo (exercising
its Civil Jurisdiction) has submitted by Devin Radolph Pereira
of No. 52/03, Jayagath Road, Nawinna, Mahargama on 15th
October, 2018 it has been fixed for inquiry before the High
Court on 30th January,  2019. any creditor or contributor of the
said company who wishes to assist in connection with the
delivering of  Order over the said petition, can appear at the
time of the hearing of the case through his Lawyer, and a copy
of the petition will be supplied by the undersigned to any
creditor or contributor of the said compny on  payment of the
stipulated fees.
                      Sgd: Sanath Wijewardana (Attorney-at-Law)
                      No.28,Wilson Street,Courts Road,Colombo 12.
Note: Any person who wishes to appear at the time of  the
hearing of the said petition should submit his wish to do so in
writing to the aforesaid Sanath Wijewardana,   Attorney-at-
Law or should send by registered post.The name and address
of the person who is making request should be disclosed.If it
is a company the name and address of the company should be
disclosed and it should be signed by him or the company or
his or her Lawyer (If available) and it should be handed over
to  reach the aforementioned person before 4.00 p.m. on 29th
January, 2019.If sent by post it should be posted giving
sufficient time.
                  Sanath Wijewardana (Attorney-at-Law)
                  No.28,Wilson Street,Courts Road,Colombo 12.
02-362
Case No. :
81/2018 Co.