

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 08,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified  on  08th  April,  2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
JAGADDALA  SOCIAL  WELFARE
INSTITUTE  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 21 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009
1
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Jagaddala
Social
welfare
Institute.
[Certified on 08th April, 2009]
L. D. — O. (Inc.) 18/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  JAGADDALA  SOCIAL  WELFARE  INSTITUTE
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the“Jagaddala
Social Welfare Institute” has heretofore been formed at Sri
Punyawardanaramaya, Kindelpitiya, Bandaragama for the
purpose  of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters connected with the said Institute according to
the rules agreed by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofor successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant  such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Jagaddala Social Welfare
Institute (Incorporation)  Act, No. 21 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are the members of the
“Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute”  (hereinafter referred to
as the “Institute”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the  “Jaggaddala
Social Welfare Institute” and by that name may sue and be
sued, with full power and authority to have, and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
formed are hereby declared to be —
(a) to establish and maintain homes for the orphaned
abandoned and destitute children with the approval
of the Proboation and Child Care Services
Department;
Preamble.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009
(b) to ensure the provision and maintenance of
comfortable living standards for the children in the
homes ;
(c) to provide facilities needed for the continuous
educational development and development of
creative abilities of the children in the homes;
(d) to provide vocational career guidance and
vocational training facilities to the children in the
homes;
(e) to monitor and assist where necessary in the future
well being of the children who have left the homes
after being resident there.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform and
execute, all such acts, matters and things as are necessary or
desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
money with or without security, to receive or collect grants
and donations, to invest its funds and to engage, employ and
dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules of the
Corporation made under section 6, be administered by a
Committee of Management (hereinafter referred to as “the
Committee”) consisting of the President, Vice president, the
Chief Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, Assistant Secretary,
the Treasurer and not less than eleven other members who are
elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection (1) Venerable Kindelpitiya Ariya Maithree
Thero the Chief Incumbent of the Kindelpitiya
General Powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009
3
 
Sri Punyawardanaramaya shall be the first President of the
Corporaiton and every successive chief incumbent shall be
the ex-officio President.
(3) The first Committee of Management of the Corporation
shall consist the members of the Committee of Management of
the Institute holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law, on all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers, and tenure of office
the resignation from or removal from office of office
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee,
conduct and duties and the tenure of office of
members of the Committee and its powers;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions and tenure
of office of the officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Committee, the times,
place, notices and agenda of such meeting, the
quorum of the meetings and the  conduct of business
thereat ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
grants, donations, contributions or fees shall be deposited in
the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may be
decided by the Committee.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund
or a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development of the property of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation
all sums of money to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporaiton in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby formed and all debts
due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to, the
Institute on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold, any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules of the  Corporation made
under section 6, and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Institute.

<!-- page 6 -->

Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009
5
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President and the Secretary or the Treasurer or an officer
authorized in that behalf and who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as witness.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year ;
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation ;
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “Qualified Auditor” means—
(i) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a members of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
How the seal of
the Corporation
is to be affixed.
Audit and
Accounts.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Jagaddala Social Welfare Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 21 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.