

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2127
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"083 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 03 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'08'03
No. 2,083  –  FRiday ,  august 03, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th august, 2018 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th august, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting).
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2125-B 81436- 5,403 (08/2018)
Note.– institute of Personnel Management, sri Lanka (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2018.
 
N. B.–   Part ii of the Gazette No. 2,082 of 26.07.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2126
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2127
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
to chief inspectors of customs and 
inspectors of customs grade 1
LImITED  COmPETITIvE  ExAmINATION 
fOR  PROmOTION  TO  ThE  POSTS  Of 
ASSISTANT  SuPERINTENDENT  Of 
CuSTOmS,  CLASS  II  - 2018
aPPLicatioNs are invited from –
 (a) chief inspectors of customs  or
 (b) Inspectors of Customs who have been confirmed in 
the post  of inspector of customs grade 1, having 
completed satisfactory service of 02 years in the said 
post,
who possess the qualifications mentioned below, to fill 
15% of the existing vacancies in the post of assistant 
superintendent grade ii.
01. Professional Qualifications :
the applicant,
 (i) should have completed active and satisfactory 
period of service of immediately preceding                   
05 years by the closing date of applications and 
have earned all the due salary increments during 
the said period.
 (ii) should have performed average or higher 
performance level in accordance with the approved 
scheme of performance appraisal.
 (iii) Should have passed the relevant efficiency bar 
examinations. 
02. the application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to this notification and should be prepared on A4 
paper using both sides. Heading number 1 to 9 should appear 
on the first side of the paper and the rest should appear on the 
other side of the paper. it is the responsibility of the applicant 
to make sure that the applicat ion form perfected by him 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice 
and retaining a copy of the dully filled application with the 
applicant may be more appropriate/ useful. it is essential 
to indicate the title of the examination in English language 
as well, in sinhala and tamil applications. incomplete 
applications will be rejected.
 
the completed application forms prepared in conformity 
with the specimen must be sent by the applicants to reach 
the additional director general (Human Resources) on or 
before 31.08.2018 through the Heads of their directorates.
the examination fee is Rs. 500. this fee should be paid at 
any Post office /Sub Post office to the credit of the revenue 
head number 2003-02-13 of the commissioner general of 
Examinations. the receipt obtained by the applicant should 
be affixed firmly using one of its edges to the relevant cage 
of the application form. it is more appropriate to retain a 
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant. this fee will 
not be refunded under any circumstances. Money orders or 
stamps will not be accepted for the payment of examination 
fees. 
03. the Examination shall consist of two parts namely 
the Written Examination and the general interview. Marks 
and time allocation for each paper is as follows.
Part I
Written Examination Marks
Procedure of customs (2 hours) 100
simple Mathematics (01 hour) 100
Part II
general interview (No marks will be given.)
  (to verify whether the applicants 
  have fulfilled the minimum 
  qualifications for recruitment to the 
  post).
 this examination will be conducted in all the three 
Languages sinhala, tamil and English. candidates should 
sit the whole examination in one language medium and can 
select the medium in which they were qualified to enter 
into the current service. it is not permitted to change the 
language medium applied after submission of applications. 
the decision of the commissioner general of Examinations 
with regard to the conducting of the examination and 
issuance of the results shall be the final.
04.  the syllabus of the subjects of this Examination is 
as follows.
 Syllabus: Customs Procedures :
 (i) (a) Loading, unloading, storage and clearance of 
sea cargo/ air cargo
  (b) duties of a grade ii assistant superintendent 
of customs in charge of an import warehouse

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2128
  (c) completion of Blue Book
  (d) duties of a grade ii assistant superintendent 
of customs in charge of the liquor 
warehouse  
 (ii)  Export- 
 (a) Procedure followed with respect to Lading of 
Export cargo
      (b) scrutiny of Export details
  (c) Maintenance of stock Book
 (iii)  transshipment cargo- 
 (a) De-stuffing and stuffing of Sea cargo
 (b) Preparation of transshipment manifest
 (c) coastal / offshore Lading
 (iv)  clearance Process related to bonded warehouses
 (v) general-  
• Refunds and conditions on certification of 
refunds
• Regulations stipulated for refund of duty
• Schedule of restricted and prohibited goods (to 
the country and from the country)
• Enforcement powers vested by the Customs 
ordinance for taking action in respect of 
undeclared goods, false declaration and 
undervaluation of goods
• Procedures prescribed in the Customs 
ordinance for examination /searching and 
taking into custody
• Provisions laid down in the Customs Ordinance 
with regard to the illegal exportation and 
importation and all departmental orders related 
to the duties of the officers.
05. The syllabus of Simple Mathematics paper will 
consist of the following.– 
this is a simple arithmetic paper to test the ability of 
the applicant in arithmetic operations such as addition, 
subtraction, multiplication and division, the speed of solving 
mathematical questions and mathematical and logical 
intelligence of the applicant.
 
06. 06.1 applicants who score minimum 40% for 
each paper (customs procedures and simple 
Mathematics) or secure an aggregate of 100 
marks or above for both papers shall be 
qualified to appear for the interview.
 6.2  Issuance of Results :
  the list of results comprised of the names 
of successful candidates as per para 6.1 
above, will be sent to the director general of 
customs. the department of Examinations 
may communicate the results personally to all 
candidates who sat the examination, by post 
or, will take action to publish results in the 
official website www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
07. 07. i on the presumption that applications have 
been forwarded by persons who have 
fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the 
Gazette notification, admission cards will 
be issued by the commissioner general of 
Examinations to all candidates who have 
submitted applications. A notification will be 
published in newspapers by the department of 
Examinations immediately after the admission 
cards are issued to candidates. if the admission 
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
such advertisement, steps should be taken 
by the applicant to notify the department of 
Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. the name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, identity card No. 
and the address should be mentioned when 
informing the department of Examinations. 
in case of applicants outside colombo, it 
will be more effective to send a letter of 
request to the fax number mentioned in the 
said advertisement furnishing a fax number 
to which the admission card should be sent. 
Further, it would be advisable to retain a copy 
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant 
to payment of examination fee and the receipt 
of postal registration of the application to prove 
any information requested by the department of 
Examinations.
 07. ii an applicant must sit the examination according 
to the index number at the examination hall 
assigned to him/her. Every applicant must get 
his signature attested in advance and hand over 
the admission card to the supervisor on the 
first day he/she presents himself/herself for the 
examination. an applicant who fails to produce 
his/her admission card will not be permitted to 
sit the examination.
 07.iii candidates will be required to prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. any of the 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2129
following documents will be accepted for this 
purpose:
• National Identity Card issued by the 
department of Registration of Person.
• A valid passport 
08.   8. i.  the issue of an admission card to an applicant 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination 
or to be appointed to the post.
     8. ii.  this examination will be held only in 
colombo. the date of the examination and the  
place   will be notified in due course.
09. applicants will be subject to the rules and regulations 
enacted by the commissioner general of Examinations 
with respect to conducting of examinations and release of 
the results. in case of violating these rules and regulations, 
he/ she will be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations.  
10. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail. any matter not provided for in 
these regulations will be dealt with at the discretion of the 
secretary, to the Ministry of Finance.
 director general of customs,
 sri Lanka customs department.
“customs House”,
No.40, Main street,
colombo 11.
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN FoRM
Limited Competitive examination for promotion to the 
posts of assistant superintendent of Customs, CLass ii 
department of sri Lanka Customs– 2018
(for office use only)
Medium in which you  sit this examination: 
sinhala  – 2 
tamil  – 3 
English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
01. Name of the applicant: 
 1.1 Name in Full (in English Block capitals) :–––––––. 
  (eg. HERatH  MudiyaNsELagE saMaN 
KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in English Block  
capitals) :–––––––––––.
  (eg. guNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K)
 1.3 Name in Full (in sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. address to which the admission card should be sent: (in 
English Block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 
03. Particulars of the National identity card:
 3.1 National identity card Number:
 3.2 departmental identity card Number :–––––––––––.
04. sex:
 Male  – 0 
 Female – 1 
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. Present post and date of appointment to the post :–––––.
06. Date of confirmation in the present post :–––––––––––.
07. Medium of recruitment to the post :–––––––––––.
08. current working place :–––––––––––.
09. Was any disciplinary inquiry held against you within the 
period of last 5 years? :–––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Other Special Qualifications :–––––––––––.
12.  details of the payment of Examination Fee:
 (i) Name of the Post office /Sub Post office :–––––––.
 (ii) Receipt No. :–––––––.
(iii)  amount Paid : Rs. :–––––––.
 (iv) date of payment :–––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2130
13.  Applicant’s Declaration/Certification:
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in the 
application are true and correct. i am eligible to sit for the 
examination in the medium referred to in para 03 above.   
Furthermore, i agree to abide by rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
regarding the conducting of the examination.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
    
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant’ s signature (Delete whichever 
inapplicable) :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who 
is submitting this application is an officer  in the staff of 
my office / Directorate and he/she is personally known to 
me. He/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this 
…………day of ………2017. 
signature :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––. 
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.  
          
Certification of the Head of the Department :
this is to certify Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. .......................... ……. 
submitting this application is serving in the post of chief 
inspector of customs/ inspector of customs grade 1 in the 
staff of my office and  the particulars referred to in para 01 
to 11 are true and accurate. i also certify he/she has paid 
the prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt herein 
and is eligible to sit for the above examination.  
signature :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
08–134                     
mINISTRy  Of  fINANCE  AND  mASS  mEDIA
Sri Lanka Customs Department
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN FoR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE Posts oF iNsPEctoR oF 
custoMs, gRadE ii dEPaRtMENt oF sRi LaNKa 
custoMs – 2018
tHE open competitive Examination for recruitment to 
the post of inspector of customs, grade ii of the sri Lanka 
customs department will be held by the commissioner 
general of Examinations in November 2018, at the 
examinations centers established in main towns throughout 
the island. The date of the examination will be notified in 
due course through the newspapers. the sri Lanka customs 
department reserves the right of postponing or cancelling 
this examination.
centers where the examination will be held and the 
relevant city numbers :
Province City City number
Western colombo
gampaha
Kaluthara
01
02
03
central Kandy
Mathale
Nuwaraeli
04
05
06
southern galle
Mathara
Hambanthota
07
08
09
Northern Jaffna
Mannar
Vavnia
Mulathev
Kilinochchi
10
11
12
13
14
Eastern Battichalow
ampara
trinkomalee
15
16
17
North West Kurunegala
Puttalam
18
19
North central anuradhapura
Polonnaruwa
20
21
uva Badulla
Monaragala
22
23
sabaragamu Rathnapura
Kegalle
24
25
in the event that a certain examination centre is not 
established in a certain city due to insufficient applicants, 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2131
they are referred to a centre as per their second choice 
or a centre closest to that city. if an adequate number of 
applicants have not applied for the examination in order to 
establish examination centers in all the proposed cities or 
more, the commissioner general of Examination will take 
measure to hold the examination only in colombo.  changes 
will not be allowed later with regard to the requested town. 
applications are invited for these posts from both males 
and females possessing the qualifications given below:
02. eligibility :-
 (i) Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof 
to the fact that he/she:
 (a) is a citizen of sri Lanka,
 (b) is of excellent moral character,
 (c) is not less than 18 years and not more than 
24 years of age on the date of closing of 
applications. 
  (accordingly, only those who were born 
on or before 31.08.2000 or born on or after 
31.08.1994 are eligible to apply for this 
post)
Note :- No person ordained in any religious sect 
shall be permitted to sit this examination.
 (ii) Physical Requirements:- in the case of males, 
their height should not be less than 5 feet 5 
inches and chest should not be less than 33 
inches (when expanded)
  in the case of females their height should not be 
less than 5 feet 3 inches.
 (iii) Educational Qualifications – Every applicant 
must possess the following educational 
qualifications:- 
 (a) should have passed three main subjects 
in one sitting at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) ; and 
 (b) should have passed six subjects at the 
General Certificates of Education (Ordinary 
Level) Examination in not more than two 
sittings with five credit passes including 
credit passes for sinhala Language or 
tamil Language, and Mathematics as 
main subjects and at least a simple pass for 
English Language. 
03. Conditions of Service :–
 (i) salary: the consolidated monthly salary scale 
attached to the post is as follows:- 
  Rs. 29,540 -300 x7-370x27= Rs. 41,630.
  (Rs-1 as per Public administration circular 
No.3/2016)
  (the provisions of the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 will apply in paying 
salaries from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020)  
 (ii) the post is permanent and will be subject to 
the policy decision taken by the government, 
regarding the pension scheme in future.
 (iii) successful applicants will be appointed subject 
to a probationary period of three years with 
effect from the date of appointment.
 (iv) the appointees must undergo a medical 
examination held by a government Medical 
Officer to test whether they are physically fit to 
serve in any part of the island.
 (v) the appointees are bound to serve day and night 
on any part of the island.
 (vi) the attention is invited to the general conditions 
applicable to the posts in Public service which 
have been published at the beginning of Part 
i: section (iia) of the government Gazette 
notification.
04. Scheme of examination .– there are three (03) 
question papers for the scheme of examination for 
recruitment, as follows:- 
                       Marks 
1. aptitude test (1 hour)    100
2.  Mathematics (1 hour)    100
3.  English Language(1
1//2 hours)  100                                        
                           total  300
Aptitude Paper – this paper will consist of 50 multiple 
choice questions and questions for short answers in order to 
test the language skills and the ability in logical reasoning of 
applicants. all questions should be answered.
Mathematics Paper – this paper will consist of questions 
to test the ability in mathematics. all questions should be 
answered.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2132
English Language paper.– this paper will test the 
reading, writing, comprehension and communication skills 
of the applicants. all questions should be answered.
Note :– 
 (i)  this examination will be conducted in all the 
three languages sinhala, tamil and English. 
applicants should sit this examination in the 
same medium in which they passed the qualifying 
examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of this 
notification. However, an applicant who has passed 
the qualifying examination in tamil or English 
medium or an applicant who’s medium of study is 
tamil or English medium may answer in sinhala 
medium at the Examination, if he desires. it is not 
permitted to change the language medium applied. 
 (i) Marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting 
and wrong spelling.
 (ii) admission cards of the examination will be 
sent to the eligible candidate applicants by 
the commissioner general of Examination. 
However, the receipt of an admission card must 
not be treated as a fulfillment of qualifications 
to sit the examination. the applicants are 
bound by rules and regulations prescribed by 
the commissioner general of Examinations 
on conducting the Examination and if the 
applicants breach such rules and regulations 
they will be subject to the punishment imposed 
by him.
 (iii) evaluation.– Marks of the applicants who obtain 
60% or above for each question paper at the 
examination will be totaled and those applicants 
will be called for the structured interview in 
the descending order of totals according to the 
prevailing number of vacancies. Maximum of 
10 marks will be awarded for the sports talents 
at the structured interview. subsequently, 
the successful applicants will be referred to a 
general interview in which no marks will be 
awarded, and marks obtained by applicants for 
the examination and the structured interview 
will only be taken into consideration.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview :
Marks for individual sports at the Zonal Level :
3 marks for the first place, 2 marks for the second 
place, and 1 mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the District Level:
4 marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second 
place, and 2 marks for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the National Level:
5 marks for the first place, 4 marks for the second 
place, and 3 marks for the third place.
05. Basis of selection .– applicants who are successful at 
the written examination and the interview will be selected 
for conferment of appointments, subject to the number of 
vacancies approved by the Ministry of Finance. 10% of the 
number of vacancies will be reserved for female applicants.
 05.(i)  Release of results: - the results list prepared 
in order of merit based on aggregate marks 
obtained by the qualified applicants through the 
written examination and the interview will be 
sent to the director general of customs by the 
department of Examinations. the department 
of Examinations will communicate the results 
to all the applicants who sat the examination, 
by post or will publish in the official website 
www.results.examination.gov.lk
Note.– the nature of the work in sri Lanka customs 
department is such that even the female staff has to 
perform the night duties.
06. it is compulsory for every applicant that, he/she 
should have fulfilled all the required qualifications prior to 
the date of closing applications for the examination.
 (1)  all applicants are bound to abide by the rules 
and regulations laid down by the commissioner-
general of Examinations with regard to 
holding examination and issuance of results.  
a candidate who violates any of those rules 
is liable to punishment at the discretion of the 
commissioner-general of Examinations.
07. Method of application :– 
 (i) a  specimen form of the application has been given 
at the end of this notification. Applicants should 
prepare their application forms themselves in the 
medium which they intend to sit the examination, 
conforming to the specimen form referred to 
above and fill them in their own handwriting. 
Every cage of the application must be filled by 
the applicants as instructed and if there are cages 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2133
not applicable, the word “not applicable” should 
be entered in such cages. it must be strictly noted 
that leaving blank cages in the application is liable 
to be rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 05 of the 
specimen form should be on the first page, 06 to 
11 in the second page, and the rest in the third 
page of the application which should be prepared 
in a4 size papers.) the title of the examination 
should be written in English too in sinhala and 
tamil applications.
 (ii) the completed application form must be sent by 
registered post on or before 31.08.2018 to reach 
the commissioner general of Examinations, 
organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. Box -1503, 
colombo. any applications received after the due 
date will be rejected. the name of the examination 
should be written clearly on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed.
  (It is advised to retain a photo copy of the filled 
application with the applicant) 
 (iii) Examination fee of Rs.600/= should be paid 
at any  Post office /Sub Post office to the 
credit of revenue head Number 2003-02-13 of 
the commissioner general of Examinations. 
Money orders or stamps are not accepted for the 
examination fee. the receipt must be attached 
to the application  and it is advised to retain a 
photocopy of the receipt with the applicant. this 
fee will not be refunded under any circumstances 
or not be transferred in lieu of a payment for 
another examination.
 (iv) applicants who are already employed in 
government department /Boards/ corporations 
must forward their applications through the 
Head of their departments or institutions in 
which they are serving at present. applicants are 
requested to forward their applications to Heads 
of their departments or institutions well on time 
with a request that they be transmitted to the 
commissioner general of Examinations so as to 
reach him on or before 31.08.2018
  the application should not be sent addressing 
personally to the director general of customs or 
any other officer of the Department. Applications 
received after the due date; even if they are 
forwarded by the departments will be rejected. 
applications of the applicants who are in the 
government service will be rejected if the 
attestation of the signature of the applicant does 
not bear the signature and the official seal of the 
Head of department/ Head of the institution, 
 (v) Attestation – the signature of an applicant who 
is in the government service should be attested 
by his/her Head of Department or by an officer 
authorized to do so on his behalf.
  the signature of other applicants should be 
attested by a person authorized to do so, i.e., a 
Justice of the Peace, a commissioner of oaths, 
attorney-at-low, a Notary Public, a Principal of a 
Government School, a Commissioned officer of 
the Navy, air Force or army, a permanent public 
officer drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360/= 
or over, a chief incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist 
temple or any other religion in charge of a place 
of worship or holding a position of importance.
08 (i) Admission to the examination.- on the presumption 
that applications have been forwarded by persons who 
have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the Gazette 
notification, admission cards will be issued by the 
commissioner general of Examinations to all applicants 
who are within the age limit mentioned in the Gazette 
notification and have paid the prescribed examination fee 
and submitted the accurately completed applications on or 
before the closing date including the name of the city and 
medium intended to appear for examination, signature of the 
applicant, the attestation of the signature and the attestation 
of the Head of the department (if applicable) along with the 
receipt of the payment,. 
immediately after the issuance of admission cards to the 
candidates a newspaper advertisement will be published by 
the department of Examinations, sri Lanka. if an applicant 
does not receive his / her admission card even after two or 
three days of such advertisement, he / she should, without any 
delay, inform the department of Examinations of sri Lanka 
regarding non- receipt of the admission cards, as mentioned 
in the notification. In making such an inquiry, full name of 
the applicant, address, National identity card Number and 
name of the examination should accurately be mentioned. 
in case of an applicant residing outside colombo it will 
be more appropriate to contact the department forwarding 
a letter of request including the above details and a fax 
number to receive the admission card (to the fax number 
referred to in the notification). It will be more successful 
to produce a certified photocopy of the application with the 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2134
paying receipt and the registered post Number which should 
be readily available with the applicant as a proof of such 
information requested by the department of Examinations. 
(ii) an applicant must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every applicant 
must get his signature attested in advance and hand over 
the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he/she 
presents himself/herself for the examination. an applicant 
who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination. the rules for applicants 
have been indicated separately in part i: section ii (a) of 
this Gazette notification. all applicants will be bound by the 
said rules of the examination.
(iii) No notification of receipt of applications will be 
issued to the applicants. 
Note :- the issue of an admission card to an applicant 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the applicants.- applicants will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for this purpose:
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Person.
 (b) A valid passport issued not more than five years 
before the date of examination.
the candidature of an applicant who fails to produce a 
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner general Examinations.
10. eligibility of Documents  :-
 (i)  No documents other than the receipt of 
examination fee should be forwarded with 
the application. But the necessary particulars 
should be provided in the form, as prescribed. 
incomplete applications will be rejected. 
 (II)  Applicants, who are qualified to be called for 
the interview, should prove their eligibility by 
producing documentary proof.
 (iii)  the originals of the following documents will be 
required: 
 (a)  A certificate of moral character signed by a 
responsible person.
Note .– The certificate of character may be obtained 
from a Justice of the Peace, attorney - at – Law, 
divisional secretary of the area of residence, or 
a permanent Government officer in receipt of 
an annual consolidated salary of Rs.240,360/= 
or over or some person whose name is known 
and to reference can be readily made. the name, 
designation and address of the person who issues 
the certificate must be clearly indicated on the 
certificate. Applicants holding permanent posts 
in government service will not be required to 
furnish certificates of moral character.
 (b)  A certified copy of the entry of the registration of 
the Birth of applicant or a Special Certificate of 
age issued by the Register general (in the case of 
applicants whose Birth has been not registered),
 Note:-
 (i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for 
School or Educational purposes, or a certified 
extract from the Birth registration entry will not 
accepted.
 (ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be 
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates. If the 
name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate 
differs/differ from the name/names which the 
applicant generally uses and under which the 
applicant sits the examination, action should 
be taken immediately in terms of section 27 or 
28 as the case may be, of the Births and deaths 
Registration act, (chapter 110) to get the name 
in the entry of the registration of Birth amended.
 (iii) Certificate of Registration as a Citizen of Sri 
Lanka or original official letter of acceptance of 
claim to citizenship by descent (as applicable).
 (iv) Original certificate of Educational Qualifications 
or where the certificate has not been issued, other 
relevant official documents.
 (v) documentary proof of achievements of sports at 
Zonal/ district/National Levels.
 (vi) applicants are advised to have all the necessary 
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding 
the application. any applicant who fails to 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2135
produce the necessary documents or who delay 
in producing them when called for, will be made 
disqualified for appointment to this post.
11. Furnishing False Particulars.– if an applicant is 
found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this 
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to, during or after the examination.
if any of the particulars furnished by an applicant is found 
to be false to the best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has 
willfully suppressed any material fact, or if it is proved, at 
any time during the period of his/her service that he/she 
was ineligible to sit the examination, he/she will be liable 
to immediate dismissal from the service. the candidature of 
those who do not strictly conform to the requirements laid 
down in this notification will be cancelled. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations will 
be dealt with at the discretion of the director general of 
customs.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail.
director general of customs.
“customs House”
No.40, Main street,
colombo 11. 
SPeCIMen APPLICATIon FoRM
Open Competitive Examination For Recruitment to the 
Posts of Inspector of Customs, Grade II of Sri Lanka 
Customs Department – 2018
     (For office use only)
Medium in which you sit this examination: 
sinhala  – 2 
tamil  – 3 
English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
 town selected and the town Number
  (see the schedule i)
Town Town number
1
2
01. Name of the applicant: 
 1.1 Name in Full (in block letters) :–––––––––––.
  ex: HERatH MudiyaNsELagE    saMaN 
KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa. 
 1.2 Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  ex : guNaWaRdHaNa ,H.M.s.K
 1.3 Name in Full (in sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address: (in block   letters) :–––––.
 address to which the admission card should be sent 
:–––––––––––.
03. Particulars of the National identity card:
 3.1 Number of the identity card:
 3.2 date of issue : 
   y ear  Month  date
          
04. sex :
 Male      – 0 
 Female – 1 
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05.  (a) date of Birth : 
   y ear  Month  date
            
       (b) age on the closing date of application:
   y ears  Months  days
  
06. state whether you are a citizen of sri Lanka :
 By descent  – 1       
 By registration  – 2
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. Ethnicity: 
      sinhalese  – 1  ceylon tamil  – 2
      indian tamil  – 3 Muslim  – 4
      Burgher  – 5 other  – 6
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2136
08. telephone (Mobile) Number:
09. Physical requirements: 
       (i)  Height feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
       (ii)  chest (when expanded): inches :––––––––––––.
  (only for male candidate)
10. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the 
court of Law? (yes/No) :––––––––––––.
 if yes, give details :––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications:
 (i)  General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
in one sitting :
  y ear of examination :––––––––––––.
  index number :––––––––––––.
Subjects Performance
  (ii)  General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
subjects performance year Index 
number
 (iii)  Have you obtained a simple pass for English 
Language at the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level)? (yes/No)  :––––––––––––.
12. Examination Fee (Receipt to be attached) :
 (i) Name of the Post office /Sub Post office   :––––––.
 (ii) amount Paid: Rs.  :––––––––––––.
 (iii) date of payment  :––––––––––––.
 (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the 
candidate)
(these particulars should be given compulsorily).
13. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification:
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect before selection, I am liable to be disqualified, or, 
dismissal from the service without any compensation if it 
is revealed after selection. Furthermore, i agree to be bound 
by rules and regulations of the commissioner general of 
Examination regarding the conducting of the examination.
                 
       –––––––––––––,
                                signature of  applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
14. attestation of applicant’s signature (delete whichever 
inapplicable):
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is 
submitting this application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this 
…………day of ………2014. i also certify that he/she has 
paid the due examination fee and has attached the paid 
receipt.
signature of attester  :––––––––––––.
Full Name of attester  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
date  :––––––––––––.
Note: the attestation should be made by a person 
referred to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification. 
15. i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …..……. who is submitting 
this application is an employee of this Ministry/ 
department/ Board/ corporation. in the event of his/her 
selection for the above post he/she can be released.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the department.
 (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the department :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address of the department :––––––––––––.
08–133

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2137
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-government servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
schedule of separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the government Printer, department of government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2018
2138
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2018
 AuGuST 03.08.2018 Friday — 20.07.2018 Friday 12 noon
  10.08.2018 Friday –– 26.07.2018 thursday 12 noon
  17.08.2018 Friday –– 03.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  24.08.2018 Friday –– 10.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  31.08.2018 Friday –– 17.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
 SEPTEmbER 07.09.2018 Friday — 24.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  14.09.2018 Friday –– 31.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  21.09.2018 Friday –– 07.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
  28.09.2018 Friday –– 14.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
 OCTObER 05.10.2018 Friday — 21.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
  12.10.2018 Friday –– 28.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
  19.10.2018 Friday –– 05.10.2018 Friday 12 noon
  26.10.2018 Friday –– 12.10.2018 Friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer. (Acting)
department of government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2018.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.