

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1959$20 - 2016 ud¾;= 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'03'24
No. 1959/20  -  THURSDAY,  MARCH  24,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
"Institute"), the Institute has adopted the Guidelines on Presentation and Disclosure - The Segregation of the Life and
General Insurance Business Under Section 53 of the Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment) Act, No.3 of 2011,
published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These changes
shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the Eighteenth of February Two Thousand
Fifteen.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
 Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
24th March, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2015
2A
Guidelines on Presentation and Disclosure - The Segregation of the Life and General Insurance Business under
Section 53 of the Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of  2011
Contents
1. Introduction
2. Scope
3. Disclosure Requirement
1. Introduction
In terms of Section 53 of the Regulation of Insurance Industry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011, all composite insurance
companies are required to split their Life and Non - Life Insurance business into two separate legal entities. In
consultation with the insurance industry, IBSL has brought forward the deadline for compliance to 1
st of January 2015
and has set out a timetable with key milestones leading to the completion of the process by that date.
This guideline specially concentrates on the separate financial statements rather than consolidated financial statements.
From a group point of view, there is no discontinuation of operations since the group would continue both life and
general business.
Segregation of insurance business would not meet the definition of assets held for sale because the carrying amount
of the transferred assets will not be recovered principally through a sales transaction, rather than through continuing
use. Although the entity receives value for the assets in the form of an investment in a subsidiary, that investment will
only be realized through continuing use, if a sale is not planned by the Company.
In substance, this segregation is only a change in the mode of operation or restructuring the insurance business.
Under such restructuring, it should be noted that the entity has not lost control of the assets, and therefore the assets
cannot be considered to have been disposed of. Therefore, segregation of insurance business is considered as out of
scope for the application of SLFRS 5 "Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations".
The objective of this Application Guideline is to ensure consistency in disclosure and presentation of the segregation
of Insurance Companies within a common framework for financial reporting purposes.
2. Scope
This guideline shall be mandatory when the insurance business satisfies all the following conditions;
2.1. Segregation is to comply with the Insurance Industry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011, Section 53.
2.2. Before and immediately after the segregation of insurance business under the above mentioned regulation,
ownership structure has not changed.
2.3. Applicable for the following described business structures;
- Create two new subsidiaries under the existing parent company by exchanging of shares while having the
control of the subsidiaries. One subsidiary will holds the assets and liabilities of the Life Insurance business
and other will holds the assets and liabilities related to the General Insurance business.
- Parent company creates one subsidiary by exchanging shares while having the control of the subsidiary.
Parent company and new subsidiary will hold the assets and liabilities related to the Life and General
Insurance businesses separately.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'24
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2015
3A
3. Disclosure Requirement
An entity shall disclose the following information in its separate financial statements as a note to the Financial
Statements, to reflect the impact of restructuring in order to reflect a fair presentation.
(a) a single amount comprising the total of the post-tax profit or loss of segregated operation
(b) an analysis of the single amount in (a) into:
(i) the revenue, expenses and pre-tax profit or loss of segregated operation; and
(ii) the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of LKAS 12;
(c) the net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and financing activities of segregated operations.
(d) the amount of income from continuing operations and from segregated operations attributable to owners of the
parent.
3.1.  Additional Disclosures
An entity shall also disclose the following additional information as a note to the separate financial statements.
(a) a description of the segregated insurance business operation
(b) a description of the facts and circumstances of the segregated insurance business
Further recommend to include a separate Comprehensive Disclosure Note in both separate and group financial
statements regarding the background information of the segregation of insurance operations to improve the
quality of financial statements to achieve a fair presentation.
04–525
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.