

<!-- page 1 -->

179
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023. 07'21
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 21.07.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th August 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th July  2023
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
G anGani   L iyanaGe ,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
179 B 82475- 353 (07/2023)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 180
wxl 2"342 - 2023  cQ,s ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2023 .07'21
no. 2,342  FRIDAy ,  JuLy 21, 2023
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.–    (i) Appropriation (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
of July 07, 2023.
 (ii) Elections (Special Provisions) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka of July 07, 2023.
 (iii) Sri Lanka College of Nutrition Physicians (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 07, 2023.
N. B.–   Part I:II (A)  of the Gazette No. 2341 of  14.07.2023 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

180
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.07'21
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 21.07.2023
miscellaneous notices
An AcT To  IncoRPoRATe  The  SRI  LAnkA   AGRIPReneuRS' foRum (SLAf)
I, Maithreepala Sirisena, do hereby give notice under No. 53 (1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to Incorporate the Sri Lanka 
Agripreneurs' Forum (SLAF)''.
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Forum which has the following general objects :-
 (a) to act as a catalyst and think-tank for the promotion of agribusiness and agribusiness practitioners on visionary 
concepts and practices leading to the advancement of the sector ;
 (b) to serve as a technology watch group and share innovations and modern and efficient agricultural practices and 
promotion of agribusiness development and related activities ;
 (c) to provide advisory services for the preparation of policies, guidelines, codes of practices, standards, research & 
development, and innovation on all sectors of agribusiness ;
etc.
  M aithreepala  S iriSena ,
 Member of Parliament
07-211
 An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The SRI LAnkA  ASSocIATIon foR fISheRIeS AnD AquATIc 
ReSouRceS
I, Nalaka Godahewa, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled ''An Act to incorporate the Sri Lanka 
Association for Fisheries and Aquatic Resonrces".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Association which has the following general objects :-
 (a) to promote effective interaction and co-operation among those involved in research and development activities in 
fisheries and aquatic resources in Sri Lanka;
 (b) to liaise and co-operate with Government and non-Government Organizations concerned in such activities in Sri 
Lanka; and
 (c) to serve as a Forum for Scientists and other personnel to discuss issues and policies to development and conservation 
of aquatic resources;
etc.
 n alaka  G odahewa ,
 Member of Parliament.
07-334
PRINTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANkA.