

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 20, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23. 05. 2016)
DR. SAMAN WEERASINGHE FOUNDATION
 (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Mohan Priyadarshana De Silva,
M.P. for Galle District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
 (Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 009954—  300 (05/2016)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  DR. SAMAN WEERASINGHE
FOUNDATION
WHERE a Board called and known as the “ Dr. Saman
Weerasinghe Foundation” has heretofore been establish
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters  connected with
the said Found ation according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant such
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Dr. Saman Weerasinghe
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so may persons as now are members of the
“Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of  “Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation” and by
that name may sue and be sued in all Courts, with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Dr. Saman
Weerasinghe
Foundation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide advice and support for all communities
in Sri Lanka to live in peace and harmony;
(b) to provide facilities to pre-school children and grant
scholarship to them;
(c) to provide facilities to safeguard and maintain ethics
and culture;
(d) to supply the necessary equipments and facilities of
the poor school children to develop their studies;
(e) to provide medical and food to the poor, the destitute
and the sick;
(f) to establish libraries to promote education and
research;
(g) to work towards to protect and develop all rights of
women and children;
(h) to protect and make known human rights, humanities
and fundamental rights;
(i) to organize leadership programmes;
(j) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
instructions or foundations which have similar
objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and  another eleven members elected in  accordance with
such rules.
5
10
15
20
25
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The first Board of  the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what
so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any
building or structures on any land held by the Corporation
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum of such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
(e) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to,  or replaced at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscription and contribution payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
bequest, donation,  subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Foundation shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
power, duties and function under this Act.
9.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the Fund.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
10. No member of the Corporation of there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilies of the Corporation
or for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the among of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to same other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.  
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor
appointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
In  this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate of practice as an
Accountant, issued by the Council of such
institute.
13.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman or a member of the Board as may be duly authorized
by the Board and another member of the Board who shall
sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic, or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15

<!-- page 8 -->

7Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .