

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 487
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 484 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"373 – 2024 fmnrjdß ui 22 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2024'02'22
No. 2,373  –  ThuRsday, fEbRuaRy 22, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
aTTENTioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th March 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 1st March, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
481- b 082543 - 5,403 (02/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
482
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
483
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. however in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
484
Post - v acant
JuDICIAL  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Recruitment for the post of Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal in the 
Scheduled Public Officers’ Service – 2024
01. In terms of provisions set out in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published in extraordinary Gazette 
bearing No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, applications are called from sri Lankan citizens who possess the required 
qualifications to make recruitment  to the post of Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal  in the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service.
02. Conditions of Service
2.1 An applicant selected to the post  of “Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal” shall be subject to the 
general conditions governing the appointments in Public service, terms and conditions set out in the 
Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published by the extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, amendments already made and 
will be made thereto in due course to the said service Minute, provisions of the Establishments code and 
financial Regulations.
 
2.2 The other official language proficiency applicable to the post of Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal 
should be acquired in accordance with circulars issued and/or circulars to be issued in due course by 
Judicial Service Commission in relation to implementation of the Official Language Policy in terms of 
Sec.12.18 of the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute published by the extraordinary Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  bearing No.2088/26 dated 11.09.2018.
03. Salary
as per Public administration circular No.03/2016 and Judicial service commission circular No.386 dated 
24.06.2016 issued in parallel with the said Public administration circular No.03/2016, the salary scale prescribed to 
the post of Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service is SL 1- 2016 (Monthly)  
Rs.47,615-10 x 1,335–8 x1,630 – 17 x 2,170 – 110,895 (The initial salary step for the post is step 08 of sL 1 – 
2016 salary scale. Accordingly the initial salary is – Rs.56,960/-). Salary will be paid from the effective date of the 
appointment.
04.  This post is permanent and pensionable.
05. Qualifications 
(a) be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 and 
(b) Should be not less than thirty (30) years and not more than forty five (45) years as at 23.02.2024.
 and
(c)         i. a  court Registrar who has completed 05 years active and satisfactory service in  Grade i of the court 
Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka and has been confirmed in said post
       or
  ii. a  court Registrar who has completed 02 years active and satisfactory service in Grade i of the court 
Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka and has been confirmed in said post and an Attorney-at -Law of the 
supreme court
       or
  iii. a  court Registrar who has completed 03 years active and satisfactory service in Grade ii class 
I of the Court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka and has been confirmed in said post and an  
attorney-at-Law of the supreme court

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
485
or
  iv.  a  court Registrar who has completed 04 years of active and satisfactory service in Grade ii 
Class II of the Court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka and has been confirmed in said post and an 
attorney-at-Law of the supreme court
or
  v. a  court Registrar who has completed 05 years active and satisfactory service in Grade iii of the 
Court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka and has been confirmed in said post and an Attorney-at-
Law of the supreme court
or
(d) An officer in the Court Management Assistants’ Service, Government Service   or in a parallel service in the 
Provincial Public Service who has completed 15 years active and satisfactory service and has been confirmed 
in said post and an attorney-at -Law of  the supreme court
                      or
 (e) Attorney-at -Law who has been in active practice for not less than five (05) years.
 
Note : - 
I. Period of service as an Attorney at – Law in a staff post or in a legal capacity in any Ministry, 
Government department or state corporation or Government statutory board or as a teacher of Law 
in a recognized university or Law school shall be regarded as a “period of active practice”.
II.  The upper age limit will not apply to officers who are already in the Government Service, Provincial 
Public Service and Scheduled Public Officers’ Service.
III.  According to 13.5 of the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service Minute, “period of Satisfactory Service” 
shall mean a period of service during which the officer has earned all increments required to be earned 
by him/her during that period by way of performing the duty of a Scheduled Public Officer efficiently 
and diligently and passing all Efficiency Bars prescribed and further satisfying all the qualifications 
prescribed for the confirmation in service and no any punishable offence committed by the officer. 
(f) be a person of excellent moral character.
(g) Should have a sound physical and mental fitness to perform the duties of the post.
N.B. -  It is compulsory that every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective 
post by 23 February 2024 or prior to said date.
06. A qualified person for the post will be selected based on the results of an interview conducted by a decision taken by 
the Judicial Service Commission from applicants who have fulfilled the basic required qualifications.
07. If an officer is recruited to the above post in terms of the qualifications stipulated in 05 (c and d) above, he/she shall 
be subjected to an acting period of one year from the date of appointment. If the recruitment is done to the above post 
in terms of the qualifications stipulated in 05 (e) above, he/she shall be subjected to a probation period of three years 
from the date of appointment.
08. The appointments of the applicants who fail to assume duties in the post to which they are appointed on the due date 
or applicants who refuse or neglect to assume duties in the post into which they are appointed, shall be cancelled by 
the secretary, Judicial service commission on the direction of the Judicial service commission.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
486
Any misstatement or suppression of a fact which is considered material will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if such statement or suppression is discovered before the selection and to dismissal or discontinuance if discovered 
after the selection.
10. Method of applying
(a) The application fee is Rs.500/-. The application form can be obtained by sending the receipt obtained by paying 
the relevant amount from any People’s bank branch to the credit of the account of ‘Secretary, Judicial Service 
Commission’ No:297100199025039 of the People’s Bank, Dam Street Branch along with an envelope 9x4 
in size with the name and address of the applicant written on it, by registered post to the Judicial service 
Commission Secretariat or by personally handing it over. When filling the receipt at the time of payment, the 
applicant’s name and address should be stated in the space provided in the receipt.
(b) duly perfected application should be sent under registered post to reach the address “Secretary, Judicial 
Service Commission Secretariat, Colombo 12” on or before 25.03.2024 or the applicants should hand over 
the applications by personally visiting the Judicial service commission secretariat.
11. (a)  applicant’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government school, 
a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, an Attorney at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post 
in Staff Grade in the Public Service.
(b) Applicants who are already in Government Service and who have fulfilled above qualifications should submit 
their applications through their respective head of the department.
(c) Applications which have not been duly completed in every respect will be rejected. No complaints regarding 
applications lost or delayed in the post will be entertained.
12. any matter not provided for in above paragraphs 01 to 11 will be dealt with as determined by the secretary of the 
Judicial Service Commission subject to the instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
13. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
by order of the Judicial service commission
H.S.Somaratne,
secretary,
  Judicial service commission.
Judicial service commission secretariat,
colombo 12,
19th february 2024.
02-833

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
487
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
SRI  LANkA  ExCISE  DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Excise Inspector - 2023
aPPLica TioNs  are hereby called from graduate applicants who are in public service for thirty four (34) posts of Excise 
inspector in the Excise department.  
applications have been posted on the website www.doenets.lk of the sri Lanka Examinations department and, the 
applications should be submitted only through online  system.
The examination will be held only in examination centers established in major cities across the island. (The document 
containing city and city numbers is attached at the end of this notice.) The city/cities applied for sitting to the examination 
should be as per schedule No. 01 and, it is not allowed to change the applied city/cities to be changed later. if adequate 
number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of an examination center in a particular city, those applicants 
will be directed to an examination center to be established in the city indicated as their second preference or in another 
nearby city. further, if adequate number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centers in all or 
more of the proposed cities, the Examination commissioner General will conduct the examination only in colombo.
01. method of recruitment :
The commissioner General of Examinations conducts a written competitive examination and the applicants who pass 
the examination are referred to an interview for assessment of eligibility and are recruited to the posts based on the order 
of the ranks as per the sum of the total marks obtained in the written test and the interview for assessment of eligibility 
and the number of available vacancies.
General Job description of the Position
Performing duties related to the Excise ordinance, Poisonous opium and dangerous drugs ordinance, Tobacco act, 
office administration and supervisory duties.
02.  Salary Amount : a  monthly salary Rs. 4 -2016  Rs. 37,030 - 24 x 660 - Rs. 52,870 /- eligible for this post.
03. Age Limit :
 applicants age as on  should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years. (No age limit for graduates in the 
departmental posts in the Excise department)
 “accordingly, born on or before 22.03.2003 and on or after 22.03.1989 only those who have applied the date are 
eligible to apply for this. “
 Eg:- if age should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years to the date 24.03.2024, only those whose birthday 
is on or before 22.03.2003  and on or after 22.03.1989  able to apply .
04.  Education and Other Qualifications :
Every applicant should have fulfilled the following educational qualifications
i. should have obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants commission of sri Lanka 
(uGc) or an institution recognized by the uGc as an institution of degree awarding.
ii. should have obtained at least a credit pass for the Mathematics and English language at the General 
Certificate of Education (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
488
4.1. Physical Qualifications :
 all applicants
i. should have minimum height (without shoes) should be 5 feet 06 inches and the chest should not be 
less than 33 inches without expanded).
ii. should have visual acuity of at least 6/6 and 6/12 without glasses or contact lenses including the vision 
for goods recognition.
iii. should be physically and mentally fit to work in any part of the island.
4.2.  Other Qualifications :
          he/she:
i. should be a citizen of sri Lanka 
ii. should possess an excellent moral character
 details of written competitive examination :
 Question paper Time Total score passing marks
01.  iQ Test 02 hours 100 40 %
02.  common  Paper 02 hours 100 40 %
 syllabus for the examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01. iQ Test This is paper is to measure the applicant’s intelligence, 
logic and decision-making ability. (Questions 
regarding Mathematics/ pictures problems, writing 
ssynonyms/antonyms, clause/sentence formation, fill-
in-the-blanks are also included thereto.)
02.  common  Paper
This is to measure information and general knowledge 
about current and social events in sri Lanka and the 
world
Interview for assessment of eligibility  - applicants who pass the written examination will be referred to the 
interview for assessment of eligibility and will be recruited to the posts based on the order of the ranks as per 
the sum of the total marks obtained in the Written Examination and interview for assessment of eligibility and 
according to the number of vacancies available. However, Sri Lanka Excise Department may decide not to fill 
any number of vacancies .
Marks will be awarded for the following qualifications at the interview for assessment of eligibility
 Major headings to which marks are 
awarded Maximum score
1. Additional educational qualifications Post 
Graduation, Post Graduate diploma, for a 
degree in addition to the basic qualification 
and as per class pass in the first degree
20
2. Language Proficiency 10

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
489
 Major headings to which marks are 
awarded Maximum score
3. sports skills
for record performances in national, 
provincial, district, regional and school 
competitions in various sports
35
4. other skills
specialized training
cadet/V olunteerring, self defense 
Training, Martial arts or Technique 
Training
Extracurricular activities
30
5. assessment of interview panel 05
Total 100
05. Terms of Service 
i. It shall be bound to act according to the official language law and all laws and regulations enacted by the 
government from time to time.
ii. chapter iii, chapter Vii and chapter Viii of group i of the procedural Rules published in the Gazette dated 
14.12.2022 are applicable.
iii. Applicants will be checked for physical fitness before the structured interview.
06 .  Training period:
 03 months training will be provided to the selected candidates . Those who do not pass a test at the end of this period 
will terminate their training. a  monthly allowance of Rs.20,000/- will be paid to the trainees during the training period.
 
07.  Probation Period :
Applicants who complete the training successfully will be appointed to the post of Excise Inspector subject to a 03-year 
probationary period. At the end of the probationary period, if they pass the efficiency bar examinations conducted as per 
the approved recruitment procedure, they will be confirmed in the relavent post .
 7.1.  The commissioner General of sri Lanka Excise department has the power to cancel the appointments of 
applicants who fail to assume the duties of the post conferred to him on the due date and/ or refuse or avoid 
assuming the duties of an appointed post or an appointed area .
08. fees for the Examination:
online applications should be completed only in the English language. before completing the application, download 
the common instructions, prepared to apply for the examination. Strictly follow these instructions when filling out the 
application.
Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Payment of   examination fee shall be made only by the following methods.
 i. any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit cards 
 iii. bank of ceylon online banking Method
 iv. bank of   ceylon Teller slip Payment
 v. Post Department Payment at a Post office

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
490
Note: instructions on the method of payment under the above method have been given under the technical instructions for 
the examination of the website.
Payment will be notified by a SMS. The full amount for the examination fee should be paid and applications that 
pay less or more examination fees will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for the 
delays in the payment of examination fees by the aforesaid method.
09. The commissioner General of examinations will issue the admission cards to the applicants who have paid the prescribed 
examination fee, submitted the duly completed online applications on or before the closing date of applications, on the 
presumption that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the Gazette notification have 
forwarded the applications. The department of Examinations will publish a notice immediately after the issuance of 
admissions. if admissions have not been received as mentioned in the notice, those applicants should inquire about it 
from the institutional Examination organization branch, department of Examinations. such applicants should clearly 
mention the name of the examination they applied for, the applicant’s full name, National identity card number, and 
the address. if the applicant lives outside colombo, it is more fruitful to inquire with a request letter mentioning a fax 
number to fax a copy of the admission to the applicant. Keeping a copy of the completed application and a copy of 
the receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee will be more fruitful to verify any information inquired by the 
department of Examinations. 
 Issuing an admission to the candidate does not confirm that he/she has fulfilled all the requirements required to sit for 
the examination.
The attested admission should be handed over to the examiner in charge of the examination on the first day of the 
examination.
10. applicants should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the examiner in charge of the examination center for all 
subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents will be accepted. 
 I. National Identity Card;
  II. Valid Passport; 
 iii. Valid sri Lankan driving License. 
applicants who fail to produce any of the above documents are not allowed to sit for the examination. also, the 
candidates should expose their identity without covering their face and ears when they enter the examination hall. 
applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further, the applicants should remain 
with their faces and ears uncovered till they leave the examination hall, enabling the examination authorities to identify 
the applicant.
11. signature of the applicant placed on the admission card as well as on the application should get his/her signature attested 
by the Head of institution or any other officer authorized to sign on behalf of such Head of institution.
12. applicants will be liable to rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in relevant to 
conducting examination and issuance of results. if in case of violation of such rules and regulations, he/she will be liable 
to any penalty imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
13. in the event of any mismatch or inconsistency between the language texts of this Notice that published in sinhala, Tamil 
and English, the sinhala medium notice shall prevail.
M.J.Gunasiri,
Excise commissioner General.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
491
 schedule 01
District/City District/City Number
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Ratnapura 09
sri Lanka Excise department, 
on 22nd february, 2024.
SPECImEN APPLICATION  fORm
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of ExCISE 
INSPECTOR Of ThE ExCISE DEPARTmENT Of SRI LANkA - 2023
Medium    (Write the relevant number in the box)
Medium that sitting for the examination      
sinhala  – 2
Tamil  – 3
English  – 4
(see schedule 1) 
1. (i) full Name (in sinhala/Tamil ) : ......................................................................................  
(ii) full Name (in block letters) : ........................................................................................  
(iii) Name with initials: .......................................................................................................
(in block letters)
2. (i) Permanent address (in block letters) : ............................................................................
(ii) divisional secretary’s division: ....................................................................................  
( iii) Grama Niladhari divisions : ........................................................................................  
(iv) Nearest Police station: ..................................................................................................  
( v) Nearest Excise station : ................................................................................................  
(vi) Postal address : ............................................................................................................  
 ( for sending exam admissions)
3. Gender :-
Male - 0
female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the box)
4. National identity card Number :
city city No.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
492
5. Mobile Number : 
6. date of birth :
        y ears : ........... Months : ...............  days : ............ ......... to the date 22.03.2024
7. are you a sri Lankan citizen ?
( state whether you are a sri Lankan citizen by descend or a registration)
8. Nationality : ....................................
9. civil status:………………………..
10. Educational Qualification :
(i)
Name and year of degree University the year Class pass obtained
(ii)  Passes in G.E.c (o.L) Examination :
y ear : ............... 
index No. : .............
Subject Pass
(iii) Passes in G.E.c. ( a.L ) Examination :
y ear : ...............
index No. : .............
Subject Pass
11.  Details of current job..........................................................................................................................................
 .............................................................................................................................................................................
12. details of sports and extracurricular activities : 
          ............................................................................................................................................................................
          .............................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
493
13. details of other special training …………………………………………………………………………………………..
……………………………………………………………………………………………
14. (i) height : cm  (feet : ............... inches: ......... )
     (ii) chest size (without expanding) cm. .........  (inches .........)
15. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a Court of Law, if any, please state the offence and the punishment:
 
............................................................................................................................................................................................
16. attestation of the applicant :
i do hereby declare that information furnished by me in this application is true and correct. i understand 
that any information furnished herein is found to be false or inaccurate prior to selection, which may result in my 
disqualification and if discovered after appointment, may result in my dismissal. I also declare that I will abide- by the 
rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the hold of the examination and 
the release of the results. i also declare that the relevant examination fee has been paid.
...............................                                                         .......................................................,
 date       signature of applicant. 
02-776/1
 ________________________________________
SRI   LANkA   ExCISE   DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Male/Female Excise Guard - 2023
aPPLica TioNs  are called for the post of  Male/female  Excise  Guard in the sri Lanka Excise department from applicants 
who are currently holding posts in the primary service category of the public service.
applications have been posted on the website www.doenets.lk of the sri Lanka Examinations department and, the 
applications should be submitted only through online  system. a copy of the examination application should be handed over 
by the applicant to the relevant authorities to include into his/her personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the 
head of the institution and a letter of proof of service should be furnished at the time of being called for the interview.
The examination will be held only in examination centers established in major cities across the island. (The document 
containing city and city numbers is attached at the end of this notice.) The city/cities applied for sitting to the examination 
should be as per schedule No. 01 and, it is not allowed to change the applied city/cities to be changed later. if adequate 
number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of an examination center in a particular city, those applicants 
will be directed to an examination center to be established in the city indicated as their second preference or in another 
nearby city. further, if adequate number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centers in all or 
more of the proposed cities, the Examination commissioner General will conduct the examination only in colombo.
01. method of recruitment
 Number of Male/female Excise Guard Vacancies: - 100
 10% thereof will be reserved for female applicants.
 Those who are qualified will undergo a competitive examination and those who pass the interview will be recruited by 
awarding the marks.
 If unable to fill the number of posts to be filled under the limited basis, the said posts will be filled from the candidates 
selected under the open basis.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
494
 Recruitment will be based on the results of Written Examination and interview for assessment of Eligibility. The 
written examination will be conducted first and, three times the expected number to be recruited who pass the written 
examination are called for the interview for assessment of Eligibility. Recruitment will be done on the basis of the total 
marks obtained in the written examination and interview for assessment of Eligibility. after verifying that there are no 
excise or other criminal records against them, the selected applicants will be recruited for six (06) months of training, 
of which 03 months will be in the training school and the remaining three (03) months will be field training. Those who 
successfully complete the training will be recruited for the post of Excise Guard.
02. General Job Description of the Post
To find and report information related to excise crimes, to support such raids and to provide assistance in related court 
proceedings, to assist in the up-to-date maintenance and presentation of  excise crime/industrial reports and documents, 
including ancillary duties of the office under the Excise Ordinance and other Ordinances under the purview of the 
Excise Department while carrying out field duties within the assigned area, Poisonous Opium and Dangerous Drugs 
and ordinance, Tobacco Tax act, No. 8 of 1999, National Tobacco and alcohol authority No. 27 of 2006 under the act. 
Performing the duties in factories, distilleries and stores.
inspection and raid of toddy collection centers.
03. Salary Scale 
  a  monthly salary of  Rs.- 1 -2016  Rs. 29,540-7x300-27x370-Rs. 41,630/= eligible for this post (according to the P.a.c 
03/2016).
04. Age Limit :
applicants age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years as at the  date that the applications are called. 
“accordingly, born on or before 22.03.2006 and on or after 22.03.1989 only those who have applied the date are 
eligible to apply for this.”
Eg:- if age should be not less than 18 years  and not more than 35 years to the date 22.03.2024, only those whose 
birthday is on or before 22.03.2006   and on or after 22.03.1989   able to apply .
05.  Education and Other Qualifications:
 every applicant 
i. should have obtained at least 06 credit passes for the sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics including the 
English language at the General Certificate of Education (O/L) Examination in the first sitting.
ii. should have minimum height (without shoes) should be 5 feet 06 inches and the chest should not be less than 
33 inches without expanded for male applicants and height should be 5 feet 2 inches for female applicants.
iii. should have visual acuity of at least 6/6 and 6/12 without glasses or contact lenses including the vision for 
goods recognition.
iv. should possess an excellent moral character
v.  should be physically and mentally fit to work in any part of the island
vi. Priority will be given for sports skills and other extracurricular activities.
vii. all applicants shall be unmarried.
The above qualifications shall have been fulfilled in all respects by the date mentioned in the notification of calling 
applications.
06. Details of written competitive examination
The examination will be held in sinhala and Tamil mediums only. Later changes to the application medium will not be 
allowed.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
495
 Question Paper Time Total Score Passing marks
01.  iQ Test 1 hour 100 40 %
02.  General Knowledge  Paper 1 hour 100 40 %
syllabus for the examination
Name of the Question 
Paper Syllabus
01. iQ Test This is paper is to measure the applicant’s understanding 
ability,intelligence, logical, analytical and decision-making 
ability by examine the applicant’s inferences and responses to 
problems presented in word, numerical and graphical displays.
02.  General Knowledge  
Paper
This is to measure information and general knowledge about 
current and social incidence in sri Lanka and the world.
07. Marks will be awarded for the following qualifications at the interview for assessment of eligibility
i. Additional educational qualifications: 20 marks (Post Graduation/Graduation-10 Marks/Diploma-07 marks/
Certificate Course-03 marks)
ii. sports skills: - (09 marks)
iii. scout/cadet: - (09 marks)
iV . self defense Training:- (09 marks)
V.  Post held in relation to the social services :-(09 marks)
Vi. driving License: - (09 marks)
Vii. computer skills: - (15 marks)
Viii. Language Proficiency: - (15 marks)
iX.  skills shown in the interview: - (05 marks)
08. fees for the Examination:
Online applications should be completed only in the English language. It will be notified that the department accepts/
does not accept the application as a valid application via an sMs to the mobile phone number, used to access to the 
system or to the E-mail address. before completing the application, download the common instructions, prepared to 
apply for the examination. Strictly follow these instructions when filling out the application. Any amendment made to 
the application after taking a printed copy thereof, will not be deemed as a valid amendment.  incomplete applications 
will be rejected without a notice. 
Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Payment of   examination fee shall be made only by the following methods providing by 
the online system.
  i. any bank credit card
  ii. any bank debit cards 
  iii. bank of ceylon online banking Method
  iv. bank of   ceylon Teller slip Payment
Note: instructions on the method of payment under the above method have been given under the technical instructions for 
the examination of the website.
Payment will be notified by a SMS. The full amount for the examination fee should be paid and applications that pay less 
or more examination fees will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for the delays in the 
payment of examination fees by the aforesaid method.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
496
fees paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination for any reason.
09. Training period:
All selected candidates will first be appointed as Male/Female Trainee Excise Guards and for appointment to the post of 
Male/female Excise Guard they will have to undergo minimum 06 months training and then pass the prescribed tests. 
Three (03) months thereof will be in the training school and the remaining three (03) months will be field training. Those 
who successfully complete the training will be recruited for the post of Excise Guard.
a training allowance will be paid for a training period of at least six (06) months from the date of primary 
appointment for Excise Guard Trainee. (Training allowance will be decided at the time of recruitment.)
10. Probation Period:
Applicants who complete the training successfully will be appointed to the post of Excise Guard subject to a 03-year 
probationary period. At the end of the probationary period, if they pass the efficiency bar examinations conducted as per 
the approved recruitment procedure, they will be confirmed in the relavent post.
11. Conditions of Employment:
 i. This position is permanent. Pensionable.
 ii. May be appointed to serve in any part of the island.
12. Conditions of Service 
 i. It shall be bound to act according to the official language law and all laws and regulations enacted by the government 
from time to time.
 ii. chapter iii, chapter Vii and chapter Viii of group i of the procedural Rules published in the Gazette dated 
14.12.2022 are applicable.
 iii. Applicants will be checked for physical fitness before the structured interview.
13. The commissioner General of sri Lanka Excise department has the power to terminate the appointment of applicants 
who fail to assume the duties of the post conferred to him/her on the due date and who refuse or avoid assuming the 
duties of an appointed post or an appointed area.
14. The commissioner General of examinations will issue the admission cards to the applicants who have paid the prescribed 
examination fee, submitted the duly completed online applications on or before the closing date of applications, on the 
presumption that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the Gazette notification have 
forwarded the applications. The department of Examinations will publish a notice immediately after the issuance of 
admissions. if admissions have not been received as mentioned in the notice, those applicants should inquire about it 
from the institutional Examination organization branch, department of Examinations. such applicants should clearly 
mention the name of the examination they applied for, the applicant’s full name, National identity card number, and 
the address. if the applicant lives outside colombo, it is more fruitful to inquire with a request letter mentioning a fax 
number to fax a copy of the admission to the applicant. Keeping a copy of the completed application and a copy of 
the receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee will be more fruitful to verify any information inquired by the 
department of Examinations. 
 Issuing an admission to the candidate does not confirm that he/she has fulfilled all the requirements required to sit for 
the examination.
 The attested admission should be handed over to the examiner in charge of the examination on the first day of the 
examination.
15. applicants should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the examiner in charge of the examination center for all 
subjects of the examination. Any of the following documents will be accepted. 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
497
  I. National Identity Card;
  II. Valid Passport; 
  iii. Valid sri Lankan driving License. 
applicants who fail to produce any of the above documents are not allowed to sit for the examination. also, the 
candidates should expose their identity without covering their face and ears when they enter the examination hall. 
applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further, the applicants should remain 
with their faces and ears uncovered till they leave the examination hall, enabling the examination authorities to identify 
the applicant.
16. signature of the applicant placed on the admission card as well as on the application should get his/her signature attested 
by the Head of institution or any other officer authorized to sign on behalf of such Head of institution.
17.  applicants will be liable to rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in relevant to 
conducting examination and issuance of results. if in case of violation of such rules and regulations, he/she will be liable 
to any penalty imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
18.  in the event of any mismatch or inconsistency between the language texts of this Notice that published in sinhala, Tamil 
and English, the sinhala medium notice shall prevail.
                                                                                                      M.J.Gunasiri,
                                                                                                      Excise commissioner General.
sri Lanka Excise department.
Include headings 1-6 on the first page of the application and the rest on other pages as appropriate.
Schedule 01
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
anuradhapura 07
badulla 08
Ratnapura 09

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
498
SPECImEN APPLICATION 
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF MALE/ FEMALE 
ExCISE GuARD Of  ThE ExCISE DEPARTmENT Of  SRI LANkA - 2023
1. Medium    
1.1 Medium that sitting for the examination     
sinhala - 1
Tamil – 2
English – 3
(Write the relevant number in the box)
1.2 Medium that sitting for the examination      
City City No.
(see schedule 1) 
2. (i) full Name (in sinhala/Tamil) : ..................................................................................  
(ii) full Name (in block letters) : ....................................................................................  
(iii) Name with initials: ...................................................................................................
       (in block letters)
3. (i) Permanent address (in block letters) : .........................................................................
(ii) divisional secretary’s division: ................................................................................  
(iii) Grama Niladhari divisions : ....................................................................................  
(iv) Nearest Police station: .............................................................................................  
(v) Nearest Excise station: ..............................................................................................  
(vi) Postal address : ........................................................................................................  
       (for sending exam admissions)
4. Gender: -
Male - 0
female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the box)
5. National identity card Number :
6. Mobile Number : 
7. date of birth :
         y ears : ........... Months : ...............  days : .......................... to the date 22.03.2024
8. are you a sri Lankan citizen ?
( state whether you are a sri Lankan citizen by descend or a registration)
9. Nationality: ................................

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
499
10. civil status:…………………..
11. Educational Qualifications -
(i) Passes in G.E.c. (o.L) Examination
year : ............... 
index No. : .............
Subject Pass
(ii) Passes in G.E.c. ( a.L ) Examination
year : ...............
index No : .............
Subject Pass
(III) Other Educational Qualification - …………………………………
12. occupations done/courses followed after school
Name of the 
occupation or 
course
Period
(from-to)
institute if an occupation, 
reasons to resign
13. details of sports and extra curricular activities : 
          ..........................................................................................................................
          ..........................................................................................................................

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
500
14. details of other special training /V olunteer force services ,if any ……………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
15.  (i) height: cm (feet: ............... inches: .........)
      (ii) chest size (without expanding) cm. ..........
        (inches .........)
16. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a Court of Law, if any, please state the offence and the punishment:  
 ......................................................................................................................................................................
  
17. attestation of the applicant
 i do hereby declare that information furnished by me in this application is true and correct. i understand that any 
information furnished herein is found to be false or inaccurate prior to selection, which may result in my disqualification 
and if discovered after appointment, may result in my dismissal. i also declare that i will abide- by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the hold of the examination and the 
release of the results. i also declare that the relevant examination fee has been paid.
 ............................... ......................................................................
 date signature of applicant 
02-776/2
SRI  LANkA  ExCISE   DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of  Excise Guard Driver - 2023
aPPLica TioNs  are called from citizens of Sri Lanka who fulfilled the following qualifications for the Open Competitive 
Examination to recruit for the post of Excise Guard driver of the sri Lanka Excise department. 
02. applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent under registered cover to reach the 
“Excise Commissioner General, Sri Lanka Excise Department, No.353, Kotte Road, Rajagiriya” on or before 
21.03.2024. “Excise Guard Driver  “should be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. incomplete 
Applications and Applications received after the closing date will be rejected. Receipt of Applications will not be 
acknowledged.
03.  monthly Salary Scheme: - Rs. 29,540 – 7 x 300 -27x370-41,630/-. it will be placed on the monthly salary of Rs.29,540/- 
The first efficiency bar examination shall be passed before  the said salary step is exceeded as per the P.A.C.3/2016, 
Rs.01-2016 (Pc).
04.  Age Limit: - should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications 
(Maximum age limit is not applicable to applicants currently in Provincial/Public service).
05.  All the qualifications related to recruitment to the post should be completed in every way by the last date of the 
notification of application.
   (i) Educational Qualifications:-
All applicants should have  passed  six (06) subjects including Mathematics with credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil and for one other subject at G.C.E.(Ordinary Level) Examination in not more than two attempts, having 
passed 05 subjects at one attempt.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
501
 (II) Professional Qualification :-
  All Applicants :-
 a. should have a sound knowledge on the highway code.
 b. should have basic knowledge on Motor Mechanics.
 c. should possess a valid driving license issued by the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic for 
driving motor buses, motor coaches, “a” class.
 (III) Work Experience :-
  applicant should have obtained 03 years of work experience as a driver in a recognized organization 
subsequently to obtain a driving license of the relevant category.
 (IV) Physical Qualifications :
  All applicants :-
 i. should have minimum height should be 5’4” inches.
 ii. should have minimum 32 (inches) chest size when exhaled.
 iii. should have Eyesight/vision of at least 6/6 and 6/12 without glasses or contact lenses including the 
vision for goods recognition.
 iv. should be physically and mentally fit to work in any part of the island.
      (V) Other Qualifications :
            he/she should be a citizen of sri Lanka and possess an excellent moral character.
06. method of recruitment:
 (i) Applications are called by publishing a notification on the Government Gazette or famous newspaper and website 
and eligible applicants will undergo a written examination and a professional test. The Written examination will 
be conducted in sinhala and Tamil medium and general knowledge on highway rules and Motor Mechanics will 
be tested. Later changes to the language medium requested by you will not be allowed.
 (ii) out of the applicants who obtain highest marks at the written test, twice of number of vacancies available will be 
called for physical fitness test and practical driving test, and it will be selected to appoint for the post of Excise 
Guard driver in order of merit base on the marks obtained at the said test and the written examination.
 (iii) Written Examination:        
Subjects Duration Total  mark Pass mark
i. highway Rules and Motor Mechanics 03 hours 100 40%
ii.common Test 01 hour 30 Min 100 40%
Syllabus for the Examination
Question Paper Syllabus
i. highway Rules and Motor Mechanics a Question Paper to test the knowledge of highway rules, 
mechanic field and basic understanding of the defects related to 
the said field.
ii.common Test Paper This is common Question Paper prepared to test the General 
knowledge of the applicants.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
502
 Conducting Authority: appointing authority or an institute approved by the appointing authority.
 (iv) Professional Test: This is a practical test to measure the driving skills of the applicant.
Total score Pass Mark
driving skills 40 40%
 Conducting Authority: This professional test will be conducted in terms the directions of the Excise commissioner 
General under the supervision of a panel consisting of an Examiner of Motor Vehicles of the department of Motor 
Traffic, an officer of the Police Service and an officer of the Department.
 (v) Physical Fitness Test:  For evaluating the relevant qualifications as per the Section 7.2.2.4 in the recruitment 
procedure.
 (vi) General Interview:
   Objectives to be achieved:    To evaluate whether the person is suitable in all respects for the post of Excise Guard 
driver
                                                   To evaluate whether the person possess necessary basic qualifications (Verification of 
Certificates)
appointing authority of General interview board: commissioner General of Excise
07.  Service Conditions: This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointees will subject to the policy decisions taken 
by the Government, regarding the pension scheme in future. further, appointees should contribute to the Widow’s/
Widower’s, orphans’ Pension scheme. appointees should pay the relevant contribution fee in the manner ordered by 
the Government from time to time. This is a post of the uniformed staff administered under the orders of the Excise 
department of sri Lanka. 
08.  conditions stipulated in Procedural Rules of the Public service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No. 2310/29  dated  14.12.2023  and the provisions of the Establishment code will be applicable. 
09. any matter not provided for in the scheme of Recruitment relevant to this appointment will be decided having consulted 
the Public service commission.
10.  applicants who are called for the interview shall be informed in written. Transport expenses, etc. shall not be paid in 
this respect.
 M. J. Gunasiri,
 Excise commissioner General.
date-22
nd  day of february,2024.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
503
SPECImEN APPLICATION 
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of  ExCISE GuARD DRIvER 
Of ThE ExCISE DEPARTmENT Of  SRI LANkA - 2023
01. (a)  Full Name (in mother tongue):-. ...............................................................................................................................
  ...................................................................................................................................................................................
 (b)  Full Name (in English) :- .........................................................................................................................................
             (Use Block Letters)...................................................................................................................................................
 (c) Name with initials :- ...........................................................................................
  ...................................................................................................................................
02. National Identity Card Number :- 
03. Mobile Phone Number
   
04. Present Address :- ............................................................................................................................................................
 ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (a)  Permanent Address :- ............................................................................................................................................
  ................................................................................................................................................................................
 (b) Police Station :- ..............................................................................................
05.	 Whether	you	are	a	Sri	Lankan	Citizen	by	descend	or	a	registration	(If	by	registration,	attach	a	copy	of	the	said	certificate)
06. Civil Status :- ...................................................................................................
07. Date of Birth :- 
Year :- ..........................     Month :- ....................     Date :- ........................  
 
08. Age as at the closing date of the application as per the Gazette	Notification	:-
Year :- ..........................     Month :- ....................     Date :- .........................
(Attach	a	copy	of	the	Birth	Certificate)

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2024
504
09.	 Educational	Qualifications	
 Index Number:                                     Year:
Subject Pass
10. Size of the Chest (without inhaling) CM: ....................... Inches : ............................)
11. Height: CM: .................................    Feet : ........................  Inches : ............................)
12. The language medium which you apply for the written examination and professional test : 
          Sinhala            Tamil
13. Names, Designations and Addresses of two referees 
 (i)…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (ii) ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………….………………………………………………
14. details if you have held any post in Government/Provincial Government service earlier,
i. Present designation and work station:- ....................................................................................................................
 ..................................................................................................................................................................................
ii. if you have resigned  from the post, please state the reasons. ................................................................................
            .................................................................................................................................................................................
i do hereby declare that information furnished by me in this application is true and correct. i understand that any information 
furnished herein is found to be false or inaccurate prior to selection, which may result in my disqualification and if discovered 
after appointment, may result in my dismissal without compensation. 
  ................................................................
  date :- …………………………..                signature of applicant 
02-828
PRiNTEd  a T   ThE   dEP aRTMENT   of  GoVERNMENT   PRiNTiNG ,  sRi  LaNKa.