

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1738$40 - 2011 foieïn¾ 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'12'30
No. 1738/40  -  FRIDAY ,  DECEMBER  30,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
SRI  LANKA   ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15  OF  1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”),
the Institute has adopted the changes to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS & LKAS) with effect from 1 January, 2012,
published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These changes
shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand
Twelve.
By Order of  the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
28th December, 2011
N.B.—Sinhala and Tamil versions are printed separately.
1A-PG001326-380(2011/12)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
2A
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Changes with effect from 01 January 2012
CONTENTS
[1] Conceptual Framework
[2] SLFRS 1-First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
[3] SLFRS 2-Share-based Payment
[4] SLFRS 3-Business Combinations
[5] SLFRS 4-Insurance Contracts
[6] SLFRS 5-Non-Current Assets Held for Sale & Discontinued Operations
[7] SLFRS 7-Financial Instruments: Disclosures
[8] SLFRS 8-Operating Segments
[9] LKAS 1-Presentation of Financial Statements
[10] LKAS 2-Inventories
[11] LKAS 7-Statement of Cash Flows
[12] LKAS 8-Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates & Errors
[13] LKAS 12-Income Taxes
[14] LKAS 17-Leases
[15] LKAS 18-Revenue
[16] LKAS 19-Employee Benefits
[17] LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and
Disclosure of Government Assistance
[18] LKAS 21-The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
[19] LKAS 24-Related Party Disclosures
[20] LKAS 27-Consolidated & Separate Financial Statements
[21] LKAS 28-Investments in Associates
[22] LKAS 31-Interests in Joint V entures
[23] LKAS 32-Financial Instruments: Presentation
[24] LKAS 34-Interim Financial Reporting
[25] LKAS 36-Impairment of Assets
[26] LKAS 37-Provisions, Contingent Liabilities & Contingent Assets
[27] LKAS 38-Intangible Assets
[28] LKAS 39-Financial Instruments: Recognition & Measurement
[29] LKAS 40-Investment Property
[30] LKAS 41-Agriculture

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
3A
THE CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
CONTENTS
paragraphs
INTRODUCTION
Purpose and status
Scope
CHAPTERS
1 The objective of general purpose financial
reporting OB1–OB21
2 The reporting entity to be added
3 Qualitative characteristics of useful financial
information QC1–QC39
4 The Framework: the remaining text
Underlying assumption 4.1
The elements of financial statements  4.2–4.36
Recognition of the elements of financial statements 4.37–4.53
Measurement of the elements of financial statements 4.54–4.56
Concepts of capital and capital maintenance 4.57–4.65
FOR THE  ACCOMPANYING  DOCUMENTS  BELOW,  SEE  THE  APPLICA TION  GUIDENCE
BASIS  FOR  CONCLUSIONS  ON  CHAPTERS  1  AND  3
TABLE OF CONCORDANCE
The Introduction has been carried forward from the Framework. This will be updated when the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (The Council) considers the purpose of the Conceptual Framework.
Until then, the purpose and the status of the Conceptual Framework are the same as before.
Introduction
Financial statements are prepared and presented for external users by many entities around the world. Although such
financial statements may appear similar from country to country, there are differences which have probably been caused by
a variety of social, economic and legal circumstances and by different countries having in mind the needs of different users
of financial statements when setting national requirements.
These different circumstances have led to the use of a Variety of definitions of the elements of financial statements:
for example, assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses. They have also resulted in the use of different criteria for the
recognition of items in the financial statements and in a preference for different bases of measurement. The scope of the
financial statements and the disclosures made in them have also been affected.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
4A
The Council is committed to narrowing these differences by seeking to harmonise regulations, accounting standards and
procedures relating to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. It believes that further harmonisation can
best be pursued by focusing on financial statements that are prepared for the purpose of providing information that is useful
in making economic decisions.
The Council believes that financial statements prepared for this purpose meet the common needs of most users. This is
because nearly all users are making economic decisions, for example:
(a) to decide when to buy, hold or sell an equity investment,
(b) to assess the stewardship or accountability of management,
(c) to assess the ability of the entity to pay and provide other benefits to its employees,
(d) to assess the security for amounts lent to the entity,
(e) to determine taxation policies,
(f) to determine distributable profits and dividends,
(g) to prepare and use national income statistics,
(h) to regulate the activities of entities.
The Council recognises, however, that the Government, in particular, may specify different or additional requirements for its
own purposes. These requirements should not, however, affect financial statements published for the benefit of other users
unless they also meet the needs of those other users.
Financial statements are most commonly prepared in accordance with an accounting model based on recoverable historical
cost and the nominal financial capital maintenance concept. Other models and concepts may be more appropriate in order to
meet the objective of providing information that is useful for making economic decisions although there is at present no
consensus for change. This Conceptual Framework has been developed so that it is applicable to a range of accounting
models and concepts of capital and capital maintenance.
Purpose and status
* This Conceptual Framework sets out the concepts that underlie the preparation and presentation of financial statements
for external users. The purpose of the Conceptual Framework is:
(a) to assist the Council in the development of future Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and in its review of existing
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards ;
(b) to assist the Council in promoting harmonisation of regulations, accounting standards and procedures relating
to the presentation of financial statements by providing a basis for reducing the number of alternative
accounting treatments permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards;
(c) to assist the Council in developing  Sri Lanka Accounting  Standards;
(d) to assist preparers of financial statements in applying Sri Lanka Accounting  Standards and in dealing with
topics that have yet to form the subject of a  Sri Lanka Accounting Standards;
(e) to assist auditors in forming an opinion on whether financial statements comply with  Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards;
(f) to assist users of financial statements in interpreting the information contained in financial statements prepared
in compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting  Standards ; and

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
5A
(g) to provide those who are interested in the work of the Council with information about its approach to the
formulation of Sri Lanka Accounting  Standards.
* This Conceptual Framework is not a Sri Lanka Accounting Standard and hence does not define standards for any
particular measurement or disclosure issue. Nothing in this Conceptual Framework overrides any specific Sri Lanka
Accounting Standard. The Council recognises that in a limited number of cases there may be a conflict between the Conceptual
Framework and a Sri Lanka Accounting Standard. In those cases where there is a conflict, the requirements of the Sri Lanka
Accounting Standard prevail over those of the Conceptual Framework . As, however, the Council will be guided by the
Conceptual Framework in the development of future Standards and  in its review of existing Standards, the number of cases
of conflict between the Conceptual Framework and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards will diminish through time.
* The Conceptual Framework will be revised from time to time on the basis of the Council’s experience of working with it.
Scope
* The Conceptual Framework deals with:
(a) the objective of financial reporting;
(b) the qualitative characteristics of useful financial information;
(c) the definition, recognition and measurement of the elements from which financial statements are constructed;
and
(d) concepts of capital and capital maintenance.
CHAPTER 1: THE OBJECTIVE OF GENERAL PURPOSE
FINANCIAL REPORTING
Paragraphs
* INTRODUCTION OB1
* OBJECTIVE, USEFULNESS AND  LIMITA TIONS  OF
* GENERAL  PURPOSE  FINANCIAL  REPORTING OB2–OB11
* INFORMATION  ABOUT  A  REPORTING  ENTITY’S
* ECONOMIC  RESOURCES, CLAIMS, AND
* CHANGES  IN  RESOURCES  AND  CLAIMS OB12–OB21
* Economic resources and claims OB13–OB14
* Changes in economic resources and claims OB15–OB21
* Financial performance reflected by accrual accounting OB17–OB19
* Financial performance reflected by past cash flows OB20
* Changes in economic resources and claims not
* resulting from financial performance OB21
* Chapter 1: The objective of general purpose financial reporting

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
6A
Introduction
OB1 The objective of general purpose financial reporting forms the foundation of the Conceptual Framework. Other
aspects of the Conceptual Framework —a reporting entity concept, the qualitative characteristics of, and the
constraint on, useful financial information, elements of financial statements, recognition, measurement, presentation
and disclosure—flow logically from the objective.
Objective, usefulness and limitations of general purpose financial reporting
OB2 The objective of general purpose financial reporting
* is to provide financial information about the reporting entity
that is useful to existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors in making decisions about providing
resources to the entity. Those decisions involve buying, selling or holding equity and debt instruments, and
providing or settling loans and other forms of credit.
OB3 Decisions by existing and potential investors about buying, selling or holding equity and debt instruments depend
on the returns that they expect from an investment in those instruments, for example dividends, principal and
interest payments or market price increases. Similarly, decisions by existing and potential lenders and other creditors
about providing or settling loans and other forms of credit depend on the principal and interest payments or other
returns that they expect. Investors’, lenders’ and other creditors’ expectations about returns depend on their
assessment of the amount, timing and uncertainty of (the prospects for) future net cash inflows to the entity.
Consequently, existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors need information to help them asses the
prospects for future net cash inflows to an entity.
OB4 To assess an entity’s prospects for future net cash inflows, existing and potential investors, lenders and other
creditors need information about the resources of the entity, claims against the entity, and how efficiently and
effectively the entity’s management and governing board
† have discharged their responsibilities to use the entity’s
resources. Examples of such responsibilities include protecting the entity’s resources from un favourable effects of
economic factors such as price and technological changes and ensuring that the entity complies with applicable
laws, regulations and contractual provisions. Information about management’s discharge of its responsibilities is
also useful for decisions by existing investors, lenders and other creditors who have the right to vote on or
otherwise influence management’s actions.
OB5 Many existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors cannot require reporting entities to provide
information directly to them and must rely on general purpose financial reports for much of the financial information
they need. Consequently, they are the primary users to whom general purpose financial reports are directed.
OB6 However, general purpose financial reports do not and cannot provide all of the information that existing and
potential investors, lenders and other creditors need. Those users need to consider pertinent information from other
sources, for example, general economic conditions and expectations, political events and political climate, and
industry and company outlooks.
OB7 General purpose financial reports are not designed to show the value of a reporting entity; but they provide
information to help existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors to estimate the value of the reporting
entity.
* Throughout this Conceptmad  Framework, the terms financial reports and financial reporting refer to general purpose
financial report and general purpose financial reporting unless specifically indicated otherwise.Throughout this
Conceptual Framework, the term management refers to management and the governing board of an entity unless
specifically indicated otherwise.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
7A
OB8 Individual primary users have different, and possibly conflicting, information needs and desires. The Council, in
developing financial reporting standards, will seek to provide the information set that will meet the needs of the
maximum number of primary users. However, focusing on common information needs does not prevent the reporting
entity from including additional information that is most useful to a particular subset of primary users.
OB9 The management of a reporting entity is also interested in financial information about the entity. However, management
need not rely on general purpose financial reports because it is able to obtain the financial information it needs
internally.
OB10 Other parties, such as regulators and members of the public other than investors, lenders and other creditors, may
also find general purpose financial reports useful. However, those reports are not primarily directed to these other
groups.
OB11 To a large extent, financial reports are based on estimates, judgments and models rather than exact depictions. The
Conceptual Framework establishes the concepts that underlie those estimates, judgments and models. The concepts
are the goal towards which the Council and preparers of financial reports strive. As with most goals, the Conceptual
Framework’s vision of ideal financial reporting is unlikely to be achieved in full, at least not in the short term,
because it takes time to understand, accept and implement new ways of analysing transactions and other events.
Nevertheless, establishing a goal towards which to strive is essential if financial reporting is to evolve so as to
improve its usefulness.
Information about a reporting entity’s economic resources, claims, and changes in resources and claims
OB12 General purpose financial reports provide information about the financial position of a reporting entity, which is
information about the entity’s economic resources and the claims against the reporting entity. Financial reports also
provide information about the effects of transactions and other events that change a reporting entity’s economic
resources and claims. Both types of information provide useful input for decisions about providing resources to an
entity.
Economic resources and claims
OB13 Information about the nature and amounts of a reporting entity’s economic resources and claims can help users to
identify the reporting entity’s financial strengths and weaknesses. That information can help users to assess the
reporting entity’s liquidity and solvency, its needs for additional financing and how successful it is likely to be in
obtaining that financing. Information about priorities and payment requirements of existing claims helps users to
predict how future cash flows will be distributed among those with a claim against the reporting entity.
OB14 Dif ferent types of economic resources affect a user’s assessment of the reporting entity’s prospects for future cash
flows differently. Some future cash flows result directly from existing economic resources, such as accounts receivable.
Other cash flows result from using several resources in combination to produce and market goods or services to
customers. Although those cash flows cannot be identified with individual economic resources (or claims), users of
financial reports need to know the nature and amount of the resources available for use in a reporting entity’s
operations.
Changes in economic resources and claims
OB15 Changes in a reporting entity’s economic resources and claims result from that entity’s financial performance (see
paragraphs OB17–OB20) and from other events or transactions such as issuing debt or equity instruments (see
paragraph OB21). To properly assess the prospects for future cash flows from the reporting entity, users need to be
able to distinguish between both of these changes.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
8A
OB16 Information about a reporting entity’s financial performance helps users to understand the return that the entity has
produced on its economic resources. Information about the return the entity has produced provides an indication
of how well management has discharged its responsibilities to make efficient and effective use of the reporting
entity’s resources. Information about the variability and components of that return is also important, especially in
assessing the uncertainty of future cash flows. Information about a reporting entity’s past financial performance
and how its management discharged its responsibilities is usually helpful in predicting the entity’s future returns on
its economic resources.
Financial performance reflected by accrual accounting
OB 17 Accrual accounting depicts the effects of transactions and other events and circumstances on a reporting entity’s
economic resources and claims in the periods in which those effects occur, even if the resulting cash receipts and
payments occur in a different period. This is important because information about a reporting entity’s economic
resources and claims and changes in its economic resources and claims during a period provides a better basis for
assessing the entity’s past and future performance than information solely about cash receipts and payments
during that period.
OB 18 Information about a reporting entity’s financial performance during a period, reflected by changes in its economic
resources and claims other than by obtaining additional resources directly from investors and creditors (see paragraph
OB21),is useful in assessing the entity’s past and future ability to generate net cash inflows. That information
indicates the extent to which the reporting entity has increased its available economic resources, and thus its
capacity for generating net cash inflows through its operations rather than by obtaining additional resources
directly from investors and creditors.
OB 19 Information about a reporting entity’s financial performance during a period may also indicate the extent to which
events such as changes in market prices or interest rates have increased or decreased the entity’s economic
resources and claims, thereby affecting the entity’s ability to generate net cash inflows.
Financial performance reflected by past cash flows
OB 20 Information about a reporting entity’s cash flows during a period also helps users to assess the entity’s ability to
generate future net cash inflows. It indicates how the reporting entity obtains and spends cash, including information
about its borrowing and repayment of debt, cash dividends or other cash distributions to investors, and other
factors that may affect the entity’s liquidity or solvency. Information about cash flows helps users understand a
reporting entity’s operations, evaluate its financing and investing activities, assess its liquidity or solvency and
interpret other information about financial performance.
Changes in economic resources and claims not resulting from financial performance
OB 21 A reporting entity’s economic resources and claims may also change for reasons other than financial performance,
such as issuing additional ownership shares. Information about this type of change is necessary to give users a
complete understanding of why the reporting entity’s economic resources and claims changed and the implications
of those changes for its future financial performance.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
9A
CHAPTER 2: THE REPORTING ENTITY
[to be added]
CHAPTER 3: QUALITATIVE   CHARACTERISTICS   OF   USEFUL   FINANCIAL  INFORMATION
Paragraphs
INTRODUCTION QC1–QC3
QUALITATIVE   CHARACTERISTICS   OF   USEFUL
FINANCIAL  INFORMATION QC4–QC34
Fundamental qualitative characteristics QC5–QC18
Relevance QC6–QC11
Materiality QC11
Faithful representation QC12–QC16
Applying the fundamental qualitative characteristics QC17–QC18
Enhancing qualitative characteristics QC19–QC34
Comparability QC20–QC25
V erifiability QC26–QC28
Timeliness QC29
Understandability QC30–QC32
Applying the enhancing characteristics QC33–QC34
THE  COST  CONSTRAINT  ON  USEFUL  FINANCIAL  REPORTING QC35–QC39
Chapter 3: Qualitative characteristics of useful financial
information
Introduction
QC1 The qualitative characteristics of useful financial information discussed in this chapter identify the types of
information that are likely to be most useful to the existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors for
making decisions about the reporting entity on the basis of information in its financial report (financial information).
QC2 Financial reports provide information about the reporting entity’s economic resources, claims against the reporting
entity and the effects of transactions and other events and conditions that change those resources and claims.
(This information is referred to in the Conceptual Framework as information about the economic phenomena.)
Some financial reports also include explanatory material about management’s expectations and strategies for the
reporting entity, and other types of forward-looking information.
QC3 The qualitative characteristics of useful financial information
* apply to financial information provided in financial
statements, as well as to financial information provided in other ways. Cost, which is a pervasive constraint on the
* Throughout this conceptual Framework, the terms of qualitative characteristics and constraint refer to the qualitative
characteristics of, and the constraint on, useful financial information.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
10A
reporting entity’s ability to provide useful financial information, applies similarly. However, the considerations in
applying the qualitative characteristics and the cost constraint may be different for different types of information.
For example, applying them to forward-looking information may be different from applying them to information
about existing economic resources and claims and to changes in those resources and claims.
Qualitative characteristics of useful financial information
QC4 If financial information is to be useful, it must be relevant and faithfully represent what it purports to represent. The
usefulness of financial information is enhanced if it is comparable, verifiable, timely and understandable.
Fundamental qualitative characteristics
QC5 The fundamental qualitative characteristics are relevance and faithful representation.
Relevance
QC6 Relevant financial information is capable of making a difference in the decisions made by users. Information may be
capable of making a difference in a decision even if some users choose not to take advantage of it or are already
aware of it from other sources.
QC7 Financial information is capable of making a difference in decisions if it has predictive value, confirmatory value or
both.
QC8 Financial information has predictive value if it can be used as an input to processes employed by users to predict
future outcomes. Financial information need not be a prediction or forecast to have predictive value. Financial
information with predictive value is employed by users in making their own predictions.
QC9 Financial information has confirmatory value if it provides feedback about (confirms or changes) previous evaluations.
QC10 The predictive value and confirmatory value of financial information are interrelated. Information that has predictive
value often also has confirmatory value. For example, revenue information for the current year, which can be used as
the basis for predicting revenues in future years, can also be compared with revenue predictions for the current year
that were made in past years. The results of those comparisons can help a user to correct and improve the processes
that were used to make those previous predictions.
Materiality
QC11 Information is material if omitting it or misstating it could influence decisions that users make on the basis of
financial information about a specific reporting entity. In other words, materiality is an entity-specific aspect of
relevance based on the nature or magnitude, or both, of the items to which the information relates in the context of
an individual entity’s financial report. Consequently, the Council cannot specify a uniform quantitative threshold
for materiality or predetermine what could be material in a particular situation.
Faithful representation
QC12 Financial reports represent economic phenomena in words and numbers. To be useful, financial information must
not only represent relevant phenomena, but it must also faithfully represent the phenomena that it purports to
represent. To be a perfectly faithful representation, a depiction would have three characteristics. It would be
complete, neutral and free from error. Of course, perfection is seldom, if ever, achievable. The Council’s objective
is to maximise those qualities to the extent possible.
QC13 A complete depiction includes all information necessary for a user to understand the phenomenon being depicted,
including all necessary descriptions and explanations. For example, a complete depiction of a group of assets would
include, at a minimum, a description of the nature of the assets in the group, a numerical depiction of all of the assets
in the group, and a description of what the numerical depiction represents (for example, original cost, adjusted cost
or fair value). For some items, a complete depiction may also entail explanations of significant facts about the quality

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
11A
and nature of the items, factors and circumstances that might affect their quality and nature, and the process used
to determine the numerical depiction.
QC14 A neutral depiction is without bias in the selection or presentation of financial information. A neutral depiction is not
slanted, weighted, emphasised, de-emphasised or otherwise manipulated to increase the probability that financial
information will be received favorably or unfavorably by users. Neutral information does not mean information with
no purpose or no influence on behavior. On the contrary, relevant financial information is, by definition, capable of
making a difference in users’ decisions.
QC15 Faithful representation does not mean accurate in all respects. Free from error means there are no errors or omissions
in the description of the phenomenon, and the process used to produce the reported information has been selected
and applied with no errors in the process. In this context, free from error does not mean perfectly accurate in all
respects. For example, an estimate of an unobservable price or value cannot be determined to be accurate or
inaccurate. However, a representation of that estimate can be faithful if the amount is described clearly and accurately
as being an estimate, the nature and limitations of the estimating process are explained, and no errors have been
made in selecting and applying an appropriate process for developing the estimate.
QC16 A faithful representation, by itself, does not necessarily result in useful information. For example, a reporting entity
may receive property, plant and equipment through a government grant. Obviously, reporting that an entity acquired
an asset at no cost would faithfully represent its cost, but that information would probably not be very useful. A
slightly more subtle example is an estimate of the amount by which an asset’s carrying amount should be adjusted
to reflect an impairment in the asset’s value. That estimate can be a faithful representation if the reporting entity has
properly applied an appropriate process, properly described the estimate and explained any uncertainties that
significantly affect the estimate. However, if the level of uncertainty in such an estimate is sufficiently large, that
estimate will not be particularly useful. In other words, the relevance of the asset being faithfully represented is
questionable. If there is no alternative representation that is more faithful, that estimate may provide the best
available information.
Applying the fundamental qualitative characteristics
QC17 Information must be both relevant and faithfully represented if it is to be useful. Neither a faithful representation of
an irrelevant phenomenon nor an unfaithful representation of a relevant phenomenon helps users make good
decisions.
QC18 The most efficient and effective process for applying the fundamental qualitative characteristics would usually be
as follows (subject to the effects of enhancing characteristics and the cost constraint, which are not considered in
this example). First, identify an economic phenomenon that has the potential to be useful to users of the reporting
entity’s financial information. Second, identify the type of information about that phenomenon that would be most
relevant if it is available and can be faithfully represented. Third, determine whether that information is available and
can be faithfully represented. If so, the process of satisfying the fundamental qualitative characteristics ends at that
point. If not, the process is repeated with the next most relevant type of information.
Enhancing qualitative characteristics
QC19 Comparability , verifiability , timeliness and understandability are qualitative characteristics that enhance the
usefulness of information that is relevant and faithfully represented. The enhancing qualitative characteristics may
also help determine which of two ways should be used to depict a phenomenon if both are considered equally
relevant and faithfully represented.
Comparability
QC20 Users’ decisions involve choosing between alternatives, for example, selling or holding an investment, or investing
in one reporting entity or another. Consequently, information about a reporting entity is more useful if it can be
compared with similar information about other entities and with similar information about the same entity for another
period or another date.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
12A
QC21 Comparability is the qualitative characteristic that enables users to identify and understand similarities in, and
differences among, items. Unlike the other qualitative characteristics, comparability does not relate to a single item.
A comparison requires at least two items.
QC22 Consistency, although related to comparability, is not the same. Consistency refers to the use of the same methods
for the same items, either from period to period within a reporting entity or in a single period across entities.
Comparability is the goal; consistency helps to achieve that goal.
QC23 Comparability is not uniformity. For information to be comparable, like things must look alike and different things
must look different. Comparability of financial information is not enhanced by making unlike things look alike any
more than it is enhanced by making like things look different.
QC24 Some degree of comparability is likely to be attained by satisfying the fundamental qualitative characteristics. A
faithful representation of a relevant economic phenomenon should naturally possess some degree of comparability
with a faithful representation of a similar relevant economic phenomenon by another reporting entity.
QC25 Although a single economic phenomenon can be faithfully represented in multiple ways, permitting alternative
accounting methods for the same economic phenomenon diminishes comparability.
Verifiability
QC26 V erifiability helps assure users that information faithfully represents the economic phenomena it purports to represent.
Verifiability means that different knowledgeable and independent observers could reach consensus, although not
necessarily complete agreement, that a particular depiction is a faithful representation. Quantified information need
not be a single point estimate to be verifiable. A range of possible amounts and the related probabilities can also be
verified.
QC27 V erification can be direct or indirect. Direct verification means verifying an amount or other representation through
direct observation, for example, by counting cash. Indirect verification means checking the inputs to a model,
formula or other technique and recalculating the outputs using the same methodology. An example is verifying the
carrying amount of inventory by checking the inputs (quantities and costs) and recalculating the ending inventory
using the same cost flow assumption (for example, using the first-in, first-out method).
QC28 It may not be possible to verify some explanations and forward-looking financial information until a future period, if
at all. To help users decide whether they want to use that information, it would normally be necessary to disclose the
underlying assumptions, the methods of compiling the information and other factors and circumstances that support
the information.
Timeliness
QC29 Timeliness means having information available to decision-makers in time to be capable of influencing their decisions.
Generally, the older the information is the less useful it is. However, some information may continue to be timely long
after the end of a reporting period because, for example, some users may need to identify and assess trends.
Understandability
QC30 Classifying, characterising and presenting information clearly and concisely makes it understandable.
QC31 Some phenomena are inherently complex and cannot be made easy to understand. Excluding information about
those phenomena from financial reports might make the information in those financial reports easier to understand.
However, those reports would be incomplete and therefore potentially misleading.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
13A
QC32 Financial reports are prepared for users who have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic activities and
who review and analyse the information diligently. At times, even well-informed and diligent users may need to seek
the aid of an adviser to understand information about complex economic phenomena.
Applying the enhancing qualitative characteristics
QC33 Enhancing qualitative characteristics should be maximised to the extent possible. However, the enhancing qualitative
characteristics, either individually or as a group, cannot make information useful if that information is irrelevant or
not faithfully represented.
QC34 Applying the enhancing qualitative characteristics is an iterative process that does not follow a prescribed order.
Sometimes, one enhancing qualitative characteristic may have to be diminished to maximise another qualitative
characteristic. For example, a temporary reduction in comparability as a result of prospectively applying a new
financial reporting standard may be worthwhile to improve relevance or faithful representation in the longer term.
Appropriate disclosures may partially compensate for non-comparability.
The cost constraint on useful financial reporting
QC35 Cost is a pervasive constraint on the information that can be provided by financial reporting. Reporting financial
information imposes costs, and it is important that those costs are justified by the benefits of reporting that
information. There are several types of costs and benefits to consider.
QC36 Providers of financial information expend most of the effort involved in collecting, processing, verifying and
disseminating financial information, but users ultimately bear those costs in the form of reduced returns. Users of
financial information also incur costs of analysing and interpreting the information provided. If needed information
is not provided, users incur additional costs to obtain that information elsewhere or to estimate it.
QC37 Reporting financial information that is relevant and faithfully represents what it purports to represent helps users to
make decisions with more confidence. This results in more efficient functioning of capital markets and a lower cost
of capital for the economy as a whole. An individual investor, lender or other creditor also receives benefits by
making more informed decisions. However, it is not possible for general purpose financial reports to provide all the
information that every user finds relevant.
QC38 In applying the cost constraint, the Council assesses whether the benefits of reporting particular information are
likely to justify the costs incurred to provide and use that information. When applying the cost constraint in
developing a proposed financial reporting standard, the Council seeks information from providers of financial
information, users, auditors, academics and others about the expected nature and quantity of the benefits and costs
of that standard. In most situations, assessments are based on a combination of quantitative and qualitative
information.
QC39 Because of the inherent subjectivity, different individuals’ assessments of the costs and benefits of reporting
particular items of financial information will vary. Therefore, the Council seeks to consider costs and benefits in
relation to financial reporting generally, and not just in relation to individual reporting entities. That does not mean
that assessments of costs and benefits always justify the same reporting requirements for all entities. Differences
may be appropriate because of different sizes of entities, different ways of raising capital (publicly or privately),
different users’ needs or other factors.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
14A
CHAPTER 4: THE  FRAMEWORK:
THE REMAINING TEXT
paragraphs
UNDERLYING  ASSUMPTION 4.1
Going concern 4.1
THE ELEMENTS OF FINANCIAL STA TEMENTS 4.2–4.36
Financial position  4.4–4.7
Assets 4.8–4.14
Liabilities  4.15–4.19
Equity 4.20–4.23
Performance 4.24–4.28
Income 4.29–4.32
Expenses 4.33–4.35
Capital maintenance adjustments 4.36
RECOGNITION OF THE ELEMENTS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  4.37–4.53
The probability of future economic benefit 4.40
Reliability of measurement  4.41–4.43
Recognition of assets 4.44–4.45
Recognition of liabilities 4.46
Recognition of income 4.47–4.48
Recognition of expenses 4.49–4.53
MEASUREMENT OF THE ELEMENTS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  4.54–4.56
CONCEPTS OF CAPITAL AND CAPITAL MAINTENANCE 4.57–4.65
Concepts of capital 4.57–4.58
Concepts of capital maintenance and the determination of profit 4.59–4.65
Chapter 4: The Framework: the remaining text
The remaining text of the Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements has not been
amended to reflect changes made by LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
15A
The remaining text will also be updated when the Council has considered the elements of financial  statements and their
measurement bases.
Underlying assumption
Going concern
4.1 The financial statements are normally prepared on the assumption that an entity is a going concern and will continue
in operation for the foreseeable future. Hence, it is assumed that the entity has neither the intention nor the need to
liquidate or curtail materially the scale of its operations; if such an intention or need exists, the financial statements
may have to be prepared on a different basis and, if so, the basis used is disclosed.
The elements of financial statements
4.2 Financial statements portray the financial effects of transactions and other events by grouping them into broad
classes according to their economic characteristics. These broad classes are termed the elements of financial
statements. The elements directly related to the measurement of financial position in the balance sheet are assets,
liabilities and equity. The elements directly related to the measurement of performance in the income statement are
income and expenses. The statement of changes in financial position usually reflects income statement elements
and changes in balance sheet elements; accordingly, this Conceptual Framework identifies no elements that are
unique to this statement.
4.3 The presentation of these elements in the balance sheet and the income statement involves a process of sub-
classification. For example, assets and liabilities may be classified by their nature or function in the business of the
entity in order to display information in the manner most useful to users for purposes of making economic decisions.
Financial position
4.4 The elements directly related to the measurement of financial position are assets, liabilities and equity. These are
defined as follows:
(a) An asset is a resource controlled by the entity as a result of past events and from which future economic
benefits are expected to flow to the entity.
(b) A liability is a present obligation of the entity arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected
to result in an outflow from the entity of resources embodying economic benefits.
(c) Equity is the residual interest in the assets of the entity after deducting all its liabilities.
4.5 The definitions of an asset and a liability identify their essential features but do not attempt to specify the criteria
that need to be met before they are recognized in the balance sheet. Thus, the definitions embrace items that are not
recognized as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet because they do not satisfy the criteria for recognition
discussed in paragraphs 4.37–4.53. In particular, the expectation that future economic benefits will flow to or from an
entity must be sufficiently
certain to meet the probability criterion in paragraph 4.38 before an asset or liability is recognised.
4.6 In assessing whether an item meets the definition of an asset, liability or equity, attention needs to be given to its
underlying substance and economic reality and not merely its legal form. Thus, for example, in the case of finance
leases, the substance and economic reality are that the lessee acquires the economic benefits of the use of the
leased asset for the major part of its useful life in return for entering into an obligation to pay for that right an amount
approximating to the fair value of the asset and the related finance charge. Hence, the finance lease gives rise to
items that satisfy the definition of an asset and a liability and are recognised as such in the lessee’s balance sheet.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
16A
4.7 Balance sheets drawn up in accordance with current Sri Lanka Accounting Standards may include items that do not
satisfy the definitions of an asset or liability and are not shown as part of equity. The definitions set out in paragraph
4.4 will, however, underlie future reviews of existing Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and the formulation of further
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.
Assets
4.8 The future economic benefit embodied in an asset is the potential to contribute, directly or indirectly, to the flow of
cash and cash equivalents to the entity. The potential may be a productive one that is part of the operating activities
of the entity. It may also take the form of convertibility into cash or cash equivalents or a capability to reduce cash
outflows, such as when an alternative manufacturing process lowers the costs of production.
4.9 An entity usually employs its assets to produce goods or services capable of satisfying the wants or needs of
customers; because these goods or services can satisfy these wants or needs, customers are prepared to pay for
them and hence contribute to the cash flow of the entity. Cash itself renders a service to the entity because of its
command over other resources.
4.10 The future economic benefits embodied in an asset may flow to the entity in a number of ways. For example, an asset
may be :
(a) used singly or in combination with other assets in the production of goods or services to be sold by the
entity;
(b) exchanged for other assets;
(c) used to settle a liability; or
(d) distributed to the owners of the entity.
4.11 Many assets, for example, property, plant and equipment, have a physical form. However, physical form is not
essential to the existence of an asset; hence patents and copyrights, for example, are assets if future economic
benefits are expected to flow from them to the entity and if they are controlled by the entity.
4.12 Many assets, for example, receivables and property, are associated with legal rights, including the right of ownership.
In determining the existence of an asset, the right of ownership is not essential; thus, for example, property held on
a lease is an asset if the entity controls the benefits which are expected to flow from the property. Although the
capacity of an entity to control benefits is usually the result of legal rights, an item may nonetheless satisfy the
definition of an asset even when there is no legal control. For example, know-how obtained from a development
activity may meet the definition of an asset when, by keeping that know-how secret, an entity controls the benefits
that are expected to flow from it.
4.13 The assets of an entity result from past transactions or other past events. Entities normally obtain assets by
purchasing or producing them, but other transactions or events may generate assets; examples include property
received by an entity from government as part of a programme to encourage economic growth in an area and the
discovery of mineral deposits. Transactions or events expected to occur in the future do not in themselves give rise
to assets; hence, for example, an  intention to purchase inventory does not, of itself, meet the definition of an asset.
4.14 There is a close association between incurring expenditure and generating assets but the two do not necessarily
coincide. Hence, when an entity incurs expenditure, this may provide evidence that future economic benefits were
sought but is not conclusive proof that an item satisfying the definition of an asset has been obtained. Similarly the
absence of a related expenditure does not preclude an item from satisfying the definition of an asset and thus
becoming a candidate for recognition in the balance sheet; for example, items that have been donated to the entity
may satisfy the definition of an asset.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
17A
Liabilities
4.15 An essential characteristic of a liability is that the entity has a present obligation. An obligation is a duty or
responsibility to act or perform in a certain way. Obligations may be legally enforceable as a consequence of a
binding contract or statutory requirement. This is normally the case, for example, with amounts payable for goods
and services received. Obligations also arise, however, from normal business practice, custom and a desire to
maintain good business relations or act in an equitable manner. If, for example, an entity decides as a matter of policy
to rectify faults in its products even when these become apparent after the warranty period has expired, the amounts
that are expected to be expended in respect of goods already sold are liabilities.
4.16 A distinction needs to be drawn between a present obligation and a future commitment. A decision by the management
of an entity to acquire assets in the future does not, of itself, give rise to a present obligation. An obligation normally
arises only when the asset is delivered or the entity enters into an irrevocable agreement to acquire the asset. In the
latter case, the irrevocable nature of the  agreement means that the economic consequences of failing to honour the
obligation, for example, because of the existence of a substantial penalty, leave the entity with little, if any, discretion
to avoid the outflow of resources to another party.
4.17 The settlement of a present obligation usually involves the entity giving up resources embodying economic
benefits in order to satisfy the claim of the other party. Settlement of a present obligation may occur in a number of
ways, for example, by:
(a) payment of cash;
(b) transfer of other assets;
(c) provision of services;
(d) replacement of that obligation with another obligation; or
(e) conversion of the obligation to equity.
An obligation may also be extinguished by other means, such as a creditor waiving or forfeiting its rights.
4.18 Liabilities result from past transactions or other past events. Thus, for example, the acquisition of goods and the use
of services give rise to trade payables (unless paid for in advance or on delivery) and the receipt of a bank loan
results in an obligation to repay the loan. An entity may also recognise future rebates based on annual purchases
by customers as liabilities; in this case, the sale of the goods in the past is the transaction that gives rise to the
liability.
4.19 Some liabilities can be measured only by using a substantial degree of estimation. Some entities describe these
liabilities as provisions. In some countries, such provisions are not regarded as liabilities because the concept of a
liability is defined narrowly so as to include only amounts that can be established without the need to make
estimates. The definition of a liability in paragraph 4.4 follows a broader approach. Thus, when a provision involves
a present obligation and satisfies the rest of the definition, it is a liability even if the amount has to be estimated.
Examples include provisions for payments to be made under existing warranties and provisions to cover pension
obligations.
Equity
4.20 Although equity is defined in paragraph 4.4 as a residual, it may be sub-classified in the balance sheet. For example,
in a corporate entity, funds contributed by shareholders, retained earnings, reserves representing appropriations of
retained earnings and reserves representing capital maintenance adjustments may be shown separately. Such
classifications can be relevant to the decision-making needs of the users of financial statements when they indicate
legal or other restrictions on the ability of the entity to distribute or otherwise apply its equity. They may also reflect
the fact that parties with ownership interests in an entity have differing rights in relation to the receipt of dividends
or the repayment of contributed equity.
2 - PG 001326

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
18A
4.21 The creation of reserves is sometimes required by statute or other law in order to give the entity and its creditors an
added measure of protection from the effects of losses. Other reserves may be established if national tax law grants
exemptions from, or reductions in, taxation liabilities when transfers to such reserves are made. The existence and
size of these legal, statutory and tax reserves is information that can be relevant to the decision-making needs of
users. Transfers to such reserves are appropriations of retained earnings rather than expenses.
4.22 The amount at which equity is shown in the balance sheet is dependent on the measurement of assets and liabilities.
Normally, the aggregate amount of equity only by coincidence corresponds with the aggregate market value of the
shares of the entity or the sum that could be raised by disposing of either the net assets on a piecemeal basis or the
entity as a whole on a going concern basis.
4.23 Commercial, industrial and business activities are often undertaken by means of entities such as sole proprietorships,
partnerships and trusts and various types of government business undertakings. The legal and regulatory framework
for such entities is often different from that applying to corporate entities. For example, there may be few, if any,
restrictions on the distribution to owners or other beneficiaries of amounts included in equity. Nevertheless, the
definition of equity and the other aspects of this Conceptual Framework that deal with equity are appropriate for
such entities.
Performance
4.24 Profit is frequently used as a measure of performance or as the basis for other measures, such as return on
investment or earnings per share. The elements directly related to the measurement of profit are income and
expenses. The recognition and measurement of income and expenses, and hence profit, depends in part on the
concepts of capital and capital maintenance used by the entity in preparing its financial statements. These concepts
are discussed in paragraphs 4.57–4.65.
4.25 The elements of income and expenses are defined as follows :
(a) Income is increases in economic benefits during the accounting period in the form of inflows or
enhancements of assets or decreases of liabilities that result in increases in equity, other than those
relating to contributions from equity participants.
(b) Expenses are decreases in economic benefits during the accounting period in the form of outflows or
depletions of assets or incurrences of liabilities that result in decreases in equity, other than those relating
to distributions to equity participants.
4.26 The definitions of income and expenses identify their essential features but do not attempt to specify the criteria
that would need to be met before they are recognised in the income statement. Criteria for the recognition of income
and expenses are discussed in paragraphs 4.37–4.53.
4.27 Income and expenses may be presented in the income statement in different ways so as to provide information that
is relevant for economic decision-making. For example, it is common practice to distinguish between those items of
income and expenses that arise in the course of the ordinary activities of the entity and those that do not. This
distinction is made on the basis that the source of an item is relevant in evaluating the ability of the entity to
generate cash and cash equivalents in the future; for example, incidental activities such as the disposal of a long-
term investment are unlikely to recur on a regular basis. When distinguishing between items in this way consideration
needs to be given to the nature of the entity and its operations. Items that arise from the ordinary activities of one
entity may be unusual in respect of another.
4.28 Distinguishing between items of income and expense and combining them in different ways also permits several
measures of entity performance to be displayed. These have differing degrees of inclusiveness. For example, the
income statement could display gross margin, profit or loss from ordinary activities before taxation, profit or loss
from ordinary activities after taxation, and profit or loss.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
19A
Income
4.29 The definition of income encompasses both revenue and gains. Revenue arises in the course of the ordinary
activities of an entity and is referred to by a variety of different names including sales, fees, interest, dividends,
royalties and rent.
4.30 Gains represent other items that meet the definition of income and may, or may not, arise in the course of the ordinary
activities of an entity. Gains represent increases in economic benefits and as such are no different in nature from
revenue. Hence, they are not regarded as constituting a separate element in this Conceptual Framework.
4.31 Gains include, for example, those arising on the disposal of non-current assets. The definition of income also
includes unrealised gains; for example, those arising on the revaluation of marketable securities and those resulting
from increases in the carrying amount of long-term assets. When gains are recognized in the income statement, they
are usually displayed separately because knowledge of them is useful for the purpose of making economic decisions.
Gains are often reported net of related expenses.
4.32 V arious kinds of assets may be received or enhanced by income; examples include cash, receivables and goods and
services received in exchange for goods and services supplied. Income may also result from the settlement of
liabilities. For example, an entity may provide goods and services to a lender in settlement of an obligation to repay
an outstanding loan.
Expenses
4.33 The definition of expenses encompasses losses as well as those expenses that arise in the course of the ordinary
activities of the entity. Expenses that arise in the course of the ordinary activities of the entity include, for example,
cost of sales, wages and depreciation. They usually take the form of an outflow or depletion of assets such as cash
and cash equivalents, inventory, property, plant and equipment.
4.34 Losses represent other items that meet the definition of expenses and may, or may not, arise in the course of the
ordinary activities of the entity. Losses represent decreases in economic benefits and as such they are no different
in nature from other expenses. Hence, they are not regarded as a separate element in this Conceptual Framework.
4.35 Losses include, for example, those resulting from disasters such as fire and flood, as well as those arising on the
disposal of non-current assets. The definition of expenses also includes unrealised losses, for example, those
arising from the effects of increases in the rate of exchange for a foreign currency in respect of the borrowings of an
entity in that currency. When losses are recognised in the income statement, they are usually displayed separately
because knowledge of them is useful for the purpose of making economic decisions. Losses are often reported net
of related income.
Capital maintenance adjustments
4.36 The revaluation or restatement of assets and liabilities gives rise to increases or decreases in equity. While these
increases or decreases meet the definition of income and expenses, they are not included in the income statement
under certain concepts of capital maintenance. Instead these items are included in equity as capital maintenance
adjustments or revaluation reserves. These concepts of capital maintenance are discussed in paragraphs 4.57–4.65
of this Conceptual Framework .
Recognition of the elements of financial statements
4.37 Recognition is the process of incorporating in the balance sheet or income statement an item that meets the
definition of an element and satisfies the criteria for recognition set out in paragraph 4.38. It involves the depiction
of the item in words and by a monetary amount and the inclusion of that amount in the balance sheet or income
statement totals. Items that satisfy the recognition criteria should be recognised in the balance sheet or income
statement. The failure to recognise such items is not rectified by disclosure of the accounting policies used nor by
notes or explanatory material.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
20A
4.38 An item that meets the definition of an element should be recognised if :
(a) it is probable that any future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to or from the entity; and
(b) the item has a cost or value that can be measured with reliability. *
4.39 In assessing whether an item meets these criteria and therefore qualifies for recognition in the financial statements,
regard needs to be given to the materiality considerations discussed in Chapter 3 Qualitative characteristics of
useful financial information. The interrelationship between the elements means that an item that meets the definition
and recognition criteria for a particular element, for example, an asset, automatically requires the recognition of
another element, for example, income or a liability.
The probability of future economic benefit
4.40 The concept of probability is used in the recognition criteria to refer to the degree of uncertainty that the future
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to or from the entity. The concept is in keeping with the
uncertainty that characterises the environment in which an entity operates. Assessments of the degree of uncertainty
attaching to the flow of future economic benefits are made on the basis of the evidence available when the financial
statements are prepared. For example, when it is probable that a receivable owed to an entity will be paid, it is then
justifiable, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, to recognize the receivable as an asset. For a large
population of receivables, however, some degree of non-payment is normally considered probable; hence an
expense representing the expected reduction in economic benefits is recognised.
Reliability of measurement
4.41 The second criterion for the recognition of an item is that it possesses a cost or value that can be measured with
reliability. In many cases, cost or value must be estimated; the use of reasonable estimates is an essential part of the
preparation of financial statements and does not undermine their reliability. When, however, a reasonable estimate
cannot be made the item is not recognised in the balance sheet or income statement. For example, the expected
proceeds from a lawsuit may meet the definitions of both an asset and income as well as the probability criterion for
recognition; however, if it is not possible for the claim to be measured reliably, it should not be recognised as an
asset or as income; the existence of the claim, however, would be disclosed in the notes, explanatory material or
supplementary schedules.
4.42 An item that, at a particular point in time, fails to meet the recognition criteria in paragraph 4.38 may qualify for
recognition at a later date as a result of subsequent circumstances or events.
4.43 An item that possesses the essential characteristics of an element but fails to meet the criteria for recognition may
nonetheless warrant disclosure in the notes, explanatory material or in supplementary schedules. This is appropriate
when knowledge of the item is considered to be relevant to the evaluation of the financial position, performance and
changes in financial position of an entity by the users of financial statements.
Recognition of assets
4.44 An asset is recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the
entity and the asset has a cost or value that can be measured reliably.
4.45 An asset is not recognised in the balance sheet when expenditure has been incurred for which it is considered
improbable that economic benefits will flow to the entity beyond the current accounting period. Instead such a
transaction results in the recognition of an expense in the income statement. This treatment does not imply either
that the intention of management in incurring expenditure was other than to generate future economic benefits for
the entity or that management was misguided. The only implication is that the degree of certainty that economic
* Information is reliable when it is complete, neutral and free from error.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
21A
benefits will flow to the entity beyond the current accounting period is insufficient to warrant the recognition of an
asset.
Recognition of liabilities
4.46 A liability is recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic
benefits will result from the settlement of a present obligation and the amount at which the settlement will take place
can be measured reliably. In practice, obligations under contracts that are equally proportionately unperformed (for
example, liabilities for inventory ordered but not yet received) are generally not recognised as liabilities in the
financial statements. However, such obligations may meet the definition of liabilities and, provided the recognition
criteria are met in the particular circumstances, may qualify for recognition. In such circumstances, recognition of
liabilities entails recognition of related assets or expenses.
Recognition of income
4.47 Income is recognised in the income statement when an increase in future economic benefits related to an increase in
an asset or a decrease of a liability has arisen that can be measured reliably. This means, in effect, that recognition
of income occurs simultaneously with the recognition of increases in assets or decreases in liabilities (for example,
the net increase in assets arising on a sale of goods or services or the decrease in liabilities arising from the waiver
of a debt payable).
4.48 The procedures normally adopted in practice for recognising income, for example, the requirement that revenue
should be earned, are applications of the recognition criteria in this Conceptual Framework. Such procedures are
generally directed at restricting the recognition as income to those items that can be measured reliably and have a
sufficient degree of certainty.
Recognition of expenses
4.49 Expenses are recognised in the income statement when a decrease in future economic benefits related to a decrease
in an asset or an increase of a liability has arisen that can be measured reliably. This means, in effect, that recognition
of expenses occurs simultaneously with the recognition of an increase in liabilities or a decrease in assets (for
example, the accrual of employee entitlements or the depreciation of equipment).
4.50 Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a direct association between the costs incurred and
the earning of specific items of income. This process, commonly referred to as the matching of costs with revenues,
involves the simultaneous or combined recognition of revenues and expenses that result directly and jointly from
the same transactions or other events; for example, the various components of expense making up the cost of goods
sold are recognised at the same time as the income derived from the sale of the goods. However, the application of
the matching concept under this Conceptual Framework does not allow the recognition of items in the balance
sheet which do not meet the definition of assets or liabilities.
4.51 When economic benefits are expected to arise over several accounting periods and the association with income can
only be broadly or indirectly determined, expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of systematic
and rational allocation procedures. This is often necessary in recognising the expenses associated with the using
up of assets such as property, plant, equipment, goodwill, patents and trademarks; in such cases the expense is
referred to as depreciation or amortisation. These allocation procedures are intended to recognise expenses in the
accounting periods in which the economic benefits associated with these items are consumed or expire.
4.52 An expense is recognised immediately in the income statement when an expenditure produces no future economic
benefits or when, and to the extent that, future economic benefits do not qualify, or cease to qualify, for recognition
in the balance sheet as an asset.
4.53 An expense is also recognised in the income statement in those cases when a liability is incurred without the
recognition of an asset, as when a liability under a product warranty arises.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
22A
Measurement of the elements of financial statements
4.54 Measurement is the process of determining the monetary amounts at which the elements of the financial statements
are to be recognised and carried in the balance sheet and income statement. This involves the selection of the
particular basis of measurement.
4.55 A number of different measurement bases are employed to different degrees and in varying combinations in financial
statements. They include the following :
(a) Historical cost.—Assets are recorded at the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of
the consideration given to acquire them at the time of their acquisition. Liabilities are recorded at the
amount of proceeds received in exchange for the obligation, or in some circumstances (for example, income
taxes), at the amounts of cash or cash equivalents expected to be paid to satisfy the liability in the normal
course of business.
(b) Current cost.—Assets are carried at the amount of cash or cash equivalents that would have to be paid if
the same or an equivalent asset was acquired currently. Liabilities are carried at the undiscounted amount
of cash or cash equivalents that would be required to settle the obligation currently.
(c) Realisable (settlement) value .—Assets are carried at the amount of cash or cash equivalents that could
currently be obtained by selling the asset in an orderly disposal. Liabilities are carried at their settlement
values; that is, the undiscounted amounts of cash or cash equivalents expected to be paid to satisfy the
liabilities in the normal course of business.
(d) Present value.— Assets are carried at the present discounted value of the future net cash inflows that the
item is expected to generate in the normal course of business. Liabilities are carried at the present discounted
value of the future net cash outflows that are expected to be required to settle the liabilities in the normal
course of business.
4.56 The measurement basis most commonly adopted by entities in preparing their financial statements is historical cost.
This is usually combined with other measurement bases. For example, inventories are usually carried at the lower of
cost and net realisable value, marketable securities may be carried at market value and pension liabilities are carried
at their present value. Furthermore, some entities use the current cost basis as a response to the inability of the
historical cost accounting model to deal with the effects of changing prices of non-monetary assets.
Concepts of capital and capital maintenance
Concepts of capital
4.57 A financial concept of capital is adopted by most entities in preparing their financial statements. Under a financial
concept of capital, such as invested money or invested purchasing power, capital is synonymous with the net
assets or equity of the entity. Under a physical concept of capital, such as operating capability, capital is regarded
as the productive capacity of the entity based on, for example, units of output per day.
4.58 The selection of the appropriate concept of capital by an entity should be based on the needs of the users of its
financial statements. Thus, a financial concept of capital should be adopted if the users of financial statements are
primarily concerned with the maintenance of nominal invested capital or the purchasing power of invested capital.
If, however, the main concern of users is with the operating capability of the entity, a physical concept of capital
should be used. The concept chosen indicates the goal to be attained in determining profit, even though there may
be some measurement difficulties in making the concept operational.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
23A
Concepts of capital maintenance and the determination of profit
4.59 The concepts of capital in paragraph 4.57 give rise to the following concepts of capital maintenance:
(a) Financial capital maintenance .—Under this concept a profit is earned only if the financial (or money)
amount of the net assets at the end of the period exceeds the financial (or money) amount of net assets at
the beginning of the period, after excluding any distributions to, and contributions from, owners during the
period. Financial capital maintenance can be measured in either nominal monetary units or units of constant
purchasing power.
(b) Physical Capital Maintenance .—Under this concept a profit is earned only if the physical productive
capacity (or operating capability) of the entity (or the resources or funds needed to achieve that capacity)
at the end of the period exceeds the physical productive capacity at the beginning of the period, after
excluding any distributions to, and contributions from, owners during the period.
4.60 The concept of capital maintenance is concerned with how an entity defines the capital that it seeks to maintain. It
provides the linkage between the concepts of capital and the concepts of profit because it provides the point of
reference by which profit is measured; it is a prerequisite for distinguishing between an entity’s return on capital and
its return of capital; only inflows of assets in excess of amounts needed to maintain capital may be regarded as profit
and therefore, as a return on capital. Hence, profit is the residual amount that remains after expenses (including
capital maintenance adjustments, where appropriate) have been deducted from income. If expenses exceed income
the residual amount is a loss.
4.61 The physical capital maintenance concept requires the adoption of the current cost basis of measurement. The
financial capital maintenance concept, however, does not require the use of a particular basis of measurement.
Selection of the basis under this concept is dependent on the type of financial capital that the entity is seeking to
maintain.
4.62 The principal difference between the two concepts of capital maintenance is the treatment of the effects of changes
in the prices of assets and liabilities of the entity. In general terms, an entity has maintained its capital if it has as
much capital at the end of the period as it had at the beginning of the period. Any amount over and above that
required to maintain the capital at the beginning of the period is profit.
4.63 Under the concept of financial capital maintenance where capital is defined in terms of nominal monetary units,
profit represents the increase in nominal money capital over the period. Thus, increases in the prices of assets held
over the period, conventionally referred to as holding gains, are, conceptually, profits. They may not be recognised
as such, however, until the assets are disposed of in an exchange transaction. When the concept of financial capital
maintenance is defined in terms of constant purchasing power units, profit represents the increase in invested
purchasing power over the period. Thus, only that part of the increase in the prices of assets that exceeds the
increase in the general level of prices is regarded as profit. The rest of the increase is treated as a capital maintenance
adjustment and, hence, as part of equity.
4.64 Under the concept of physical capital maintenance when capital is defined in terms of the physical productive
capacity, profit represents the increase in that capital over the period. All price changes affecting the assets and
liabilities of the entity are viewed as changes in the measurement of the physical productive capacity of the entity;
hence, they are treated as capital maintenance adjustments that are part of equity and not as profit.
4.65 The selection of the measurement bases and concept of capital maintenance will determine the accounting model
used in the preparation of the financial statements. Different accounting models exhibit different degrees of relevance
and reliability and, as in other areas, management must seek a balance between relevance and reliability. This
Conceptual Framework is applicable to a range of accounting models and provides guidance on preparing and
presenting the financial statements constructed under the chosen model. At the present time, it is not the intention
of the Council to prescribe a particular model other than in exceptional circumstances, such as for those entities
reporting in the currency of a hyperinflationary economy. This intention will, however, be reviewed in the light of
world developments.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
24A
SLFRS 1-First time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 1 Para 12(a) Para 12 (a)
(a)  paragraphs 14–17 and Appendix B prohibit retrospective
application of some aspects of other SLFRSs.
Para 27 Para 27
LKAS 8 does not apply to the changes in accounting policies an
entity makes when it adopts SLFRSs or to changes in those policies
until after it presents its first SLFRS financial statements. Therefore,
LKAS 8’s requirements about changes in accounting policies do not
apply in an entity’s first SLFRS financial statements.
Not included Para 27A
If during the period covered by its first SLFRS financial statements
an entity changes its accounting policies or its use of the exemptions
contained in this SLFRS, it shall explain the changes between its first
SLFRS interim financial report and its first SLFRS financial statements,
in accordance with paragraph 23, and it shall update the
reconciliations required by paragraph 24(a) and (b).
Para 29 An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial
asset as a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss
in accordance with paragraph D19A. The entity shall disclose the
fair value of financial assets so designated at the date of designation
and their classification and carrying amount in the previous financial
statements.
Para 29A  An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial
liability as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss in
accordance with paragraph D19. The entity shall disclose the fair
value of financial liabilities so designated at the date of designation
and their classification and carrying amount in the previous financial
statements.
Not included Use of deemed cost for oil and gas assets
Para 31A
If an entity uses the exemption in paragraph D8A(b) for oil and gas
assets, it shall disclose that fact and the basis on which carrying
amounts determined under previous GAAP were allocated.
Use of deemed cost for operations subject to rate regulation
Para 31B
If an entity uses the exemption in paragraph D8B for operations
subject to rate regulation, it shall disclose that fact and the basis on

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
25A
which carrying amounts were determined under previous GAAP .Use
of deemed cost after severe hyperinflation.
Para 31C
If an entity elects to measure assets and liabilities at fair value and to
use that fair value as the deemed cost in its opening SLFRS statement
of financial position because of severe hyperinflation (see paragraphs
D26–D30), the entity’s first SLFRS financial statements shall disclose
an explanation of how, and why, the entity had, and then ceased to
have, a functional currency that has both of the following
characteristics :
(a) a reliable general price index is not available to all entities
with transactions and balances in the currency;
(b) exchangeability between the currency and a relatively stable
foreign currency does not exist.
Not included Para 32
(c) If an entity changes its accounting policies or its use of the
exemptions contained in this SLFRS, it shall explain the
changes in each such interim financial report in accordance
with paragraph 23 and update the reconciliations required
by (a) and (b).
Appendix B
Para B1 Para B1
An entity shall apply the following exceptions :
(a) derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
(paragraphs B2 and B3);
(b) hedge accounting (paragraphs B4–B6);
(c) non-controlling interests (paragraph B7);
(d) classification and measurement of financial assets
(paragraph B8); and
(e) embedded derivatives (paragraph B9).
Para B2 Para B2
Except as permitted by paragraph B3, a first-time adopter shall apply
the derecognition requirements in SLFRS 9 prospectively for
transactions occurring on or after the date of transition to SLFRSs.
For example, if a first-time adopter derecognised non-derivative
financial assets or non-derivative financial liabilities in accordance
with its previous GAAP as a result of a transaction that occurred
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
26A
before the date of transition to SLFRSs, it shall not recognise those
assets and liabilities in accordance with SLFRSs (unless they qualify
for recognition as a result of a later transaction or event).
Para B3 Para B3
Despite paragraph B2, an entity may apply the derecognition
requirements in SLFRS 9 retrospectively from a date of the entity’s
choosing, provided that the information needed to apply SLFRS 9 to
financial assets and financial liabilities derecognised as a result of
past transactions was obtained at the time of initially accounting for
those transactions.
Para B4 Para B4
As required by SLFRS 9, at the date of transition to SLFRSs, an
entity shall:
(a) measure all derivatives at fair value; and
(b) eliminate all deferred losses and gains arising on derivatives
that were reported in accordance with previous GAAP as if they
were assets or liabilities.
Para B5 Para B5
An entity shall not reflect in its opening SLFRS statement of financial
position a hedging relationship of a type that does not qualify for
hedge accounting in accordance with LKAS 39 (for example, many
hedging relationships where the hedging instrument is a cash
instrument or written option; or where the hedged item is a net
position). However, if an entity designated a net position as a hedged
item in accordance with previous GAAP, it may designate an
individual item within that net position as a hedged item in accordance
with SLFRSs, provided that it does so no later than the date of
transition to SLFRSs.
Not included Classification and measurement of financial assets
Para B8
An entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the conditions
in paragraph 4.1.2 of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and
circumstances that exist at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
Embedded derivatives
Para B9
A first-time adopter shall assess whether an embedded derivative is
required to be separated from the host contract and accounted for as
a derivative on the basis of  the conditions that existed at the later of
the date it first became a party to the contract and the date a
reassessment is required by paragraph B4.3.11 of SLFRS 9.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
27A
Appendix D Para D1
Para D1 An entity may elect to use one or more of the following exemptions:
(a) share-based payment transactions (paragraphs D2 and D3);
(b) insurance contracts (paragraph D4);
(c) deemed cost (paragraphs D5–D8B);
(d) leases (paragraphs D9 and D9A);
(e) employee benefits (paragraphs D10 and D11);
(f) cumulative translation differences (paragraphs D12 and D13);
(g) investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and
associates(paragraphs D14 and D15);
(h) assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures(paragraphs D16 and D17);
(i) compound financial instruments (paragraph D18);
(j) designation of previously recognised financial instruments
(paragraphs D19–D19D);
(k) fair value measurement of financial assets or financial liabilities
at initial recognition (paragraph D20);
(l) decommissioning liabilities included in the cost of property,
plant and equipment (paragraphs D21 and D21A);
(m) financial assets or intangible assets accounted for in
accordance with IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
(paragraph D22);
(n) borrowing costs (paragraph D23);
(o) transfers of assets from customers (paragraph D24);
(p) extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments
(paragraph D25); and
(q) severe hyperinflation (paragraphs D26–D30).
An entity shall not apply these exemptions by analogy to other
items.
Not included P ara D2
A first-time adopter is encouraged, but not required, to apply SLFRS
2 Share-based Payment to equity instruments that were granted on
or before 1st January, 2011.
A first-time adopter is also encouraged, but not required, to apply
SLFRS 2 to equity instruments that were granted after 1st January,
2011 and vested before the later of
(a) the date of transition to SLFRSs; and
(b) 1st January, 2012.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
28A
However, if a first-time adopter elects to apply SLFRS 2 to such
equity instruments, it may do so only if the entity has disclosed
publicly the fair value of those equity instruments, determined at the
measurement date, as defined in SLFRS 2. For all grants of equity
instruments to which SLFRS 2 has not been applied (eg. equity
instruments granted on or before 1 January, 2011), a first-time adopter
shall nevertheless disclose the information required by paragraphs
44 and 45 of SLFRS 2. If a first-time adopter modifies the terms or
conditions of a grant of equity instruments to which SLFRS 2 has not
been applied, the entity is not required to apply paragraphs 26–29 of
SLFRS 2 if the modification occurred before the date of transition to
SLFRSs.
Not included Para D3
A  first-time adopter is encouraged, but not required, to apply SLFRS
2 to liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions that
were settled before the date of transition to SLFRSs. A first-time
adopter is also encouraged, but not required, to apply SLFRS 2 to
liabilities that were settled before 1st January, 2012.
For liabilities to which IFRS 2 is applied, a first-time adopter is not
required to restate comparative information to the extent that the
information relates to a period or date that is earlier than 1st January,
2011.
Fair value or
revaluation as Deemed cost
deemed cost
Para D8 Para D8
A first-time adopter may have established a deemed cost in
accordance with previous GAAP for some or all of its assets and
liabilities by measuring them at their fair value at one particular date
because of an event such as a privatization or initial public offering.
(a) If the measurement date is at or before the date of transition to
SLFRSs, the entity may use such event-driven fair value
measurements as deemed cost for SLFRSs at the date of that
measurement.
(b) If the measurement date is after the date of transition to SLFRSs,
but during the period covered by the first SLFRS financial
statements, the event-driven fair value measurements may be used
as deemed cost when the event occurs. An entity shall recognise
the resulting adjustments directly in retained earnings (or if
appropriate, another category of equity) at the measurement date.
At the date of transition to SLFRSs, the entity shall either establish
the deemed cost by applying the criteria in paragraphs D5–D7 or
measure assets and liabilities in accordance with the other
requirements in this SLFRS.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
29A
Para D8A
Under some national accounting requirements exploration and
development costs for oil and gas properties in the development
or production phases are accounted for in cost centres that include
all properties in a large geographical area. A first-time adopter
using such accounting under previous GAAP may elect to measure
oil and gas assets at the date of transition to SLFRSs on the
following basis :
(a) exploration and evaluation assets at the amount determined
under the entity’s previous GAAP; and
(b) assets in the development or production phases at the amount
determined for the cost centre under the entity’s previous
GAAP. The entity shall allocate this amount to the cost centre’s
underlying assets pro rata using reserve volumes or reserve
values as of that date.
The entity shall test exploration and evaluation assets and assets
in the development and production phases for impairment at the
date of transition to SLFRSs in accordance with SLFRS 6
Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources  or LKAS
36 respectively and, if necessary, reduce the amount determined
in accordance with (a) or (b) above. For the purposes of this
paragraph, oil and gas assets comprise only those assets used in
the exploration, evaluation, development or production of oil and
gas.
Para D8B
Some entities hold items of property, plant and equipment or
intangible assets that are used, or were previously used, in
operations subject to rate regulation. The carrying amount of
such items might include amounts that were determined under
previous GAAP but do not qualify for capitalisation in accordance
with SLFRSs. If this is the case, a first-time adopter may elect to
use the previous GAAP carrying amount of such an item at the
date of transition to SLFRSs as deemed cost. If an entity applies
this exemption to an item, it need not apply it to all items.At the
date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity shall test for impairment in
accordance with LKAS 36 each item for which this exemption is
used. For the purposes of this paragraph, operations are subject
to rate regulation if they provide goods or services to customers
at prices (ie. rates) established by an authorised body empowered
to establish rates that bind the customers and that are designed
to recover the specific costs the entity incurs in providing the
regulated goods or services and to earn a specified return. The
specified return could be a minimum or range and need not be a
fixed or guaranteed return.
Not included Para D9A
If a first-time adopter made the same determination of whether an
arrangement contained a lease in accordance with previous GAAP
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
30A
as that required by IFRIC 4 but at a date other than that required
by IFRIC 4, the first-time adopter need not reassess that
determination when it adopts SLFRSs. For an entity to have made
the same determination of whether the arrangement contained a
lease in accordance with previous GAAP, that determination would
have to have given the same outcome as that resulting from
applying LKAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4.
Para D14 Para D14
When an entity prepares separate financial statements, LKAS
27 requires it to account for its investments in subsidiaries,
jointly controlled entities and associates either :
(a) at cost; or
(b) in accordance with SLFRS 9
Para D15 Para D15
If a first-time adopter measures such an investment at cost in
accordance with IAS 27, it shall measure that investment at
one of the following amounts in its separate opening IFRS
statement of financial position :
(a) cost determined in accordance with IAS 27; or
(b) deemed cost. The deemed cost of such an investment
shall be its:
(i) fair value (determined in accordance with IFRS 9)
at the entity’s date of transition to IFRSs in its
separate financial statements; or
(ii) previous GAAP carrying amount at that date.
A first-time adopter may choose either (i) or (ii)
above to measure its investment in each subsidiary,
jointly controlled entity or associate that it elects
to measure using a deemed cost.
Para D19 Para D19
SLFRS 9 permits a financial liability (provided it meets certain criteria)
to be designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or
loss. Despite this requirement an entity is permitted to designate, at
the date of transition to SLFRSs, any financial liability as at fair value
through profit or loss provided the liability meets the criteria in
paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 at that date.
Para D19A
An entity may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value
through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
31A
on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
transition to SLFRSs.
Para D 19B Para D19B
An entity may designate an investment in an equity instrument as at
fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with
paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances
that exist at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
Para D 19C Para D19C
If it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to apply
retrospectively the effective interest method or the impairment
requirements in paragraphs 58–65 and AG84–AG93 of LKAS 39, the
fair value of the financial asset at the date of transition to SLFRSs
shall be the new amortised cost of that financial asset at the date of
transition to SLFRSs.
Para D19D
An entity shall determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 of
SLFRS 9 would create an accounting mismatch in profit or loss on
the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of
transition to SLFRSs.
Not included Para D20
Despite the requirements of paragraphs 7 and 9, an entity may apply
the requirements in the last sentence of paragraph B5.4.8 and in
paragraph B5.4.9 of SLFRS 9 prospectively to transactions entered
into on or after the date of transition to SLFRSs.
Not included Para D21A
An entity that uses the exemption in paragraph D8A(b) (for oil and
gas assets in the development or production phases accounted for
in cost centres that include all properties in a large geographical area
under previous GAAP) shall, instead of applying paragraph D21 or
IFRIC 1:
(a) measure decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities as
at the date of transition to SLFRSs in accordance with LKAS
37; and
(b) recognise directly in retained earnings any difference between
that amount and the carrying amount of those liabilities at the
date of transition to SLFRSs determined under the entity’s
previous GAAP
Not included Para D23
A first-time adopter may apply the transitional provisions set out in
paragraphs 27 and 28 of LKAS 23. In those paragraphs references to
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
32A
the effective date shall be interpreted as 1st January, 2012 or the date
of transition to SLFRSs, whichever is later.
Not included Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments
Para D25
A first-time adopter may apply the transitional provisions in IFRIC 19
Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
Not included Severe hyperinflation
Para D26
If an entity has a functional currency that was, or is, the currency of
a hyperinflationary economy, it shall determine whether it was subject
to severe hyperinflation before the date of transition to SLFRSs.
This applies to entities that are adopting SLFRSs for the first time, as
well as entities that have previously applied SLFRSs.
Para D27
The currency of a hyperinflationary economy is subject to severe
hyperinflation if it has both of the following characteristics :
(a) a reliable general price index is not available to all entities with
transactions and balances in the currency.
(b) exchangeability between the currency and a relatively stable
foreign currency does not exist.
Para D28
The functional currency of an entity ceases to be subject to severe
hyperinflation on the functional currency normalisation date. That is
the date when the functional currency no longer has either, or both,
of the characteristics in paragraph D27, or when there is a change in
the entity’s functional currency to a currency that is not subject to
severe hyperinflation.
Para D29
When an entity’s date of transition to SLFRSs is on, or after, the
functional currency normalisation date, the entity may elect to
measure all assets and liabilities held before the functional currency
normalisation date at fair value on the date of transition to SLFRSs.
The entity may use that fair value as the deemed cost of those assets
and liabilities in the opening SLFRS statement of financial position.
Para D30
When the functional currency normalisation date falls within a 12-
month comparative period, the comparative period may be less than
12 months, provided that a complete set of financial statements (as
required by paragraph 10 of LKAS 1) is provided for that shorter
period.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
33A
Not included Appendix E
Short-term exemptions from IFRSs
This appendix is an integral part of the IFRS.
Exemption from the requirement to restate comparative
information for IFRS 9
E 1 In its first IFRS financial statements, an entity that (a) adopts
IFRSs for annual periods beginning before 1 January 2015 and
(b) applies IFRS 9 shall present at least one year of comparative
information. However, this comparative information need not
comply with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures or IFRS
9, to the extent that the disclosures required by IFRS 7 relate to
items within the scope of IFRS 9. For such entities, references
to the ‘date of transition to IFRSs’ shall mean, in the case of
IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 only, the beginning of the first IFRS reporting
period.
E 2 An entity that chooses to present comparative information that
does not comply with IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 in its first year of
transition shall :
(a) apply the recognition and measurement requirements of
its previous GAAP in place of the requirements of IFRS 9
to comparative information about items within the scope
of IFRS 9.
(b) disclose this fact together with the basis used to prepare
this information.
(c) treat any adjustment between the statement of financial
position at the comparative period’s reporting date (ie
the statement of financial position that includes
comparative information under previous GAAP) and the
statement of financial position at the start of the first
IFRS reporting period   (ie the first period that includes
information that complies with IFRS 7 and IFRS 9) as
arising from a change in accounting policy and give the
disclosures required by paragraph 28(a)–(e) and (f)(i) of
IAS 8. Paragraph 28(f)(i) applies only to amounts
presented in the statement of financial position at the
comparative period’s reporting date.
(d) apply paragraph 17(c) of IAS 1 to provide additional
disclosures when compliance with the specific
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position
and financial performance.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
3 - PG 001326

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
34A
SLFRS 2 – Share Based Payments
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 02 Para 02 Para 02
An entity shall apply this SLFRS in accounting for all share-based
payment transactions, whether or not the entity can identify
specifically some or all of the goods or services received, including :
(a) equity-settled share-based payment transactions ,
(b) cash-settled share-based payment transactions , and
(c) transactions in which the entity receives or acquires goods or
services and the terms of the arrangement provide either the
entity or the supplier of those goods or services with a choice
of whether the entity settles the transaction in cash (or other
assets) or by issuing equity instruments,
except as noted in paragraphs 3A–6. In the absence of specifically
identifiable goods or services, other circumstances may indicate that
goods or services have been (or will be) received, in which case this
SLFRS applies.
Para 03 "Deleted"
New Para has been added as follows.
Para 3A
A share-based payment transaction may be settled by another group
entity (or a shareholder of any group entity) on behalf of the entity
receiving or acquiring the goods or services. Paragraph 2 also applies
to an entity that
(a) receives goods or services when another entity in the same
group (or a shareholder of any group entity) has the obligation
to settle the share-based payment transaction, or
(b) has an obligation to settle a share-based payment transaction
when another entity in the same group receives the goods or
services unless the transaction is clearly for a purpose other
than payment for goods or services supplied to the entity
receiving them.
Para 05 Para 05
As noted in paragraph 2, this SLFRS applies to share-based payment
transactions in which an entity acquires or receives goods or services.
Goods include inventories, consumables, property, plant and
equipment, intangible assets and other non-financial assets. However,
an entity shall not apply this SLFRS to transactions in which the
entity acquires goods as part of the net assets acquired in a business
combination as defined by SLFRS 3 Business Combinations (as
revised in 2008), in a combination of entities or businesses under
common control as described in paragraphs B1–B4 of SLFRS 3, or

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
35A
the contribution of a business on the formation of a joint venture as
defined by LKAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures . Hence, equity
instruments issued in a business combination in exchange for control
of the acquiree are not within the scope of this SLFRS. However,
equity instruments granted to employees of the acquiree in their
capacity as employees (eg in return for continued service) are within
the scope of this SLFRS. Similarly, the cancellation, replacement or
other modification of  share-based payment arrangements because
of a business combination or other equity restructuring shall be
accounted for in accordance with this SLFRS. SLFRS 3 provides
guidance on determining whether equity instruments issued in a
business combination are part of the consideration transferred in
exchange for control of the acquire (and therefore within the scope of
SLFRS 3) or are in return for continued service to be recognised in
the post-combination period (and therefore within the scope of this
SLFRS).
Para 13 New Para has been added as follows.
Para 13A
In particular, if the identifiable consideration received (if any) by the
entity appears to be less than the fair value of the equity instruments
granted or liability incurred, typically this situation indicates that
other consideration (ie unidentifiable goods or services) has been
(or will be) received by the entity. The entity shall measure the
identifiable goods or services received in accordance with this SLFRS.
The entity shall measure the unidentifiable goods or services received
(or to be received) as the difference between the fair value of the
share-based payment and the fair value of any identifiable goods or
services received (or to be received). The entity shall measure the
unidentifiable goods or services received at the grant date. However,
for cash-settled transactions, the liability shall be remeasured at the
end of each reporting period until it is settled in accordance with
paragraphs 30–33.
Para 43 New Para has been added as follows.
Share-based payment transactions among group entities (2009
amendments)
Para 43A
For share-based payment transactions among group entities, in its
separate or individual financial statements, the entity receiving the
goods or services shall measure the goods or services received as
either an equity-settled or a cash-settled share-based payment
transaction by assessing :
(a) the nature of the awards granted, and
(b)  its own rights and obligations.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
36A
The amount recognised by the entity receiving the goods or services
may differ from the amount recognised by the consolidated group or
by another group entity settling the share-based payment
transaction.
Para 43B
The entity receiving the goods or services shall measure the goods
or services received as an equity-settled share-based payment
transaction when:
(a) the awards granted are its own equity      instruments, or
(b) the entity has no obligation to settle the share-based payment
transaction.
The  entity shall subsequently remeasure such an equity-settled
share-based payment transaction only for changes in non-market
vesting conditions in accordance with paragraphs 19–21. In all other
circumstances, the entity receiving the goods or services shall
measure the goods or services received as a cash-settled share-
based payment transaction.
Para 43C
The entity settling a share-based payment transaction when another
entity in the group receives the goods or services shall recognise the
transaction as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction
only if it is settled in the entity’s own equity instruments. Otherwise,
the transaction shall be recognised as a cash-settled share-based
payment transaction.
Para 43D
Some group transactions involve repayment arrangements that require
one group entity to pay another group entity for the provision of the
share-based payments to the suppliers of goods or services. In such
cases, the entity that receives the goods or services shall account
for the share-based payment transaction in accordance with
paragraph 43B regardless of intragroup repayment arrangements.
Appendix B New Para has been added as follows.
Share-based payment transactions among group entities (2009
amendments)
B45 Paragraphs 43A–43C address the accounting for share-based
payment transactions among group entities in each entity’s separate
or individual financial statements. Paragraphs B46–B61 discuss how
to apply the requirements in paragraphs 43A–43C. As noted in
paragraph 43D, share-based payment transactions among group
entities may take place for a variety of reasons depending on facts
and circumstances. Therefore, this discussion is not exhaustive and
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
37A
assumes that when the entity receiving the goods or services has no
obligation to settle the transaction, the transaction is a parent’s equity
contribution to the subsidiary, regardless of any intragroup repayment
arrangements.
Para B46
Although the discussion below focuses on transactions with
employees, it also applies to similar share-based payment transactions
with suppliers of goods or services other than employees. An
arrangement between a parent and its subsidiary may require the
subsidiary to pay the parent for the provision of the equity
instruments to the employees. The discussion below does not address
how to account for such an intragroup payment arrangement.
Para B47
Four issues are commonly encountered in share-based payment
transactions among group entities. For convenience, the examples
below discuss the issues in terms of a parent and its subsidiary.
Share-based payment arrangements involving an entity’s own equity
instruments
Para B48
The first issue is whether the following transactions involving an
entity’s own equity instruments should be accounted for as equity-
settled or as cash-settled in accordance with the requirements of this
SLFRS :
(a) an entity grants to its employees rights to equity instruments
of the entity (eg share options), and either chooses or is required
to buy equity instruments (ie treasury shares) from another
party, to satisfy its obligations to its employees; and
(b) an entity’s employees are granted rights to equity instruments
of the entity (eg share options), either by the entity itself or by
its shareholders, and the shareholders of the entity provide
the equity instruments needed.
Para B49
The entity shall account for share-based payment transactions in
which it receives services as consideration for its own equity
instruments as equity-settled. This applies regardless of whether the
entity chooses or is required to buy those equity instruments from
another party to satisfy its obligations to its employees under the
share-based payment arrangement. It also applies regardless of
whether :
(a) the employee’s rights to the entity’s equity instruments were
granted by the entity itself or by its shareholder(s); or
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
38A
(b) the share-based payment arrangement was settled by the entity
itself or by its shareholder(s).
Para B50
If the shareholder has an obligation to settle the transaction with its
investee’s employees, it provides equity instruments of its investee
rather than its own. Therefore, if its investee is in the same group as
the shareholder, in accordance with paragraph 43C, the shareholder
shall measure its obligation in accordance with the requirements
applicable to cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the
shareholder’s separate financial statements and those applicable to
equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the shareholder’s
consolidated financial statements.
Share-based payment arrangements involving equity instruments
of the parent
Para B51
The second issue concerns share-based payment transactions
between two or more entities within the same group involving an
equity instrument of another group entity. For example, employees of
a subsidiary are granted rights to equity instruments of its parent as
consideration for the services provided to the subsidiary.
Para B52
Therefore, the second issue concerns the following share-based
payment arrangements:
(a) a parent grants rights to its equity instruments directly to the
employees of its subsidiary: the parent (not the subsidiary)
has the obligation to provide the employees of the subsidiary
with the equity instruments; and
(b)  a subsidiary grants rights to equity instruments of its parent
to its employees: the subsidiary has the obligation to provide
its employees with the equity instruments. A parent grants
rights to its equity instruments to the employees of its
subsidiary (paragraph B52(a))
Para B53
The subsidiary does not have an obligation to provide its parent’s
equity instruments to the subsidiary’s employees. Therefore, in
accordance with paragraph 43B, the subsidiary shall measure the
services received from its employees in accordance with the
requirements applicable to equity-settled share-based payment
transactions, and recognise a corresponding increase in equity as a
contribution from the parent.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
39A
Para B54
The parent has an obligation to settle the transaction with the
subsidiary’s employees by providing the parent’s own equity
instruments. Therefore, in accordance with paragraph 43C, the parent
shall measure its obligation in accordance with the requirements
applicable to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. A
subsidiary grants rights to equity instruments of its parent to
itsemployees (paragraph B52(b))
Para B55
Because the subsidiary does not meet either of the conditions in
paragraph 43B, it shall account for the transaction with its employees
as cash-settled. This requirement applies irrespective of how the
subsidiary obtains the equity instruments to satisfy its obligations
to its employees.
Share-based payment arrangements involving cash-settled payments
to employees
Para B56
The third issue is how an entity that receives goods or services from
its suppliers (including employees) should account for share-based
arrangements that are cash-settled when the entity itself does not
have any obligation to make the required payments to its suppliers.
For example, consider the following arrangements in which the parent
(not the entity itself) has an obligation to make the required cash
payments to the employees of the entity:
(a) the employees of the entity will receive cash payments that are
linked to the price of its equity instruments.
(b) the employees of the entity will receive cash payments that are
linked to the price of its parent’s equity instruments.
Para B57
The subsidiary does not have an obligation to settle the transaction
with its employees. Therefore, the subsidiary shall account for the
transaction with its employees as equity-settled, and recognise a
corresponding increase in equity as a contribution from its parent.
The subsidiary shall remeasure the cost of the transaction
subsequently for any changes resulting from non-market vesting
conditions not being met in accordance with paragraphs 19–21. This
differs from the measurement of the transaction as cash-settled in the
consolidated financial statements of the group.
Para B58
Because the parent has an obligation to settle the transaction with
the employees, and the consideration is cash, the parent (and the
consolidated group) shall measure its obligation in accordance with
the requirements applicable to cash-settled share-based payment
transactions in paragraph 43C.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
40A
Transfer of employees between group entities
Para B59
The fourth issue relates to group share-based payment arrangements
that involve employees of more than one group entity. For example, a
parent might grant rights to its equity instruments to the employees
of its subsidiaries, conditional upon the completion of continuing
service with the group for a specified period. An employee of one
subsidiary might transfer employment to another subsidiary during
the specified vesting period without the employee’s rights to equity
instruments of the parent under the original share-based payment
arrangement being affected. If the subsidiaries have no obligation to
settle the share-based payment transaction with their employees,
they account for it as an equity-settled transaction. Each subsidiary
shall measure the services received from the employee by reference
to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date the rights to
those equity instruments were originally granted by the parent as
defined in Appendix A, and the proportion of the vesting period the
employee served with each subsidiary.
Para B60
If the subsidiary has an obligation to settle the transaction with its
employees in its parent’s equity instruments, it accounts for the
transaction as cash-settled. Each subsidiary shall measure the services
received on the basis of grant date fair value of the equity instruments
for the proportion of the vesting period the employee served with
each subsidiary. In addition, each subsidiary shall recognise any
change in the fair value of the equity instruments during the
employee’s service period with each subsidiary.
Para B61
Such an employee, after transferring between group entities, may fail
to satisfy a vesting condition other than a market condition as defined
in Appendix A, eg. the employee leaves the group before completing
the service period. In this case, because the vesting condition is
service to the group, each subsidiary shall adjust the amount
previously recognised in respect of the services received from the
employee in accordance with the principles in paragraph 19. Hence, if
the rights to the equity instruments granted by the parent do not
vest because of an employee’s failure to meet a vesting condition
other than a market condition, no amount is recognised on a cumulative
basis for the services received from that employee in the financial
statements of any group entity.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
41A
SLFRS 3-Business Combinations
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 3 Para 16 Para 16
In some situations, SLFRSs provide for different accounting
depending on how an entity classifies or designates a particular asset
or liability. Examples of classifications or designations that the acquirer
shall make on the basis of the pertinent conditions as they exist at
the acquisition date include but are not limited to:
(a) classification of particular financial assets and liabilities as
measured at fair value or as at amortised cost, in accordance
with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
(b) designation of a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument
in accordance with LKAS 39; and
(c) assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be
separated from a host contract in accordance with SLFRS 9
(which is a matter of ‘classification’ as this SLFRS uses that
term).
Para 19 Para 19
For each business combination, the acquirer shall measure at the
acquisition date components of non-controlling interests in the
acquiree that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders
to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of
liquidation at either:
(a) fair value; or
(b) the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the
recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
All other components of non-controlling interests shall be measured
at their acquisition-date fair values, unless another measurement basis
is required by SLFRSs.
Para 30 Share-based payment transactions
Para 30
The acquirer shall measure a liability or an equity instrument related
to share-based payment transactions of the acquiree or the
replacement of an acquiree’s share-based payment transactions with
share-based payment transactions of the acquirer in accordance with
the method in SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date.
(This SLFRS refers to the result of that method as the ‘market-based
measure’ of the share-based payment transaction.)
Para 42 Para 42
In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall
remeasure its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its
acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
42A
any, in profit or loss or other comprehensive income, as appropriate.
In prior reporting periods, the acquirer may have recognised changes
in the value of its equity interest in the acquiree in other
comprehensive income.  If so, the amount that was recognised in
other comprehensive income shall be recognised on the same basis
as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly of the
previously held equity interest.
Para 53 Para 53
Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a
business combination. Those costs include finder’s fees; advisory,
legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting
fees; general administrative costs, including the costs of maintaining
an internal acquisitions department; and costs of registering and
issuing debt and equity securities.  The acquirer shall account for
acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which the
costs are incurred and the services are received, with one exception.
The costs to issue debt or equity securities shall be recognised in
accordance with LKAS 32 and SLFRS 9.
Para 56 Para 56
After initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or
expires, the acquirer shall measure a contingent liability recognised
in a business combination at the higher of:
(a)  the amount that would be recognised in accordance with LKAS
37; and
(b) the amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, cumulative
amortisation recognised in accordance with LKAS 18 Revenue.
This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in
accordance with SLFRS 9
Para 58 (b) Para 58 (b)
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or a liability that:
(i) is a financial instrument and is within the scope of SLFRS 9 or
LKAS 39 shall be measured at fair value, with any resulting
gain or loss recognised either in profit or loss or in other
comprehensive income in accordance with SLFRS 9.
(ii)  is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be accounted for in
accordance with LKAS 37 or other SLFRSs as appropriate.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
43A
Para B56 Para B56
An acquirer may exchange its share-based payment awards*
(replacement awards) for awards held by employees of the acquiree.
Exchanges of share options or other share-based payment awards in
conjunction with a business combination are accounted for as
modifications of share-based payment awards in accordance with
SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment. If the acquirer replaces the acquiree
awards, either all or a portion of the market-based measure of the
acquirer’s replacement awards shall be included in measuring the
consideration transferred in the business combination. Paragraphs
B57–B62 provide guidance on how to allocate the market-based
measure. However, in situations in which acquiree awards would
expire as a consequence of a business combination and if the acquirer
replaces those awards when it is not obliged to do so, all of the
market-based measure of the replacement awards shall be recognised
as remuneration cost in the post-combination financial statements in
accordance with SLFRS 2. That is to say, none of the market-based
measure of those awards shall be included in measuring the
consideration transferred in the business combination. The acquirer
is obliged to replace the acquiree awards if the acquiree or its employees
have the ability to enforce replacement. For example, for the purposes
of applying this guidance, the acquirer is obliged to replace the
acquiree’s awards if replacement is required by:
(a) the terms of the acquisition agreement;
(b)  the terms of the acquiree’s awards; or
(c) applicable laws or regulations.
*In paragraphs B56–B62 the term ‘share-based payment awards’ refers
to vested or unvested share-based payment transactions.
Not included Equity-settled share-based payment transactions of the acquiree
Para B62A
The acquiree may have outstanding share-based payment
transactions that the acquirer does not exchange for its share-based
payment transactions. If vested, those acquiree share-based payment
transactions are part of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree
and are measured at their market-based measure. If unvested, they
are measured at their market-based measure as if the acquisition date
were the grant date in accordance with paragraphs 19 and 30.
Para B62B
The market-based measure of unvested share-based payment
transactions is allocated to the non-controlling interest on the basis
of the ratio of the portion of the vesting period completed to the
greater of the total vesting period and the original vesting period of
the share-based payment transaction. The balance is allocated to
post-combination service.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
44A
SLFRS 4 – Insurance Contracts
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 4 Para 3 Para 3
This SLFRS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers,
such as accounting for financial assets held by insurers and financial
liabilities issued by insurers (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments :
Presentation, LKAS 39 Financial Instruments:  Recognition and
Measurement, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments), except
in the transitional provisions in paragraph 45.
Para 4(d) ( d)  financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously
asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance
contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts,
in which case the issuer may elect to apply either LKAS 32, SLFRS 7
and SLFRS 9 or this Standard to such financial guarantee contracts.
The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the
election for each contract is irrevocable.
Para 7 Para 7
SLFRS 9 requires an entity to separate some embedded derivatives
from their host contract, measure them at fair value  and include
changes in their fair value in profit or loss. SLFRS 9 applies to
derivatives embedded in an insurance contract unless the embedded
derivative is itself an insurance contract.
Para 8 Para 8
As an exception to the requirements in SLFRS 9, an insurer need not
separate, and measure at fair value, a policyholder’s option to
surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount (or for an amount
based on a fixed amount and an interest rate), even if the exercise
price differs from the carrying amount of the host insurance liability.
However, the requirements in SLFRS 9 do apply to a put option or
cash surrender option embedded in an insurance contract if the
surrender value varies in response to the change in a financial variable
(such as an equity or commodity price or index), or a non-financial
variable that is not specific to a party to the contract. Furthermore,
those requirements also apply if the holder’s ability to exercise a put
option or cash surrender option is triggered by a change in such a
variable (for example, a put option that can be exercised if a stock
market index reaches a specified level).
Para 12(b) ( b) apply SLFRS 9 to the deposit component.
Para 34 (d) ( d) shall, if the contract contains an embedded derivative within
the scope of SLFRS 9, apply SLFRS 9 to that embedded
derivative.
Para 35 (a) ( a) if the issuer classifies the entire discretionary participation
feature as a liability, it shall apply the liability adequacy test in
paragraphs 15–19 to the whole contract (ie both the guaranteed
element and the discretionary participation feature). The issuer

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
45A
need not determine the amount that would result from applying
SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element.
Para 35 (b) ( b)  if the issuer classifies part or all of that feature as a separate
component of equity, the liability recognised for the whole
contract shall not be less than the amount that would result
from applying SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element. That amount
shall include the intrinsic value of an option to surrender the
contract, but need not include its time value if paragraph 9
exempts that option from measurement at fair value. The issuer
need not disclose the amount that would result from applying
SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element, nor need it present that
amount separately. Furthermore, the issuer need not determine
that amount if the total liability recognised is clearly higher.
Para 39 (d) (i) ( d)  (i) an insurer need not provide the maturity analyses required by
paragraph 39(a) and (b) of SLFRS 7 if it discloses information
about the estimated timing of the net cash outflows resulting
from recognised insurance liabilities instead. This may take the
form of an analysis, by estimated timing, of the amounts
recognised in the statement of financial position.
Para 45 Para 45
Notwithstanding paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9, when an insurer changes
its accounting policies for insurance liabilities, it is permitted, but not
required, to reclassify some or all of its financial assets so that they
are measured at fair value. This reclassification is permitted if an
insurer changes accounting policies when it first applies this SLFRS
and if it makes a subsequent policy change permitted by paragraph
22. The reclassification is a change in accounting policy and LKAS 8
applies.
Appendix A Deposit component .—A contractual component that is not accounted
for as a derivative under SLFRS 9 and would be within the scope of
SLFRS 9 if it were a separate instrument.
Appendix B18 (g) credit insurance that provides for specified payments to be made to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor
fails to make payment when due under the original or modified terms
of a debt instrument. These contracts could have various legal forms,
such as that of a guarantee, some types of letter of credit, a credit
derivative default contract or an insurance contract. However,
although these contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract,
they also meet the definition of a financial guarantee contract in
SLFRS 9 and are within the scope of LKAS 32* and SLFRS 9, not this
SLFRS (see paragraph 4(d)). Nevertheless, if an issuer of financial
guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly that it regards
such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting
applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either
LKAS 32* and SLFRS 9 or this Standard to such financial guarantee
contracts.
*When an entity applies SLFRS 7, the reference to LKAS 32 is
replaced by a reference to SLFRS 7.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
46A
B19 (e) ( e)  derivatives that expose one party to financial risk but not
insurance risk, because they require that party to make payment
based solely on changes in one or more of a specified interest
rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign
exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit
index or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial
variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract
(see SLFRS 9).
B19 (f) ( f) a credit-related guarantee (or letter of credit, credit derivative
default contract or credit insurance contract) that requires
payments even if the holder has not incurred a loss on the
failure of the debtor to make payments when due (see SLFRS
9).
B20 Para B20
If the contracts described in paragraph B19 create financial assets or
financial liabilities, they are within the scope of SLFRS 9. Among
other things, this means that the parties to the contract use what is
sometimes called deposit accounting, which involves the following:
(a) one party recognises the consideration received as a financial
liability, rather than as revenue.
(b) the other party recognises the consideration paid as a financial
asset, rather than as an expense.
SLFRS 5-Non- Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 5 Not Included Para 5B
This SLFRS specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-
current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or
discontinued operations. Disclosures in other SLFRSs do not apply
to such assets (or disposal groups) unless those SLFRSs require:
(a) specific disclosures in respect of non-current assets (or disposal
groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued operations;
or
(b) disclosures about measurement of assets and liabilities within
a disposal group that are not within the scope of the
measurement requirement of SLFRS 5 and such disclosures are
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
47A
not already provided in the other notes to the financial
statements.
Additional disclosures about non-current assets (or disposal
groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued operations
may be necessary to comply with the general requirements of
LKAS 1, in particular paragraphs 15 and 125 of that Standard
SLFRS 7 – Financial Instruments : Disclosures
Standard Para Replaced by
Reference
SLFRS 7 Para 2 Para 2
The principles in this SLFRS complement the principles for
recognising, measuring and presenting financial assets and financial
liabilities in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Para 3(a) ( a)  those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures
that are accounted for in accordance with LKAS 27
Consolidated and Separate Financial  Statements, LKAS 28
Investments in Associates or LKAS 31 Interests in Joint
V entures. However, in some cases, LKAS 27, LKAS 28 or LKAS
31 permits an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9; in those cases, entities
shall apply the requirements of this SLFRS. Entities shall also
apply this SLFRS to all derivatives linked to interests in
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless the derivative
meets the definition of an equity instrument in LKAS 32.
Para 3(d) ( d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
However, this SLFRS applies to derivatives that are embedded
in insurance contracts if SLFRS 9 requires the entity to account
for them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this SLFRS
to financial guarantee contracts if the issuer applies SLFRS 9
in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply
SLFRS 4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d)
of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 in recognising and measuring
them.
Para 3(e) ( e)  financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-
based payment transactions to which SLFRS 2 Share-based
Payment applies, except that this SLFRS applies to contracts
within the scope of SLFRS 9.
Para 4 Para 4
This SLFRS applies to recognised and unrecognised financial
instruments. Recognised financial instruments include financial
assets and financial liabilities that are within the scope of SLFRS 9.
Unrecognised financial instruments include some financial
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
48A
instruments that, although outside the scope of SLFRS 9, are within
the scope of this SLFRS (such as some loan commitments).
Para 5 Para 5
This SLFRS applies to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item
that are within the scope of SLFRS 9.
Para 8 Para 8
The carrying amounts of each of the following categories, as specified
in SLFRS 9, shall be disclosed either in the statement of financial
position or in the notes :
(a) financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss,
showing separately (i) those designated as such upon initial
recognition and (ii) those mandatorily measured at fair value
in accordance with SLFRS 9.
(b) –(d) [deleted]
(e) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, showing
separately (i) those designated as such upon initial recognition
and (ii) those that meet the definition of held for trading in
SLFRS 9.
(f) financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(g) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(h) financial assets measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income.
Para 9 Para 9
If the entity has designated as measured at fair value a financial
asset (or group of financial assets) that would otherwise be measured
at amortised cost, it shall disclose :
(a) the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of
the financial asset (or group of financial assets) at the end of
the reporting period.
(b) the amount by which any related credit derivatives or similar
instruments mitigate that maximum exposure to credit risk.
(c) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in
the fair value of the financial asset (or group of financial assets)
that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the financial
asset determined either :
Standard Para Replaced by
Reference

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
49A
(i) as the amount of change in its fair value that is not
attributable to changes in market conditions that give
rise to market risk ; or
(ii) using an alternative method the entity believes more
faithfully represents the amount of change in its fair value
that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the
asset. Changes in market conditions that give rise to
market risk include changes in an observed (benchmark)
interest rate, commodity price, foreign exchange rate or
index of prices or rates.
(d) the amount of the change in the fair value of any related credit
derivatives or similar instruments that has occurred during the
period and cumulatively since the financial asset was
designated.
Para 10 Para 10
If  the entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is
required to present the effects of changes in that liability’s credit risk
in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9), it
shall disclose :
(a) the amount of change, cumulatively, in the fair value of the
financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit
risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13–B5.7.20 of SLFRS
9 for guidance on determining the effects of changes in a
liability’s credit risk).
(b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount
and the amount the entity would be contractually required to
pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
(c) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during
the period including the reason for such transfers.
(b) if a liability is derecognised during the period, the amount (if
any) presented in other comprehensive income that was realised
at derecognition.
Not included Para 10A
If an entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is
required to present all changes in the fair value of that liability
(including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in
profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9), it shall
disclose :
Standard Para Replaced by
Reference
4 - PG 001326

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
50A
(a) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in
the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to
changes in the credit risk of that liability (see paragraphs
B5.7.13–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 for guidance on determining the
effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk); and
(b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount
and the amount the entity would be contractually required to
pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
Para 11 Para 11
The entity shall also disclose :
(a) a detailed description of the methods used to comply with the
requirements in paragraphs 9(c), 10(a) and 10A(a) and
paragraph 5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9, including an explanation of why
the method is appropriate.
(b) if the entity believes that the disclosure it has given, either in
the statement of financial position or in the notes, to comply
with the requirements in paragraph 9(c), 10(a) or 10A(a) or
paragraph 5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9 does not faithfully represent the
change in the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability
attributable to changes in its credit risk, the reasons for reaching
this conclusion and the factors it believes are relevant.
(b) a detailed description of the methodology or
methodologies used to determine whether presenting the
effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in other
comprehensive income would create or enlarge an
accounting mismatch in profit or loss (see paragraphs
5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9). If an entity is required to
present the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in
profit or loss (see paragraph 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9), the
disclosure must include a detailed description of the
economic relationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 of
SLFRS 9. Financial assets measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income
Not included Financial assets measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income
Para 11A
If an entity has designated investments in equity instruments to be
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, as
permitted by paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose:
(a) which investments in equity instruments have been designated
to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income.
(b) the reasons for using this presentation alternative.
Standard Para Replaced by
Reference

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
51A
(c)  the fair value of each such investment at the end of the reporting
period.
(d) dividends recognised during the period, showing separately
those related to investments derecognised during the reporting
period and those related to investments held at the end of the
reporting period.
(e) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during
the period including the reason for such transfers.
Not included Para 11B
If an entity derecognised investments in equity instruments measured
at fair value through other comprehensive income during the reporting
period, it shall disclose:
(a) the reasons for disposing of the investments.
(b) the fair value of the investments at the date of derecognition.
(c) the cumulative gain or loss on disposal.
12–12A [Deleted]
Not included Para 12B
An entity shall disclose if, in the current or previous reporting
periods, it has reclassified any financial assets in accordance with
paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9. For each such event, an entity shall
disclose:
(a) the date of reclassification.
(b) a detailed explanation of the change in business model and a
qualitative description of its effect on the entity’s financial
statements.
(c) the amount reclassified into and out of each category.
Not included Para 12C
For each reporting period following reclassification until
derecognition, an entity shall disclose for assets reclassified so that
they are measured at amortised cost in accordance with paragraph
4.4.1 of SLFRS 9:
(a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of
reclassification; and
Standard Para Replaced by
Reference

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
52A
(b) the interest income or expense recognised.
Not included Para 12D
If an entity has reclassified financial assets so that they are measured
at amortised cost since its last annual reporting date, it shall disclose:
(a) the fair value of the financial assets at the end of the reporting
period; and
(b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in
profit or loss during the reporting period if the financial assets
had not been reclassified.
Para 13  [Deleted]
Para 14 (a) ( a) the carrying amount of financial assets it has pledged as
collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities, including
amounts that have been reclassified in accordance with
paragraph 3.3.23(a) of SLFRS 9; and
Para 20 Para 20
An entity shall disclose the following items of income, expense, gains
or losses either in the statement of comprehensive income or in the
notes :
(a) net gains or net losses on :
(i) financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair
value through profit or loss, showing separately those
on financial assets or financial liabilities designated as
such upon initial recognition, and those on financial
assets or financial liabilities that are mandatorily
measured at fair value in accordance with SLFRS 9
(eg. financial liabilities that meet the definition of held
for trading in SLFRS 9). For financial liabilities designated
as at fair value through profit or loss, an entity shall
show separately the amount of gain or loss recognised
in other comprehensive income and the amount
recognised in profit or loss.
(ii) –(iv) [deleted]
(v) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(vi) financial assets measured at amortised   cost.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
53A
(vii) financial assets measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income.
(b) total interest income and total interest expense (calculated using
the effective interest method) for financial assets that are
measured at amortised cost or financial liabilities not at fair
value through profit or loss.
(c) fee income and expense (other than amounts included in
determining the effective interest rate) arising from :
(i) financial assets measured at amortised cost or financial
liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss;
and
(ii) trust and other fiduciary activities that result in the
holding or investing of assets on behalf of individuals,
trusts, retirement benefit plans, and other institutions.
(d) interest income on impaired financial assets accrued in
accordance with paragraph AG93 of LKAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement .
(e) the amount of any impairment loss for each class of financial
asset.
Not included Para 20A
An entity shall disclose an analysis of the gain or loss recognised in
the statement of comprehensive income arising from the derecognition
of financial assets measured at amortised cost, showing separately
gains and losses arising from derecognition of those financial assets.
This disclosure shall include the reasons for derecognising those
financial assets.
Para 27 An entity shall disclose for each class of financial instruments the
methods and, when a valuation technique is used, the assumptions
applied in determining fair values of each class of financial assets or
financial liabilities. For example, if applicable, an entity discloses
information about the assumptions relating to prepayment rates, rates
of estimated credit losses, and interest rates or discount rates. If
there has been a change in valuation technique, the entity shall
disclose that change and the reasons for making it.
Not included Para 27A
To make the disclosures required by paragraph 27B an entity shall
classify fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that
reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
54A
measurements. The fair value hierarchy shall have the following
levels :
(a) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities (Level 1);
(b) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie as
prices) or indirectly (ie derived from prices) (Level 2); and
(c) inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable
market data (unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value
measurement is categorised in its entirety shall be determined on the
basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
measurement in its entirety. For this purpose, the significance of an
input is assessed against the fair value measurement in its entirety. If
a fair value measurement uses observable inputs that require
significant adjustment based on unobservable inputs, that
measurement is a Level 3 measurement. Assessing the significance
of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety
requires judgement, considering factors specific to the asset or
liability.
Not included Para 27B
For fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial
position an entity shall disclose for each class of financial instruments:
(a) the level in the fair value hierarchy into which the fair value
measurements are categorised in their entirety, segregating
fair value measurements in accordance with the levels defined
in paragraph 27A.
(b) any significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the
fair value hierarchy and the reasons for those transfers.
Transfers into each level shall be disclosed and discussed
separately from transfers out of each level. For this purpose,
significance shall be judged with respect to profit or loss, and
total assets or total liabilities.
(c) for fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy,
a reconciliation from the beginning balances to the ending
balances, disclosing separately changes during the period
attributable to the following:
(i) total gains or losses for the period recognised in profit
or loss, and a description of where they are presented in
the statement of comprehensive income or the separate
income statement (if presented);
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
55A
(ii) total gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive
income;
(iii) purchases, sales, issues and settlements (each type of
movement disclosed separately); and
(iv) transfers into or out of Level 3 (eg. transfers attributable
to changes in the observability of market data) and the
reasons for those transfers. For significant transfers,
transfers into Level 3 shall be disclosed and discussed
separately from transfers out of Level 3.
(d) the amount of total gains or losses for the period in (c)(i) above
included in profit or loss that are attributable to gains or losses
relating to those assets and liabilities held at the end of the
reporting period and a description of where those gains or
losses are presented in the statement of comprehensive income
or the separate income statement (if presented).
(e) for fair value measurements in Level 3, if changing one or more
of the inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions
would change fair value significantly, the entity shall state that
fact and disclose the effect of those changes. The entity shall
disclose how the effect of a change to a reasonably possible
alternative assumption was calculated. For this purpose,
significance shall be judged with respect to profit or loss, and
total assets or total liabilities, or, when changes in fair value are
recognized in other comprehensive income, total equity.
An entity shall present the quantitative disclosures required by this
paragraph in tabular format unless another format is more appropriate.
Para 28 Para 28
If the market for a financial instrument is not active, an entity
establishes its fair value using a valuation technique (see paragraphs
B5.4.6–B5.4.12 of SLFRS 9). Nevertheless, the best evidence of fair
value at initial recognition is the transaction price (ie. the fair value of
the consideration given or received), unless the conditions described
in paragraph B5.4.8 of SLFRS 9 are met. It follows that there could be
a difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the amount
that would be determined at that date using the valuation technique.
If such a difference exists, an entity shall disclose, by class of financial
instrument :
(a) its accounting policy for recognising that difference in profit
or loss to reflect a change in factors (including time) that market
participants would consider in setting a price (see paragraph
B5.4.9 of SLFRS 9); and
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
56A
(b) the aggregate difference yet to be recognised in profit or loss
at the beginning and end of the period and a reconciliation of
changes in the balance of this difference.
Para 29 Para 29
Disclosures of fair value are not required :
(a) when the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair
value, for example, for financial instruments such as short-term
trade receivables and payables;
(b) [deleted]
(c) for a contract containing a discretionary participation feature
(as described in SLFRS 4) if the fair value of that feature cannot
be measured reliably.
Para 30 Para 30
In the cases described in paragraph 29(c), an entity shall disclose
information to help users of the financial statements make their own
judgements about the extent of possible differences between the
carrying amount of those contracts and their fair value, including:
(a) the fact that fair value information has not been disclosed for
these instruments because their fair value cannot be measured
reliably;
(b) a description of the financial instruments, their carrying amount,
and an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably;
(c) information about the market for the instruments;
(d) information about whether and how the entity intends to dispose
of the financial instruments; and
(e) if financial instruments whose fair value previously could not be
reliably measured are derecognised, that fact, their carrying
amount at the time of derecognition, and the amount of gain or
loss recognised.
Not included Para 32A Providing qualitative disclosures in the context of
quantitative disclosures enables users to link related disclosures
and hence form an overall picture of the nature and extent of risks
arising from financial instruments. The interaction between qualitative
and quantitative disclosures contributes to disclosure of information
in a way that better enables users to evaluate an entity’s exposure to
risks.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
57A
Para 34 Para 34
For each type of risk arising from financial instruments, an entity
shall disclose :
(a) summary quantitative data about its exposure to that risk at the
end of the reporting period. This disclosure shall be based on
the information provided internally to key management
personnel of the entity (as defined in LKAS 24 Related Party
Disclosures), for example the entity’s board of directors or chief
executive officer.
(b) the disclosures required by paragraphs 36–42, to the extent
not provided in accordance with (a).
(c) concentrations of risk if not apparent from the disclosures made
in accordance with (a) and (b).
Para 36 Para 36
An entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument :
(a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit
risk at the end of the reporting period without taking account
of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (eg. netting
agreements that do not qualify for offset in accordance with
LKAS 32); this disclosure is not required for financial
instruments whose carrying amount best represents the
maximum exposure to credit risk.
(b) a description of collateral held as security and of other credit
enhancements, and their financial effect ( eg. a quantification
of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements
mitigate credit risk) in respect of the amount that best represents
the maximum exposure to credit risk (whether disclosed in
accordance with (a) or represented by the carrying amount of a
financial instrument).
(c) information about the credit quality of financialassets that are
neither past due nor impaired.
(d) [deleted]
Para 37 Para 37
An entity shall disclose by class of financial asset :
(a) an analysis of the age of financial assets that are past due as
at the end of the reporting period but not impaired; and
(b) an analysis of financial assets that are individually determined
to be impaired as at the end of the reporting period, including
the factors the entity considered in determining that they are
impaired.
(c) [deleted]
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
58A
Para 38 Para 38
When an entity obtains financial or non-financial assets during the
period by taking possession of collateral it holds as security or calling
on other credit enhancements (eg. guarantees), and such assets meet
the recognition criteria in other SLFRSs, an entity shall disclose for
such assets held at the reporting date :
(a) the nature and carrying amount of the assets; and
(b) when the assets are not readily convertible into cash, its policies
for disposing of such assets or for using them in its operations.
Para 39 Para 39
An entity shall disclose:
(a) a maturity analysis for non-derivative financial liabilities
(including issued financial guarantee contracts) that shows
the remaining contractual maturities.
(b) a maturity analysis for derivative financial liabilities. The
maturity analysis shall include the remaining contractual
maturities for those derivative financial liabilities for which
contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of
the timing of the cash flows (see paragraph B11B).
(c) a description of how it manages the liquidity risk inherent in (a)
and (b).
Not included Transfers of financial assets
Para 42A
The disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42B–42H relating to
transfers of financial assets supplement the other disclosure
requirements of this SLFRS. An entity shall present the disclosures
required by paragraphs 42B–42H in a single note in its financial
statements. An entity shall provide the required disclosures for all
transferred financial assets that are not derecognised and for any
continuing involvement in a transferred asset, existing at the reporting
date, irrespective of when the related transfer transaction occurred.
For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in those
paragraphs, an entity transfers all or a part of a financial asset (the
transferred financial asset) if, and only if, it either:
(a)   transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that
financial asset; or
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
59A
(b)    retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that
financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay
the cash flows to one or more recipients in an arrangement.
Not included Para 42B
An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial
statements:
(a)  to understand the relationship between transferred financial assets
that are not derecognised in their entirety and the associated
liabilities; and
(b)   to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entity’s
continuing involvement in derecognised financial assets.
Not included Para 42C
For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in
paragraphs 42E–42H, an entity has continuing involvement in a
transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, the entity retains
any of the contractual rights or obligations inherent in the transferred
financial asse or obtains any new contractual rights or obligations
relating to the transferred financial asset. For the purposes of applying
the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E–42H, the following
do not constitute continuing involvement :
(a) normal representations and warranties relating to fraudulent
transfer and concepts of reasonableness, good faith and fair
dealings that could invalidate a transfer as a result of legal
action;
(b) forward, option and other contracts to reacquire the transferred
financial asset for which the contract price (or exercise price) is
the fair value of the transferred financial asset; or
(c) an arrangement whereby an entity retains the contractual rights
to receive the cash flows of a financial asset but assumes a
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more
entities and the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5(a)–(c) of SLFRS
9 are met.
Not included Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety
Para 42D
An entity may have transferred financial assets in such a way that
part or all of the transferred financial assets do not qualify for
derecognition. To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B (a),
the entity shall disclose at each reporting date for each class of
transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety:
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
60A
(a) the nature of the transferred assets.
(b) the nature of the risks and rewards of ownership to which the
entity is exposed.
(c) a description of the nature of the relationship between the
transferred assets and the associated liabilities, including
restrictions arising from the transfer on the reporting entity’s
use of the transferred assets.
(d) when the counterparty (counterparties) to the associated
liabilities has (have) recourse only to the transferred assets, a
schedule that sets out the fair value of the transferred assets,
the fair value of the associated liabilities and the net position
(the difference between the fair value of the transferred assets
and the associated liabilities).
(e) when the entity continues to recognise all of the transferred
assets, the carrying amounts of the transferred assets and the
associated liabilities.
(f) when the entity continues to recognise the assets to the extent
of its continuing involvement (see paragraphs 3.2.6(c)(ii) and
3.2.16 of SLFRS 9), the total carrying amount of the original
assets before the transfer, the carrying amount of the assets
that the entity continues to recognise, and the carrying amount
of the associated liabilities.
Not included Transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety
Para 42E
To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(b), when an entity
derecognizes transferred financial assets in their entirety (see
paragraph 3.2.6(a) and (c)(i) of SLFRS 9) but has continuing
involvement in them, the entity shall disclose, as a minimum, for each
type of continuing involvement at each reporting date :
(a) the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities that are
recognised in the entity’s statement of financial position and
represent the entity’s continuing involvement in the
derecognised financial assets, and the line items in which the
carrying amount of those assets and liabilities are recognised.
(b) the fair value of the assets and liabilities that represent the
entity’s continuing involvement in the derecognised financial
assets.
(c) the amount that best represents the entity’s maximum exposure
to loss from its continuing involvement in the derecognised
financial assets, and information showing how the maximum
exposure to loss is determined.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
61A
(d) the undiscounted cash outflows that would or may be required
to repurchase derecognised financial assets (eg. the strike price
in an option agreement) or other amounts payable to the
transferee in respect of the transferred assets. If the cash
outflow is variable then the amount disclosed should be based
on the conditions that exist at each reporting date.;
(e) a maturity analysis of the undiscounted cash outflows that
would or may be required to repurchase the derecognised
financial assets or other amounts payable to the transferee in
respect of the transferred assets, showing the remaining
contractual maturities of the entity’s continuing involvement.;
(f) qualitative information that explains and supports the
quantitative disclosures required in (a)–(e).
Not included Para 42F
An entity may aggregate the information required by paragraph 42E
in respect of a particular asset if the entity has more than one type of
continuing involvement in that derecognised financial asset, and
report it under one type of continuing involvement.
Not included Para 42G
In addition, an entity shall disclose for each type of continuing
involvement :-
(a) the gain or loss recognised at the date of transfer of the assets;
(b) income and expenses recognised, both in the reporting period
and cumulatively, from the entity’s continuing involvement in
the derecognised financial assets ( eg.- fair value changes in
derivative instruments);
(c) if the total amount of proceeds from transfer activity (that
qualifies for derecognition) in a reporting period is not evenly
distributed throughout the reporting period (eg.- if a substantial
proportion of the total amount of transfer activity takes place
in the closing days of a reporting period) :-
(i) when the greatest transfer activity took place within that
reporting period (eg.- the last five days before the end of
the reporting period),
(ii) the amount (eg.- related gains or losses) recognised from
transfer activity in that part of the reporting period, and
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
62A
(iii) the total amount of proceeds from transfer activity in
that part of the reporting period. An entity shall provide
this information for each period for which a statement of
comprehensive income is presented.
Not included Supplementary information
Para 42H
An entity shall disclose any additional information that it considers
necessary to meet the disclosure objectives in Paragraph 42B.
Not included Para 44I
When an entity first applies SLFRS 9, it shall disclose for each class
of financial assets at the date of initial application :
(a) the original measurement category and carrying amount
determined in accordance with LKAS 39;
(b) the new measurement category and carrying amount
determined in accordance with SLFRS 9;
(c) the amount of any financial assets in the statement of financial
position that were previously designated as measured at fair
value through profit or loss but are no longer so designated,
distinguishing between those that SLFRS 9 requires an entity
to reclassify and those that an entity elects to reclassify.
An entity shall present these quantitative disclosures in tabular
format unless another format is more appropriate.
Not included Para 44J
When an entity first applies SLFRS 9, it shall disclose qualitative
information to enable users to understand :
(a) how it applied the classification requirements in SLFRS 9 to
those financial assets whose classification has changed as a
result of applying SLFRS 9.;
(b) the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financial
assets or financial liabilities as measured at fair value through
profit or loss.
Appendix A Defined terms
The following terms are defined in Paragraph 11 of  LKAS 32,
Paragraph 9 of LKAS  39 or Appendix A of SLFRS 9 and are used in
the SLFRS with the meaning specified in LKAS 32, LKAS 39 and
SLFRS 9. :-
• amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
• derecognition
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
63A
• derivative
• effective interest method
• equity instrument
• fair value
• financial asset
• financial guarantee contract
• financial instrument
• financial liability
• financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
• forecast transaction
• hedging instrument
• held for trading
• reclassification date
• regular way purchase or sale.
Appendix B – Para B1 Paragraph 6 requires an entity to group financial instruments into
classes that are appropriate to the nature of the information disclosed
and that take into account the characteristics of those financial
instruments. The classes described in paragraph 6 are determined by
the entity and are, thus, distinct from the categories of financial
instruments specified in SLFRS 9 (which determine how financial
instruments are measured and where changes in fair value are
recognised).
Appendix B – Para B4 [Deleted]
Appendix B – Para B5 Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or bases)
used in preparing the financial statements and the other accounting
policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial
statements. For financial instruments, such disclosure may include:
(a) for financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit
or loss:
(i) the nature of the financial liabilities the entity has
designated as at fair value through profit or loss;
(ii) the criteria for so designating such financial liabilities on
initial recognition; and
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
64A
(iii) how the entity has satisfied the conditions in paragraph
4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 for such designation.
(aa) for financial assets designated as measured at fair value through
profit or loss:
( i ) the nature of the financial assets the entity has
designated as measured at fair value through profit or
loss; and
(ii) how the entity has satisfied the criteria in paragraph 4.1.5
of SLFRS 9 for such designation.
(b) [deleted]
(c) whether regular way purchases and sales of financial assets
are accounted for at trade date or at settlement date (see
paragraph 3.1.2 of SLFRS 9).
(d) when an allowance account is used to reduce the carrying
amount of financial assets impaired by credit losses:
(i) the criteria for determining when the carrying amount of
impaired financial assets is reduced directly (or, in the
case of a reversal of a write-down, increased directly)
and when the allowance account is used; and
(ii) the criteria for writing off amounts charged to the
allowance account against the carrying amount of
impaired financial assets (see paragraph 16).
(e) how net gains or net losses on each category of financial
instrument are determined (see paragraph 20(a)), for example,
whether the net gains or net losses on items at fair value through
profit or loss include interest or dividend income.
(f) the criteria the entity uses to determine that there is objective
evidence that an impairment loss has occurred (see paragraph
20(e)).
(g) when the terms of financial assets that would otherwise be
past due or impaired have been renegotiated, the accounting
policy for financial assets that are the subject of renegotiated
terms (see paragraph 36(d)).
Paragraph 122 of LKAS 1 also requires entities to disclose, in the
summary of significant accounting policies or other notes, the
judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management
has made in the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies
and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised
in the financial statements.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
65A
Appendix B – Para B10(a) granting loans to customers and placing deposits with other entities.
In these cases, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying
amount of the related financial assets.
Not included Quantitative liquidity risk disclosures (paragraphs 34(a) and 39(a)
and (b))
Para B10A
In accordance with paragraph 34(a) an entity discloses summary
quantitative data about its exposure to liquidity risk on the basis of
the information provided internally to key management personnel.
An entity shall explain how those data are determined. If the outflows
of cash (or another financial asset) included in those data could
either:
(a) occur significantly earlier than indicated in the data, or
(b) be for significantly different amounts from those indicated in
the data (eg for a derivative that is included in the data on a net
settlement basis but for which the counterparty has the option
to require gross settlement),the entity shall state that fact and
provide quantitative information that enables users of its
financial statements to evaluate the extent of this risk unless
that information is included in the contractual maturity analyses
required by paragraph 39(a) or (b).
Appendix B – Para B 11 In preparing the maturity analyses required by paragraph 39(a) and
(b), an entity uses its judgement to determine an appropriate number
of time bands. For example, an entity might determine that the following
time bands are appropriate :
(a) not later than one month;
(b) later than one month and not later than three months;
(c) later than three months and not later than one year; and
(d) later than one year and not later than five years.
Not included Para B11A
In complying with paragraph 39(a) and (b), an entity shall not separate
an embedded derivative from a hybrid (combined) financial
instrument. For such an instrument, an entity shall apply paragraph
39(a).
Not included Para B11B
Paragraph 39(b) requires an entity to disclose a quantitative maturity
analysis for derivative financial liabilities that shows remaining
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
5 - PG 001326

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
66A
contractual maturities if the contractual maturities are essential for
an understanding of the timing of the cash flows. For example, this
would be the case for :
(a) an interest rate swap with a remaining maturity of five years in
a cash flow hedge of a variable rate financial asset or liability.
(b) all loan commitments.
Not included Para B11C
Paragraph 39(a) and (b) requires an entity to disclose maturity
analyses for financial liabilities that show the remaining contractual
maturities for some financial liabilities. In this disclosure :
(a) when a counterparty has a choice of when an amount is paid,
the liability is allocated to the earliest period in which the entity
can be required to pay. For example, financial liabilities that an
entity can be required to repay on demand (eg demand deposits)
are included in the earliest time band.
(b) when an entity is committed to make amounts available in
installments, each installment is allocated to the earliest period
in which the entity can be required to pay. For example, an
undrawn loan commitment is included in the time band
containing the earliest date it can be drawn down.
(c) for issued financial guarantee contracts the maximum amount
of the guarantee is allocated to the earliest period in which the
guarantee could be called.
Not included Para B11D
The contractual amounts disclosed in the maturity analyses as
required by paragraph 39(a) and (b) are the contractual undiscounted
cash flows, for example :
(a) gross finance lease obligations (before deducting finance
charges);
(b) prices specified in forward agreements to purchase financial
assets for cash;
(c) net amounts for pay-floating/receive-fixed interest rate swaps
for which net cash flows are exchanged;
(d) contractual amounts to be exchanged in a derivative financial
instrument (eg a currency swap) for which gross cash flows
are exchanged; and
(e) gross loan commitments.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
67A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
Such undiscounted cash flows differ from the amount included
in the statement of financial position because the amount in
that statement is based on discounted cash flows. When the
amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined
by reference to the conditions existing at the end of the reporting
period. For example, when the amount payable varies with
changes in an index, the amount disclosed may be based on
the level of the index at the end of the period.
Not included Para B11E
Paragraph 39(c) requires an entity to describe how it manages the
liquidity risk inherent in the items disclosed in the quantitative
disclosures required in paragraph 39(a) and (b). An entity shall
disclose a maturity analysis of financial assets it holds for managing
liquidity risk (eg financial assets that are readily saleable or expected
to generate cash inflows to meet cash outflows on financial liabilities),
if that information is necessary to enable users of its financial
statements to evaluate the nature and extent of liquidity risk.
Not included Para B11F
Other factors that an entity might consider in providing the disclosure
required in paragraph 39(c) include, but are not limited to, whether
the entity:
(a) has committed borrowing facilities (eg. commercial paper
facilities) or other lines of credit (eg. stand-by credit facilities)
that it can access to meet liquidity needs;
(b) holds deposits at central banks to meet liquidity needs;
(c) has very diverse funding sources;
(d) has significant concentrations of liquidity risk in either its assets
or its funding sources;
(e) has internal control processes and contingency plans for
managing liquidity risk;
(f) has instruments that include accelerated repayment terms (eg.
on the downgrade of the entity’s credit rating);
(g) has instruments that could require the posting of collateral (eg.
margin calls for derivatives);
(h) has instruments that allow the entity to choose whether it settles
its financial liabilities by delivering cash (or another financial
asset) or by delivering its own shares; or
(i) has instruments that are subject to master netting agreements.

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
68A
Appendix B12–B16 [Deleted]
Appendix B22 Interest rate risk arises on interest-bearing financial instruments
recognised in the statement of financial position (eg. debt instruments
acquired or issued) and on some financial instruments not recognised
in the statement of financial position (eg some loan commitments).
Appendix  B27 In accordance with paragraph 40(a), the sensitivity of profit or loss
(that arises, for example, from instruments measured at fair value
through profit or loss) is disclosed separately from the sensitivity of
other comprehensive income (that arises, for example, from
investments in equity instruments whose changes in fair value are
presented in other comprehensive income).
Not included Derecognition (paragraphs 42C–42H)
Continuing involvement (paragraph 42C)
Para B29
The assessment of continuing involvement in a transferred financial
asset for the purposes of the disclosure requirements in paragraphs
42E–42H is made at the level of the reporting entity. For example, if a
subsidiary transfers to an unrelated third party a financial asset in
which the parent of the subsidiary has continuing involvement, the
subsidiary does not include the parent’s involvement in the
assessment of whether it has continuing involvement in the transferred
asset in its stand-alone financial statements (ie when the subsidiary
is the reporting entity). However, a parent would include its
continuing involvement (or that of another member of the group) in
a financial asset transferred by its subsidiary in determining whether
it has continuing involvement in the transferred asset in its
consolidated financial statements (ie when the reporting entity is the
group).
Not included Para B30
An entity does not have a continuing involvement in a transferred
financial asset if, as part of the transfer, it neither retains any of the
contractual rights or obligations inherent in the transferred financial
asset nor acquires any new contractual rights or obligations relating
to the transferred financial asset. An entity does not have continuing
involvement in a transferred financial asset if it has neither an interest
in the future performance of the transferred financial asset nor a
responsibility under any circumstances to make payments in respect
of the transferred financial asset in the future.
Not included Para B31
Continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset may result
from contractual provisions in the transfer agreement or in a separate
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
69A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
agreement with the transferee or a third party entered into in
connection with the transfer.
Not included Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their
entirety
Para B32
Paragraph 42D requires disclosures when part or all of the transferred
financial assets do not qualify for derecognition. Those disclosures
are required at each reporting date at which the entity continues to
recognise the transferred financial assets, regardless of when the
transfers occurred.
Not included Types of continuing involvement (paragraphs 42E–42H)
Para B33
Paragraphs 42E–42H require qualitative and quantitative disclosures
for each type of continuing involvement in derecognised financial
assets. An entity shall aggregate its continuing involvement into
types that are representative of the entity’s exposure to risks. For
example, an entity may aggregate its continuing involvement by type
of financial instrument (eg : guarantees or call options) or by type of
transfer (eg : factoring of receivables, securitisations and securities
lending).
Not included Maturity analysis for undiscounted cash outflows to repurchase
transferred assets (paragraph 42E(e))
Para B34
Paragraph 42E(e) requires an entity to disclose a maturity analysis of
the undiscounted cash outflows to repurchase derecognised financial
assets or other amounts payable to the transferee in respect of the
derecognised financial assets, showing the remaining contractual
maturities of the entity’s continuing involvement. This analysis
distinguishes cash flows that are required to be paid (eg: forward
contracts), cash flows that the entity may be required to pay (eg :
written put options) and cash flows that the entity might choose to
pay (eg : purchased call options).
Not included Para B35
An entity shall use its judgement to determine an appropriate number
of time bands in preparing the maturity analysis required by paragraph
42E(e). For example, an entity might determine that the following
maturity time bands are appropriate:
(a)  not later than one month;
(b) later than one month and not later than three months;

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
70A
(c) later than three months and not later than six months;
(d) later than six months and not later than one year;
(e) later than one year and not later than three years;
(f) later than three years and not later than five years; and
(g) more than five years.
Not included Para B36
If there is a range of possible maturities, the cash flows are included
on the basis of the earliest date on which the entity can be required
or is permitted to pay.
Not included Qualitative information (Paragraph 42E(f))
Para B37
The qualitative information required by paragraph 42E(f) includes a
description of the derecognised financial assets and the nature and
purpose of the continuing involvement retained after transferring
those assets. It also includes a description of the risks to which an
entity is exposed, including :
(a) a description of how the entity manages the risk inherent in its
continuing involvement in the derecognised financial assets.;
(b) whether the entity is required to bear losses before other parties,
and the ranking and amounts of losses borne by parties whose
interests rank lower than the entity’s interest in the asset (i.e.
its continuing involvement in the asset);
(c) a description of any triggers associated with obligations to
provide financial support or to repurchase a transferred financial
asset.
Not included Gain or loss on derecognition (Paragraph 42G(a))
Para B38
Paragraph 42G(a) requires an entity to disclose the gain or loss on
derecognition relating to financial assets in which the entity has
continuing involvement. The entity shall disclose if a gain or loss on
derecognition arose because the fair values of the components of
the previously recognised asset (i.e. the interest in the asset
derecognised and the interest retained by the entity) were different
from the fair value of the previously recognised asset as a whole. In
that situation, the entity shall also disclose whether the fair value
measurements included significant inputs that were not based on
observable market data, as described in Paragraph 27A.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
71A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 8-Operating Segments
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 8 Para 23 Para 23
An entity shall report a measure of profit or loss for each reportable
segment. An entity shall report a measure of total assets and liabilities
for each reportable segment if such amounts are regularly provided
to the chief operating decision maker. An entity shall also disclose
the following about each reportable segment if the specified amounts
are included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the
chief operating decision maker, or are otherwise regularly provided
to the chief operating decision maker, even if not included in that
measure of segment profit or loss:
(a) revenues from external customers;
(b) revenues from transactions with other operating segments of
the same entity;
(c) interest revenue;
(d) interest expense;
(e) depreciation and amortisation;
(f) material items of income and expense disclosed in accordance
with Paragraph 97 of LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial
Statements ;
(g) the entity’s interest in the profit or loss of associates and joint
ventures accounted for by the equity method;
(h) income tax expense or income; and
(i) material non-cash items other than depreciation and
amortisation.
Not included Supplementary information (Paragraph 42H)
Para B39
The disclosures required in paragraphs 42D–42G may not be sufficient
to meet the disclosure objectives in paragraph 42B. If this is the case,
the entity shall disclose whatever additional information is necessary
to meet the disclosure objectives. The entity shall decide, in the light
of its circumstances, how much additional information it needs to
provide to satisfy the information needs of users and how much
emphasis it places on different aspects of the additional information.
It is necessary to strike a balance between burdening financial
statements with excessive detail that may not assist users of financial
statements and obscuring information as a result of too much
aggregation.

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
72A
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
An entity shall report interest revenue separately from interest expense
for each reportable segment unless a majority of the segment’s
revenues are from interest and the chief operating decision maker
relies primarily on net interest revenue to assess the performance of
the segment and make decisions about resources to be allocated to
the segment. In that situation, an entity may report that segment’s
interest revenue net of its interest expense and disclose that it has
done so.
Para 34 Para 34
An entity shall provide information about the extent of its reliance
on its major customers. If revenues from transactions with a single
external customer amount to 10 per cent or more of an entity’s rev-
enues, the entity shall disclose that fact, the total amount of rev-
enues from each such customer, and the identity of the segment or
segments reporting the revenues. The entity need not disclose the
identity of a major customer or the amount of revenues that each
segment reports from that customer. For the purposes of this SLFRS,
a group of entities known to a reporting entity to be under common
control shall be considered a single customer. However, judgement
is required to assess whether a Government (including Government
agencies and similar bodies whether local, national or international)
and entities known to the reporting entity to be under the control of
that Government are considered a single customer. In assessing this,
the reporting entity shall consider the extent of economic integration
between those entities.
LKAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 1 Para 7 (d) & (f) The components of other comprehensive income include :—
(d) gains and losses from investments in equity instruments
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments;
(f) for particular liabilities designated as at fair value through profit
or loss, the amount of the change in fair value that is attributable
to changes in the liability’s credit risk (see Paragraph 5.7.7 of
SLFRS 9).
Para 69 (d) Current liabilities
An entity shall classify a liability as current when :—
(d) it does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of
the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period
(see Paragraph 73). Terms of a liability that could, at the option
of the counterparty, result in its settlement by the issue of
equity instruments do not affect its classification.
Para 123 (a) [deleted]

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
73A
LKAS 2 – Inventories
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 2 Para 2 (b) ( b) financial instruments (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments :
Presentation and SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments); and
LKAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 07 Para 16 Para 16
The separate disclosure of cash flows arising from investing activities
is important because the cash flows represent the extent to which
expenditures have been made for resources intended to generate
future income and cash flows. Only expenditures that result in a
recognised asset in the statement of financial position are eligible for
classification as investing activities. Examples of cash flows arising
from investing activities are :
(a) cash payments to acquire property, plant and equipment,
intangibles and other long-term assets. These payments include
those relating to capitalised development costs and
self-constructed property, plant and equipment;
(b) cash receipts from sales of property, plant and equipment,
intangibles and other long-term assets;
(c) cash payments to acquire equity or debt instruments of other
entities and interests in joint ventures (other than payments
for those instruments considered to be cash equivalents or
those held for dealing or trading purposes);
(d) cash receipts from sales of equity or debt instruments of other
entities and interests in joint ventures (other than receipts for
those instruments considered to be cash equivalents and those
held for dealing or trading purposes);
(e) cash advances and loans made to other parties (other than
advances and loans made by a financial institution);
(f) cash receipts from the repayment of advances and loans made
to other parties (other than advances and loans of a financial
institution);
(g) cash payments for futures contracts, forward contracts, option
contracts and swap contracts except when the contracts are
held for dealing or trading purposes, or the payments are
classified as financing activities; and
(h) cash receipts from futures contracts, forward contracts, option
contracts and swap contracts except when the contracts are
held for dealing or trading purposes, or the receipts are classified
as financing activities.
When a contract is accounted for as a hedge of an identifiable
position the cash flows of the contract are classified in the
same manner as the cash flows of the position being hedged.

<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
74A
LKAS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 8 Para 53 Para 53
Hindsight should not  be used when applying a new accounting
policy to, or correcting amounts for, a prior period, either in making
assumptions about what management’s intentions would have been
in a prior period or estimating the amounts recognised, measured or
disclosed in a prior period. For example, when an entity corrects a
prior period error in calculating its liability for employees’
accumulated sick leave in accordance with LKAS 19 Employee
Benefits , it disregards information about an unusually severe
influenza season during the next period that became available after
the financial statements for the prior period were authorised for
issue.  The fact that significant estimates are frequently required
when amending comparative information presented for prior periods
does not prevent reliable adjustment or correction of the comparative
information.
LKAS 12 – Income Tax
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 12 Not included Para 51B
If a deferred tax liability or deferred tax asset arises from a
non-depreciable asset measured using the revaluation model in
LKAS 16, the measurement of the deferred tax liability or deferred
tax asset shall reflect the tax consequences of recovering the
carrying amount of the non-depreciable asset through sale,
regardless of the basis of measuring the carrying amount of that
asset. Accordingly, if the tax law specifies a tax rate applicable to
the taxable amount derived from the sale of an asset that differs
from the tax rate applicable to the taxable amount derived from using
an asset, the former rate is applied in measuring the deferred tax
liability or asset related to a non-depreciable asset.
Not included Para 51C
If a deferred tax liability or asset arises from investment property
that is measured using the fair value model in LKAS 40, there is a
rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount of the investment
property will be recovered through sale. Accordingly, unless the
presumption is rebutted, the measurement of the deferred tax liability
or deferred tax asset shall reflect the tax consequences of recovering
the carrying amount of the investment property entirely through

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
75A
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
sale. This presumption is rebutted if the investment property is
depreciable and is held within a business model whose objective is
to consume substantially all of the economic benefits embodied in
the investment property over time, rather than through sale. If the
presumption is rebutted, the requirements of paragraphs 51 and 51A
shall be followed.
Example illustrating Paragraph 51C
An investment property has a cost of 100 and fair value of 150. It is
measured using the fair value model in IAS 40. It comprises land with
a cost of 40 and fair value of 60 and a building with a cost of 60 and
fair value of 90. The land has an unlimited useful life.
Cumulative depreciation of the building for tax purposes is 30.
Unrealised changes in the fair value of the investment property do
not affect taxable profit. If the investment property is sold for more
than cost, the reversal of the cumulative tax depreciation of 30 will be
included in taxable profit and taxed at an ordinary tax rate of 30%. For
sales proceeds in excess of cost, tax law specifies tax rates of 25% for
assets held for less than two years and 20% for assets held for two
years or more.
Because the investment property is measured using the fair value
model in IAS 40, there is a rebuttable presumption that the entity
will recover the carrying amount of the investment property entirely
through sale. If that presumption is not rebutted, the deferred tax
reflects the tax consequences of recovering the carrying amount
entirely through sale, even if the entity expects to earn rental income
from the property before sale.
The tax base of the land if it is sold is 40 and there is a taxable
temporary difference of 20 (60 – 40). The tax base of the building if
it is sold is 30 (60 – 30) and there is a taxable temporary difference
of 60 (90 – 30). As a result, the total taxable t emporary difference
relating to the investment property is 80 (20 + 60).
In accordance with paragraph 47, the tax rate is the rate expected
to apply to the period when the investment property is realised.
Thus, the resulting deferred tax liability is computed as follows, if
the entity expects to sell the property after holding it for more than
two years:
Taxable Tax Rate Deferred Tax
Temporary Liability
Difference
Cumulative tax 30 30% 9
depreciation
Proceeds in excess
of cost 50 20% 10
Total 80 19

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
76A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
If the entity expects to sell the property after holding it for less
than two years, the above computation would be amended to apply
a tax rate of 25%, rather than 20%, to the proceeds in excess of
cost.
If, instead, the entity holds the building within a business model
whose objective is to consume substantially all of the economic
benefits embodied in the building over time, rather than through
sale, this presumption would be rebutted for the building. However,
the land is not depreciable. Therefore the presumption of recovery
through sale would not be rebutted for the land. It follows that the
deferred tax liability would reflect the tax consequences of
recovering the carrying amount of the building through use and
the carrying amount of the land through sale.
The tax base of the building if it is used is 30 (60 – 30) and there
is a taxable temporary difference of 60 (90 – 30),resulting in a
deferred tax liability of 18 (60 at 30%).
The tax base of the land if it is sold is 40 and there is a taxable
temporary difference of 20 (60 – 40), resulting in a deferred tax
liability of 4 (20 at 20%).
As a result, if the presumption of recovery through sale is rebutted
for the building, the deferred tax liability relating to the investment
property is 22 (18 + 4).
Not included Para 51D
The rebuttable presumption in paragraph 51C also applies when a
deferred tax liability or a deferred tax asset arises from measuring
investment property in a business combination if the entity will use
the fair value model when subsequently measuring that investment
property.
Not included Para 51E
Paragraphs 51B–51D do not change the requirements to apply the
principles in paragraphs 24–33 (deductible temporary differences)
and paragraphs 34–36 (unused tax losses and unused tax credits)
of this Standard when recognising and measuring deferred tax
assets.
LKAS 17 – Leases
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 17 Para 14 [Deleted]
Para 15 [Deleted]
Not included Para 15A
When a lease includes both land and buildings elements, an entity
assesses the classification of each element as a finance or an

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
77A
operating lease separately in accordance with paragraphs 7–13. In
determining whether the land element is an operating or a finance
lease, an important consideration is that land normally has an
indefinite economic life.
Para 68A An entity shall reassess the classification of land elements of unex-
pired leases at the date it adopts the amendments referred to in
paragraph 69A on the basis of information existing at the inception
of those leases. It shall recognise a lease newly classified as a
finance lease retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Account-
ing Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors . How-
ever, if an entity does not have the information necessary to apply
the amendments retrospectively, it shall:
(a) apply the amendments to those leases on the basis of the facts
and circumstances existing on the date it adopts the amend-
ments; and
(b) recognise the asset and liability related to a land lease newly
classified as a finance lease at their fair values on that date; any
difference between those fair values is recognised in retained
earnings.
LKAS 18-Revenue
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 18 Para 6 (d) ( d) changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial
liabilities or their disposal (see SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments);
Para 11 Para 11
In most cases, the consideration is in the form of cash or cash
equivalents and the amount of revenue is the amount of cash or cash
equivalents received or receivable. However, when the inflow of cash
or cash equivalents is deferred, the fair value of the consideration
may be less than the nominal amount of cash received or receivable.
For example, an entity may provide interest-free credit to the buyer or
accept a note receivable bearing a below-market interest rate from the
buyer as consideration for the sale of goods. When the arrangement
effectively constitutes a financing transaction, the fair value of the
consideration is determined by discounting all future receipts using
an imputed rate of interest. The imputed rate of interest is the more
clearly determinable of either:
(a) the prevailing rate for a similar instrument of an issuer with a
similar credit rating; or
(b) a rate of interest that discounts the nominal amount of the
instrument to the current cash sales price of the goods or
services.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal amount of the
consideration is recognised as interest revenue in accordance with
paragraphs 29 and 30 and in accordance with SLFRS 9.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
78A
LKAS 19 - Employee Benefits
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 19 Para 57 Para 57
This Standard encourages, but does not require, an entity to involve
a qualified actuary in the measurement of all material post-employment
benefit obligations. For practical reasons, an entity may request a
qualified actuary to carry out a detailed valuation of the obligation
before the end of the reporting period. Nevertheless, the results of
that valuation are updated for any material transactions and other
material changes in circumstances (including changes in market prices
and interest rates) up to the end of the reporting period.
Para 57 A [Deleted]
Para 58 B Para 58 B
Paragraph 58A applies to an entity only if it has, at the beginning or
end of the accounting period, a surplus* in a defined benefit plan
and cannot, based on the current terms of the plan, recover that
surplus fully through refunds or reductions in future contributions.
In such cases, past service cost and actuarial losses that arise in the
period, the recognition of which is deferred under paragraph 54, will
increase the amount specified in paragraph 58(b)(i). If that increase
is not offset by an equal decrease in the present value of economic
benefits that qualify for recognition under paragraph 58(b)(ii), there
will be an increase in the net total specified by paragraph 58(b) and,
hence, a recognised gain. Paragraph 58A prohibits the recognition of
a gain in these circumstances. The opposite effect arises with actuarial
gains that arise in the period, the recognition of which is deferred
under paragraph 54, to the extent that the actuarial gains reduce
cumulative unrecognised actuarial losses. Paragraph 58A prohibits
the recognition of a loss in these circumstances. For examples of the
application of this paragraph, see part C of the implementation
guidance accompanying this Standard.
*A surplus is an excess of the fair value of the plan assets over the present
value of the defined benefit obligation.
Para 82 Para 82
Interest cost is computed by multiplying the discount rate as
determined at the start of the period by the present value of the
defined benefit obligation throughout that period, taking account of
any material changes in the obligation. The present value of the
obligation will differ from the liability recognised in the statement of
financial position because the liability is recognised after deducting
the fair value of any plan assets and because some actuarial gains
and losses, and some past service cost, are not recognised
immediately. [Part A of the implementation guidance accompanying
this Standard illustrates the computation of interest cost, among
other things.]

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
79A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
Para 95 Para 95
In the long term, actuarial gains and losses may offset one another.
Therefore, estimates of post-employment benefit obligations may be
viewed as a range (or ‘corridor’) around the best estimate. An entity
is permitted, but not required, to recognise actuarial gains and losses
that fall within that range. This Standard requires an entity to
recognise, as a minimum, a specified portion of the actuarial gains
and losses that fall outside a ‘corridor’ of plus or minus 10%. [Part A
of the implementation guidance accompanying this Standard
illustrates the treatment of actuarial gains and losses, among other
things.] The Standard also permits systematic methods of faster
recognition, provided that those methods satisfy the conditions set
out in paragraph 93. Such permitted methods include, for example,
immediate recognition of all actuarial gains and losses, both within
and outside the ‘corridor’. Paragraph 155(b)(iii) explains the need to
consider any unrecognised part of the transitional liability in
accounting for subsequent actuarial gains.
Appendix A – C Moved to Implementation Guidance accompanying this Standard.
Appendix D – E Deleted
LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and
Disclosure of Government Assistance
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 20 Para 10A Para 10A
The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest is
treated as a government grant. The loan shall be recognised and
measured in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The
benefit of the below-market rate of interest shall be measured as the
difference between the initial carrying value of the loan determined
in accordance with SLFRS 9 and the proceeds received. The benefit
is accounted for in accordance with this Standard. The entity shall
consider the conditions and obligations that have been, or must be,
met when identifying the costs for which the benefit of the loan is
intended to compensate.
LKAS 21 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 21 Para 3 Para 3
This Standard shall be applied:
(a) in accounting for transactions and balances in foreign
currencies, except for those derivative transactions and

<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
80A
balances that are within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments;
(b) in translating the results and financial position of foreign
operations that are included in the financial statements of the
entity by consolidation, proportionate consolidation or the
equity method; and
(c) in translating an entity’s results and financial position into a
presentation currency.
Para 4 Para 4
SLFRS 9 applies to many foreign currency derivatives and,
accordingly, these are excluded from the scope of this Standard.
However, those foreign currency derivatives that are not within the
scope of SLFRS 9 (eg some foreign currency derivatives that are
embedded in other contracts) are within the scope of this Standard.
In addition, this Standard applies when an entity translates amounts
relating to derivatives from its functional currency to its presentation
currency.
Para 52 Para 52
An entity shall disclose :
(a) the amount of exchange differences recognised in profit or
loss except for those arising on financial instruments
measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with SLFRS 9; and
(b) net exchange differences recognised in other comprehensive
income and accumulated in a separate component of equity,
and a reconciliation of the amount of such exchange
differences at the beginning and end of the period.
LKAS 24 – Related Part Transactions
Standard Existing R eplaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
Para 1 Para 1
The objective of this Standard is to ensure that an entity’s financial
statements contain the disclosures necessary to draw attention to
the possibility that its financial position and profit or loss may have
been affected by the existence of related parties and by transactions
and outstanding balances, including commitments, with such parties.
Para 2 Para 2
This Standard shall be applied in:
(a) identifying related party relationships and transactions;
(b) identifying outstanding balances, including commitments,
between an entity and its related parties;
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
81A
(c) identifying the circumstances in which disclosure of the items
in (a) and
(b) Is required; and
(d) determining the disclosures to be made about those items.
Para 3 Para 3
This Standard requires disclosure of related party relationships,
transactions and outstanding balances, including commitments, in
the consolidated and separate financial statements of a parent,
venturer or investor presented in accordance with LKAS 27
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.  This Standard
also applies to individual financial statements.
Para 5 Para 5
Related party relationships are a normal feature of commerce and
business. For example, entities frequently carry on parts of their
activities through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. In those
circumstances, the entity has the ability to affect the financial and
operating policies of the investee through the presence of control,
joint control or significant influence.
Para 8 Para 8
For these reasons, knowledge of an entity’s transactions, outstanding
balances, including commitments, and relationships with related
parties may affect assessments of its operations by users of financial
statements, including assessments of the risks and opportunities
facing the entity.
Para 9 Para 9
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified:
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that
is preparing its financial statements (in this Standard referred to as
the ‘reporting entity’).
(a)  A person or a close member of that person’s family is related
to a reporting entity if that person:
(i) has control or joint control over the reporting entity;
(ii) has significant influence over the reporting entity; or
(iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the
reporting entity or of a parent of the reporting entity.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
6 - PG 001326

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
82A
(b) An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of the following
conditions applies:
(i) The entity and the reporting entity are members of the
same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary
and fellow subsidiary is related to the others).
(ii) One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other
entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a
group of which the other entity is a member).
(iii) Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv) One entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the
other entity is an associate of the third entity.
(v) The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the
benefit of employees of either the reporting entity or
an entity related to the reporting entity. If the reporting
entity is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers
are also related to the reporting entity.
(vi) The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person
identified in (a).
(vii) A person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence
over the entity or is a member of the key management
personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity).
A related party transaction is a transfer of resources, services or
obligations between a reporting entity and a related party, regardless
of whether a price is charged.
Close members of the family of a person are those family members
who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person
in their dealings with the entity and include:
(a) that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner;
(b) children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and
(c) dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or domestic
partner.
Compensation includes all employee benefits (as defined in IAS 19
Employee Benefits) including employee benefits to which IFRS 2
Share-based Payment applies. Employee benefits are all forms of
consideration paid, payable or provided by the entity, or on behalf of
the entity, in exchange for services rendered to the entity. It also
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
83A
includes such consideration paid on behalf of a parent of the entity
in respect of the entity. Compensation includes:
(a) short-term employee benefits, such as wages, salaries and
social security contributions, paid annual leave and paid sick
leave, profit-sharing and bonuses (if payable within twelve
months of the end of the period) and non-monetary benefits
(such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised
goods or services) for current employees;
(b) post-employment benefits such as pensions, other retirement
benefits, post-employment life insurance and post-employment
medical care;
(c) other long-term employee benefits, including long-service leave
or sabbatical leave, jubilee or other long-service benefits, long-
term disability benefits and, if they are not payable wholly
within twelve months after the end of the period, profit-sharing,
bonuses and deferred compensation;
(d) termination benefits; and
(e) share-based payment.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies
of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an
economic activity.
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities
of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any director (whether
executive or otherwise) of that entity.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and
operating policy decisions of an entity, but is not control over those
policies. Significant influence may be gained by share ownership,
statute or agreement.
Government refers to government, government agencies and similar
bodies whether local, national or international.
A government-related entity is an entity that is controlled, jointly
controlled or significantly influenced by a government.
Para 11 Para11
In the context of this Standard, the following are not related parties :
(a) two entities simply because they have a director or other
member of key management personnel in common or because a
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
84A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
member of key management personnel of one entity has
significant influence over the other entity.
(b) two venturers simply because they share joint control over a
joint venture.
(c) (i) providers of finance,
(ii) trade unions,
(iii) public utilities, and
(iv) departments and agencies of a government that does not
control, jointly control or significantly influence the
reporting entity,
simply by virtue of their normal dealings with an entity (even though
they may affect the freedom of action of an entity or participate in its
decision-making process).
(d) a customer, supplier, franchisor, distributor or general agent
with whom an entity transacts a significant volume of business,
simply by virtue of the resulting economic dependence.
Para 12 - 22 Para 12
In the definition of a related party, an associate includes subsidiaries
of the associate and a joint venture includes subsidiaries of the joint
venture. Therefore, for example, an associate’s subsidiary and the
investor that has significant influence over the associate are related
to each other.
Para 13
Relationships between a parent and its subsidiaries shall be disclosed
irrespective of whether there have been transactions between them.
An entity shall disclose the name of its parent and, if different, the
ultimate controlling party. If neither the entity’s parent nor the
ultimate controlling party produces consolidated financial
statements available for public use, the name of the next most senior
parent that does so shall also be disclosed.
Para 14
To enable users of financial statements to form a view about the
effects of related party relationships on an entity, it is appropriate to
disclose the related party relationship when control exists, irrespective
of whether there have been transactions between the related parties.
Para 15
The requirement to disclose related party relationships between a
parent and its subsidiaries is in addition to the disclosure requirements

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
85A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
in IAS 27, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in
Joint Ventures.
Para 16
Paragraph 13 refers to the next most senior parent. This is the first
parent in the group above the immediate parent that produces
consolidated financial statements available for public use.
Para 17
An entity shall disclose key management personnel compensation
in total and for each of the following categories :
(a) short-term employee benefits;
(b) post-employment benefits;
(c) other long-term benefits;
(d) termination benefits; and
(e) share-based payment.
Para 18
If an entity has had related party transactions during the periods
covered by the financial statements, it shall disclose the nature of
the related party relationship as well as information about those
transactions and outstanding balances, including commitments,
necessary for users to understand the potential effect of the
relationship on the financial statements. These disclosure
requirements are in addition to those in paragraph 17. At a minimum,
disclosures shall include :
(a) the amount of the transactions;
(b) the amount of outstanding balances, including commitments,
and :
(i) their terms and conditions, including whether they are
secured, and the nature of the consideration to be
provided in settlement; and
(ii) details of any guarantees given or   received;
(c) provisions for doubtful debts related to the amount of
outstanding balances; and
(d) the expense recognised during the period in respect of bad or
doubtful debts due from related parties.
7 - PG 001326

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
86A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
Para 19
The disclosures required by paragraph 18 shall be made separately
for each of the following categories :
(a) the parent;
(b) entities with joint control or significant influence over the
entity;
(c) subsidiaries;
(d) associates;
(e) joint ventures in which the entity is a venturer;
(f) key management personnel of the entity or its parent; and
(g) other related parties.
Para 20
The classification of amounts payable to, and receivable from,
related parties in the different categories as required in paragraph
19 is an extension of the disclosure requirement in IAS 1
Presentation of Financial Statements for information to be
presented either in the statement of financial position or in the
notes. The categories are extended to provide a more comprehensive
analysis of related party balances and apply to related party
transactions.
Para 21
The following are examples of transactions that are disclosed if
they are with a  related party :
(a) purchases or sales of goods (finished or unfinished);
(b) purchases or sales of property and other assets;
(c) rendering or receiving of services;
(d) leases;
(e) transfers of research and development;
(f) transfers under licence agreements;
(g) transfers under finance arrangements (including loans and
equity contributions in cash or in kind);

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
87A
 (h) provision of guarantees or collateral;
(i) commitments to do something if a particular event occurs or
does not occur in the future, including executory contracts*
(recognised and unrecognised); and
(j) settlement of liabilities on behalf of the entity or by the entity
on behalf of that related party.
* IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
defines executor contracts as contracts under which neither party
has performed any of its obligations or both parties have partially
performed their obligation to an equal extent.
Para 22
Participation by a parent or subsidiary in a defined benefit plan that
shares risks between group entities is a transaction between related
parties (see paragraph 34B of IAS 19).
Para 23
Disclosures that related party transactions were made on terms
equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions are made
only if such terms can be substantiated.
Para 24
Items of a similar nature may be disclosed in aggregate except when
separate disclosure is necessary for an understanding of the effects
of related party transactions on the financial statements of the entity.
 Government-related entities
Para 25
A reporting entity is exempt from the disclosure requirements of
paragraph 18 in relation to related party transactions and
outstanding balances, including commitments, with :
(a) a government that has control, joint control or significant
influence over the reporting entity; and
(b) another entity that is a related party because the same
government has control, joint control or significant influence
over both the reporting entity and the other entity.
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
88A
Para 26
If a reporting entity applies the exemption in paragraph 25, it shall
disclose the following about the transactions and related outstanding
balances referred to in paragraph 25 :
(a) the name of the government and the nature of its relationship
with the reporting entity (ie control, joint control or significant
influence);
(b) the following information in sufficient detail to enable users
of the entity’s financial statements to understand the effect of
related party transactions on its financial statements:
(i) the nature and amount of each individually significant
transaction; and
(ii) for other transactions that are collectively, but not
individually, significant, a qualitative or quantitative
indication of their extent. Types of transactions include
those listed in paragraph 21.
Para 27
In using its judgement to determine the level of detail to be disclosed
in accordance with the requirements in paragraph 26(b), the reporting
entity shall consider the closeness of the related party relationship
and other factors relevant in establishing the level of significance of
the transaction such as whether it is :
(a) significant in terms of size;
(b) carried out on non-market terms;
(c) outside normal day-to-day business operations, such as the
purchase and sale of businesses;
(d) disclosed to regulatory or supervisory authorities;
(e) reported to senior management;
(f) subject to shareholder approval.
LKAS 27- Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 27 Para 35 Para 35
If a parent loses control of a subsidiary, the parent shall account for
all amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to
that subsidiary on the same basis as would be required if the parent
had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if
a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
89A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related
assets or liabilities, the parent reclassifies the gain or loss from equity
to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when it loses control
of the subsidiary. For example, if a subsidiary has cumulative exchange
differences relating to a foreign operation and the parent loses control
of the subsidiary, the parent shall reclassify to profit or loss the gain
or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income in
relation to the foreign operation. Similarly, if a revaluation surplus
previously recognised in other comprehensive income would be
transferred directly to retained earnings on the disposal of the asset,
the parent transfers the revaluation surplus directly to retained
earnings when it loses control of the subsidiary.
Para 37 Para 37
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at
the date when control is lost shall be regarded as the fair value on
initial recognition of a financial asset in accordance with SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments or, when appropriate, the cost on initial
recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled
entity.
Para 38 Para 38
When an entity prepares separate financial statements, it shall
account for investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities
and associates either:
(a) at cost, or
(b) in accordance with SLFRS 9.
The entity shall apply the same accounting for each category of
investments. Investments accounted for at cost shall be accounted
for in accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale
and Discontinued Operations when they are classified as held for
sale (or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for
sale). The accounting for investments in accordance with SLFRS 9
is not changed in such circumstances.
Para 40 Para 40
Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates that are
accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 in the consolidated
financial statements shall be accounted for in the same way in the
investor’s separate financial statements.

<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
90A
LKAS 28 - Investments in Associates
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 28 Para 1 Para 1
This Standard shall be applied in accounting for investments in
associates. However, it does not apply to investments in associates
held by :
(a) venture capital organisations, or
(b) mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities including
investment-linked insurance funds
that are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. An entity shall measure such
investments at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with
SLFRS 9. An entity holding such an investment shall make the
disclosures required by paragraph 37(f).
Para 18 Para 18
An investor shall discontinue the use of the equity method from the
date when it ceases to have significant influence over an associate
and shall account for the investment in accordance with SLFRS 9
from that date, provided the associate does not become a subsidiary
or a joint venture as defined in LKAS 31. On the loss of significant
influence, the investor shall measure at fair value any investment
the investor retains in the former associate. The investor shall
recognise in profit or loss any difference between:
(a) the fair value of any retained investment and any proceeds
from disposing of the part interest in the associate; and
(b) the carrying amount of the investment at the date when
significant influence is lost.
Para 19 Para 19
When an investment ceases to be an associate and is accounted for
in accordance with SLFRS 9, the fair value of the investment at the
date when it ceases to be an associate shall be regarded as its fair
value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with
SLFRS 9.
Para 19 A Para 19A
If an investor loses significant influence over an associate, the
investor shall account for all amounts recognised in other
comprehensive income in relation to that associate on the same basis
as would be required if the associate had directly disposed of the
related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously
recognised in other comprehensive income by an associate would
be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
91A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
or liabilities, the investor reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to
profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when it loses
significant influence over the associate. For example, if an associate
has cumulative exchange differences relating to a foreign operation
and the investor loses significant influence over the associate, the
investor shall reclassify to profit or loss the gain or loss previously
recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the foreign
operation. If an investor’s ownership interest in an associate is
reduced, but the investment continues to be an associate, the investor
shall reclassify to profit or loss only a proportionate amount of the
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income.
Para 33 Para 33
Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an
investment in an associate is not separately recognised, it is not
tested for impairment separately by applying the requirements for
impairment testing goodwill in LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets. Instead,
the entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment
in accordance with LKAS 36 as a single asset, by comparing its
recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs
to sell) with its carrying amount, whenever application of the
requirements in LKAS 39 indicates that the investment may be
impaired. An impairment loss recognised in those circumstances is
not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms part of the
carrying amount of the investment in the associate. Accordingly, any
reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with
LKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment
subsequently increases. In determining the value in use of the
investment, an entity estimates:
(a) its share of the present value of the estimated future cash flows
expected to be generated by the associate, including the cash
flows from the operations of the associate and the proceeds on
the ultimate disposal of the investment; or
(b) the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected
to arise from dividends to be received from the investment and
from its ultimate disposal.Under appropriate assumptions, both
methods give the same result.
LKAS 31 - Interests in Joint Ventures
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 31 Para 1 Para 1
This Standard shall be applied in accounting for interests in joint
ventures and the reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income

<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
92A
and expenses in the financial statements of venturers and investors,
regardless of the structures or forms under which the joint venture
activities take place. However, it does not apply to venturers’
interests in jointly controlled entities held by:
(a) venture capital organisations, or
(b) mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities including
investment-linked insurance funds
that are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments . An entity shall measure
such investments at fair value through profit or loss in accordance
with SLFRS 9. A venturer holding such an interest shall make the
disclosures required by Paragraphs 55 and 56.
Para 45 Para 45
When an investor ceases to have joint control over an entity, it shall
account for any remaining investment in accordance with SLFRS
9 from that date, provided that the former jointly controlled entity
does not become a subsidiary or associate.From the date when a
jointly controlled entity becomes a subsidiary of an investor, the
investor shall account for its interest in accordance with LKAS 27
and SLFRS 3 Business Combinations. From the date when a jointly
controlled entity becomes an associate of an investor, the investor
shall account for its interest in accordance with LKAS 28. On the
loss of joint control, the investor shall measure at fair value any
investment the investor retains in the former jointly controlled
entity. The investor shall recognise in profit or loss any difference
between :
(a) the fair value of any retained investment and any proceeds
from disposing of the part interest in the jointly controlled
entity; and
(b) the carrying amount of the investment at the date when joint
control is lost.
Para 45A Para 45A
When an investment ceases to be a jointly controlled entity and is
accounted for in  accordance with SLFRS 9, the fair value of the
investment when it ceases to be a jointly controlled entity shall be
regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset
in accordance with SLFRS 9.
Para 45B Para 45B
If an investor loses joint control of an entity, the investor shall
account for all amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
in relation to that entity on the same basis as would be required if
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
93A
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
the jointly controlled entity had directly disposed of the related assets
or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognised in
other comprehensive income would be reclassified to profit or loss
on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the investor
reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a
reclassification adjustment) when the investor loses joint control of
the entity. For example, if a jointly controlled entity has cumulative
exchange differences relating to a foreign operation and the investor
loses joint control of the entity, the investor shall reclassify to profit
or loss the gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive
income in relation to the foreign operation. If an investor’s ownership
interest in a jointly controlled entity is reduced, but the investment
continues to be a jointly controlled entity, the investor shall reclassify
to profit or loss only a proportionate amount of the gain or loss
previously recognised in other comprehensive income.
Para 51 Para 51
An investor in a joint venture that does not have joint control shall
account for that investment in accordance with SLFRS 9 or, if it has
significant influence in the joint venture, in accordance with LKAS
28.
LKAS 32 – Financial Instrument: Presentation
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 32 Para 3 Para 3
The principles in this Standard complement the principles for
recognising and measuring financial assets and financial liabilities in
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, and for disclosing information about
them in SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Para 4 Para 4
Para 4 (a) This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial
instruments except:
Para 4 (a)
those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are
accounted for in accordance with LKAS 27 Consolidated and
Separate Financial Statements, LKAS 28 Investments in Associates
or LKAS 31 Interests in Joint V entures. However, in some cases,
LKAS 27, LKAS 28 or LKAS 31 permits an entity to account for an
interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9;
in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements of this Standard.
Entities shall also apply this Standard to all derivatives linked to
interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
Para 4 (d) Para 4 (d)
Insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
However, this Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded in
8 - PG 001326

<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
94A
insurance contracts if SLFRS 9 requires the entity to account for
them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this Standard to
financial guarantee contracts if the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in
recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply SLFRS 4
if the issuer elects, in accordance with Paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4,
to apply SLFRS 4 in recognising and measuring them.
Para 4 (e) Para 4 (e)
Financial instruments that are within the scope of SLFRS 4 because
they contain a discretionary participation feature. The issuer of
these instruments is exempt from applying to these features
paragraphs 15–32 and AG25–AG35 of this Standard regarding the
distinction between financial liabilities and equity instruments.
However, these instruments are subject to all other requirements of
this Standard. Furthermore, this Standard applies to derivatives
that are embedded in these instruments (see SLFRS 9).
Para 11 (b) (ii) A financial liability is any liability that is:
(b)   (ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity
instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or
warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own
equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency
are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights,
options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners
of the same class of its own non-derivative equity
instruments. Also, for these purposes the entity’s own
equity instruments do not include puttable financial
instruments that are classified as equity instruments
in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B,
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets
of the entity only on liquidation and are classified as
equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C
and 16D, or instruments that are contracts for the future
receipt or delivery of the entity’s own equity instruments.
Para 12 Para 12
The following terms are defined in Appendix A of SLFRS 9 or
paragraph 9 of LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement and are used in this Standard with the meaning
specified in LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9. :-
• amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability;
• derecognition;
• derivative;
• effective interest method;
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
95A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
• financial guarantee contract;
• financial liability at fair value through profit or loss;
• firm commitment;
• forecast transaction;
• hedge effectiveness;
• hedged item;
• hedging instrument;
• held for trading;
• regular way purchase or sale;
• transaction costs.
Para 16 (b) Para 16  (b)
(b) If the instrument will or may be settled in the issuer’s own
equity instruments, it is :
(i) a non-derivative that includes no contractual obligation
for the issuer to deliver a variable number of its own
equity instruments; or
(ii) a derivative that will be settled only by the issuer
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or another financial
asset for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to acquire a
fixed number of the entity’s own equity instruments for a
fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if
the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata
to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own
non-derivative equity instruments. Also, for these
purposes the issuer’s own equity instruments do not
include instruments that have all the features and meet
the conditions described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or
paragraphs 16C and 16D, or instruments that are contracts
for the future receipt or delivery of the issuer’s own equity
instruments.
Para 23 Para 23
With the exception of the circumstances described in Paragraphs
16A and 16B or Paragraphs 16C and 16D, a contract that contains an
obligation for an entity to purchase its own equity instruments for
cash or another financial asset gives rise to a financial liability for the
present value of the redemption amount (for example, for the present

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
96A
value of the forward repurchase price, option exercise price or other
redemption amount). This is the case even if the contract itself is an
equity instrument. One example is an entity’s obligation under a
forward contract to purchase its own equity instruments for cash.
When the financial liability is recognised initially under SLFRS 9, its
fair value (the present value of the redemption amount) is reclassified
from equity. Subsequently, the financial liability is measured in
accordance with SLFRS 9. If the contract expires without delivery,
the carrying amount of the financial liability is reclassified to equity.
An entity’s contractual obligation to purchase its own equity
instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of
the redemption amount even if the obligation to purchase is
conditional on the counterparty exercising a right to redeem ( eg.- a
written put option that gives the counterparty the right to sell an
entity’s own equity instruments to the entity for a fixed price).
Para 31 Para 31
SLFRS 9 deals with the measurement of financial assets and financial
liabilities. Equity instruments are instruments that evidence a residual
interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Therefore, when the initial carrying amount of a compound financial
instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the
equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting
from the fair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately
determined for the liability component. The value of any derivative
features (such as a call option) embedded in the compound financial
instrument other than the equity component (such as an equity
conversion option) is included in the liability component. The sum
of the carrying amounts assigned to the liability and equity
components on initial recognition is always equal to the fair value
that would be ascribed to the instrument as a whole. No gain or loss
arises from initially recognising the components of the instrument
separately.
Para 42 Para 42 (b)
(b) intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset
and settle the liability simultaneously.
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify
for derecognition, the entity shall not offset the transferred asset
and the associated liability (see SLFRS 9, Paragraph 3.2.22).
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 34-Interim Financial Reporting
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 34 Paras 15 & 17 Para 15
An entity shall include in its interim financial report an explanation of
events and transactions that are significant to an understanding of

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
97A
the changes in financial position and performance of the entity since
the end of the last annual reporting period. Information disclosed in
relation to those events and transactions shall update the relevant
information presented in the most recent annual financial report.
Para 15A
A user of an entity’s interim financial report will have access to the
most recent annual financial report of that entity. Therefore, it is
unnecessary for the notes to an interim financial report to provide
relatively insignificant updates to the information that was reported
in the notes in the most recent annual financial report.
Para 15 B
The following is a list of events and transactions for which disclosures
would be required if they are significant: the list is not exhaustive.
(a) the write-down of inventories to net realisable value and the
reversal of such a write-down;
(b) recognition of a loss from the impairment of financial assets,
property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, or other
assets, and the reversal of such an impairment loss;
(c) the reversal of any provisions for the costs of restructuring;
(d) acquisitions and disposals of items of property, plant and
equipment;
(e) commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment;
(f) litigation settlements;
(g) corrections of prior period errors;
(h) changes in the business or economic circumstances that affect
the fair value of the entity’s financial assets and financial
liabilities, whether those assets or liabilities are recognised at
fair value or amortised cost;
(i) any loan default or breach of a loan agreement that has
not been remedied on or before the end of the reporting
period;
(j) related party transactions;
(k) transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy used in
measuring the fair value of financial instruments;
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
98A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
(l) changes in the classification of financial assets as a result of a
change in the purpose or use of those assets; and
(m) changes in contingent liabilities or contingent assets.
Para 15
Individual SLFRSs provide guidance regarding disclosure
requirements for many of the items listed in paragraph 15B. When an
event or transaction is significant to an understanding of the changes
in an entity’s financial position or performance since the last annual
reporting period, its interim financial report should provide an
explanation of and an update to the relevant information included in
the financial statements of the last annual reporting period.
Para 16 Para 16A
Other disclosures
In addition to disclosing significant events and transactions in
accordance with paragraphs 15–15C, an entity shall include the
following information, in the notes to its interim financial
statements, if not disclosed elsewhere in the interim financial report.
The information shall normally be reported on a financial year-to-
date basis.
(a) a statement that the same accounting policies and methods of
computation are followed in the interim financial statements
as compared with the most recent annual financial statements
or, if those policies or methods have been changed, a description
of the nature and effect of the change.
(b) explanatory comments about the seasonality or cyclicality of
interim operations.
(c) the nature and amount of items affecting assets, liabilities,
equity, net income or cash flows that are unusual because of
their nature, size or incidence.
(d) the nature and amount of changes in estimates of amounts
reported in prior interim periods of the current financial year
or changes in estimates of amounts reported in prior financial
years.
(e) issues, repurchases and repayments of debt and equity
securities.
(f) dividends paid (aggregate or per share) separately for
ordinary shares and other shares.

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
99A
(g) the following segment information (disclosure of segment
information is required in an entity’s interim financial report
only if SLFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that entity to
disclose segment information in its annual financial
statements):
(i) revenues from external customers, if included in the
measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief
operating decision maker or otherwise regularly
provided to the chief operating decision maker.
(ii) intersegment revenues, if included in the measure of
segment profit or loss reviewed by the chief operating
decision maker or otherwise regularly provided to the
chief operating decision maker.
(iii) a measure of segment profit or loss
(iv) total assets for which there has been a material change
from the amount disclosed in the last annual financial
statements.
(v) a description of differences from the last annual
financial statements in the basis of segmentation or in
the basis of measurement of segment profit or loss.
(vi) a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’
measures of profit or loss to the entity’s profit or loss
before tax expense (tax income) and discontinued
operations. However, if an entity allocates to reportable
segments items such as tax expense (tax income), the
entity may reconcile the total of the segments’ measures
of profit or loss to profit or loss after those items.
Material reconciling items shall be separately identified
and described in that reconciliation.
(h) events after the interim period that have not been reflected in
the financial statements for the interim period.
(i) the effect of changes in the composition of the entity
during the interim period, including business
combinations, obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries
and long-term investments, restructurings, and
discontinued operations. In the case of business
combinations, the entity shall disclose the information
required by SLFRS 3 Business Combinations
Para 18 Deleted
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
100A
Para 22 Para 22
Part A of the illustrative examples accompanying this Standard
illustrates the periods required to be presented by an entity that
reports half-yearly and an entity that reports quarterly.
Para 27 Para 27
IAS 8 requires disclosure of the nature and (if practicable) the amount
of a change in estimate that either has a material effect in the current
period or is expected to have a material effect in subsequent periods.
Paragraph 16A(d) of this Standard requires similar disclosure in an
interim financial report. Examples include changes in estimate in the
final interim period relating to inventory write-downs, restructurings,
or impairment losses that were reported in an earlier interim period of
the financial year. The disclosure required by the preceding paragraph
is consistent with the IAS 8 requirement and is intended to be narrow
in scope—relating only to the change in estimate. An entity is not
required to include additional interim period financial information in
its annual financial statements.
Para 35 Para 35
An entity that reports half-yearly uses information available by mid-
year or shortly thereafter in making the measurements in its financial
statements for the first six-month period and information available by
year-end or shortly thereafter for the twelve-month period. The twelve-
month measurements will reflect possible changes in estimates of
amounts reported for the first six-month period. The amounts reported
in the interim financial report for the first six-month period are not
retrospectively adjusted. Paragraphs 16A(d) and 26 require, however,
that the nature and amount of any significant changes in estimates
be disclosed.
Para 40 Para 40
Part B of the illustrative examples accompanying this Standard
provides examples of applying the general recognition and
measurement principles set out in paragraphs 28–39.
Para 42 Para 42
Part C of the illustrative examples accompanying this Standard
provides examples of the use of estimates in interim periods
Appendix Moved to Implementation Guidance accompanying this Standard
A-C
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
101A
LKAS 36 - Impairment of Assets
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 36 Para 2 (e) (e) financial assets that are within the scope of SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments;
Para 5 Para 5
This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of
SLFRS 9, investment property measured at fair value in accordance
with LKAS 40, or biological assets related to agricultural activity
measured at fair value less costs to sell in accordance with LKAS 41.
However, this Standard applies to assets that are carried at revalued
amount (ie fair value) in accordance with other SLFRSs, such as the
revaluation model in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment .
Identifying whether a revalued asset may be impaired depends on
the basis used to determine fair value :
(a) if the asset’s fair value is its market value, the only difference
between the asset’s fair value and its fair value less costs to
sell is the direct incremental costs to dispose of the asset :
(i) if the disposal costs are negligible, the recoverable
amount of the revalued asset is necessarily close to, or
greater than, its revalued amount (ie fair value). In this
case, after the revaluation requirements have been
applied, it is unlikely that the revalued asset is impaired
and recoverable amount need not be estimated.
(ii) If the disposal costs are not negligible, the fair value less
costs to sell of the revalued asset is necessarily less
than its fair value. Therefore, the revalued asset will be
impaired if its value in use is less than its revalued amount
(ie fair value). In this case, after the revaluation
requirements have been applied, an entity applies this
Standard to determine whether the asset may be impaired.
(b) if the asset’s fair value is determined on a basis other than its
market value, its revalued amount (ie fair value) may be greater
or lower than its recoverable amount. Hence, after the
revaluation requirements have been applied, an entity applies
this Standard to determine whether the asset may be impaired.
Para 80 (b) (b) not be larger than an operating segment as defined by
paragraph 5 of SLFRS 8 Operating Segments before
aggregation.

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
102A
LKAS 37 – Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 37 Para 2 Para 2
This Standard does not apply to financial instruments (including
guarantees) that are within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments.
LKAS 38 - Intangible Assets
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 38 Para 36 Para 36
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination might be
separable, but only together with a related contract, identifiable asset
or liability. In such cases, the acquirer recognises the intangible asset
separately from goodwill, but together with the related item.
Para 37 Para 37
The acquirer may recognise a group of complementary intangible
assets as a single asset provided the individual assets have similar
useful lives. For example, the terms ‘brand’ and ‘brand name’ are
often used as synonyms for trademarks and other marks. However,
the former are general marketing terms that are typically used to refer
to a group of complementary assets such as a trademark (or service
mark) and its related trade name, formulas, recipes and technological
expertise.
Para 40 Para 40
If no active market exists for an intangible asset, its fair value is the
amount that the entity would have paid for the asset, at the acquisition
date, in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing
parties, on the basis of the best information available. In determining
this amount, an entity considers the outcome of recent transactions
for similar assets. For example, an entity may apply multiples reflecting
current market transactions to factors that drive the profitability of
the asset (such as revenue, operating profit or earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation).
Para 41 Para 41
Entities that are involved in the purchase and sale of intangible assets
may have developed techniques for estimating their fair values
indirectly. These techniques may be used for initial measurement of

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
103A
an intangible asset acquired in a business combination if their
objective is to estimate fair value and if they reflect current
transactions and practices in the industry to which the asset belongs.
These techniques include, for example :—
(a) discounting estimated future net cash flows from the  asset; or
(b) estimating the costs the entity avoids by owning the intangible
asset and not needing :—
(i) to license it from another party in an arm’s length
transaction (as in the ‘relief from royalty’ approach, using
discounted net cash flows), or
(ii) to recreate or replace it (as in the cost approach).
LKAS 39–Financial Instrument : Recognition and Measurement
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 39 Para 2 (b) (b) rights and obligations under leases to which LKAS 17 Leases
applies. However :—
(i) lease receivables recognised by a lessor are subject to
the derecognition and impairment provisions of this
Standard;
(ii) finance lease payables recognised by a lessee are subject
to the derecognition provisions of this Standard; and
(iii) derivatives that are embedded in leases are subject to
the embedded derivatives provisions of this Standard.
Para 2 (e) (e) rights and obligations arising under (i) an insurance contract
as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, other than an
issuer’s rights and obligations arising under an insurance
contract that meets the definition of a financial guarantee
contract in Appendix  A  of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments,
or (ii) a contract that is within the scope of SLFRS 4 because
it contains a discretionary participation feature. However, this
Standard applies to a derivative that is embedded in a contract
within the scope of SLFRS 4 if the derivative is not itself a
contract within the scope of SLFRS 4. Moreover, if an issuer
of financial guarantee contracts has previously asserted
explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 104 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
104A
and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts,
the issuer may elect to apply either this Standard or SLFRS 4
to such financial guarantee contracts (see paragraphs AG4
and AG4A). The issuer may make that election contract by
contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
Para 2 (g) (g) any forward contract between an acquirer and a selling
shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a
business combination at a future acquisition date. The term of
the forward contract should not exceed a reasonable period
normally necessary to obtain any required approvals and to
complete the transaction.
Para 2 (h) (h)  loan commitments other than those loan commitments
described in Paragraph 4. An issuer of loan commitments
shall apply LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and
Contingent Assets to loan commitments that are not within
the scope of this Standard. However, all loan commitments are
subject to the derecognition provisions of this Standard.
Para 4 (a) (a) loan commitments that the entity designates as financial
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph
4.2.2 of SLFRS 9). An entity that has a past practice of selling
the assets resulting from its loan commitments shortly after
origination shall apply this Standard to all its loan commitments
in the same class.
Para 4 (c) (c) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate
(see paragraph 4.2.1 of SLFRS 9).
Para 8 Para 8
The terms defined in SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 are used in this Standard
with the meanings specified in Appendix A of SLFRS 9 and paragraph
11 of LKAS 32. SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 define the following terms :
• derecognition,
• derivative,
• equity instrument,
• fair value,
• financial asset,
• financial guarantee contract,
• financial instrument,
• financial liability
and provide guidance on applying those definitions.
Para 9 Para 9
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified:
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
105A
Definitions relating to recognition and measurement
The amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability is the
amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is measured
at initial recognition minus principal repayments, plus or minus
the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of
any difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount,
and minus any reduction (directly or through the use of an allowance
account) for impairment or uncollectibility.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised
cost of a financial asset or a financial liability (or group of financial
assets or financial liabilities) and of allocating the interest income
or interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest
rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments
or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or,
when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the
financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective
interest rate, an entity shall estimate cash flows considering all
contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example,
prepayment, call and similar options) but shall not consider future
credit losses. The calculation includes all fees and points paid or
received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of
the effective interest rate (see LKAS 18 Revenue), transaction costs,
and all other premiums or discounts. There is a presumption that
the cash flows and the expected life of a group of similar financial
instruments can be estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases
when it is not possible to estimate reliably the cash flows or the
expected life of a financial instrument (or group of financial
instruments), the entity shall use the contractual cash flows over
the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or group of
financial instruments).
Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly attributable
to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial asset or financial
liability (see Appendix A paragraph AG13). An incremental cost is
one that would not have been incurred if the entity had not acquired,
issued or disposed of the financial instrument.
Definitions relating to hedge accounting
A firm commitment is a binding agreement for the exchange of a
specified quantity of resources at a specified price on a specified
future date or dates.
A forecast transaction is an uncommitted but anticipated future
transaction.
A hedging instrument is a designated derivative or (for a hedge of
the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates only) a
designated non-derivative financial asset or non-derivative financial
liability whose fair value or cash flows are expected to offset changes
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference

<!-- page 106 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
106A
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
in the fair value or cash flows of a designated hedged item (paragraphs
72–77 and Appendix A paragraphs AG94–AG97 elaborate on the
definition of a hedging instrument).
A hedged item is an asset, liability, firm commitment, highly probable
forecast transaction or net investment in a foreign operation that
(a) exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value or future cash
flows and (b) is designated as being hedged (paragraphs 78–84 and
Appendix A paragraphs AG98–AG101 elaborate on the definition of
hedged items).
Hedge effectiveness is the degree to which changes in the fair value
or cash flows of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged
risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the
hedging instrument (see Appendix A paragraphs AG105–AG113).
Para 10 – 57 Deleted
Para 58 Para 58
An entity shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether
there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of
financial assets measured at amortised cost is impaired. If any such
evidence exists, the entity shall apply Paragraph 63 to determine
the amount of any impairment loss.
Para 61 Deleted
Para 63 Para 63
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on financial
assets measured at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of
the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows
(excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred)
discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate
(ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The
carrying amount of the asset shall be reduced either directly or
through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss shall be
recognised in profit or loss.
Para 66 – 70 Deleted
Para 79 Deleted
Para 88 (a) (a) At the inception of the hedge there is formal designation and
documentation of the hedging relationship and the entity’s
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the
hedge. That documentation shall include identification of the
hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the
nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess
the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the
exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash
flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Para 88(d) (d) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, ie
the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item that are
attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the
hedging instrument can be reliably measured.

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 11'12'30
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2011
107A
Para 89(b) (b) the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged
risk shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item and
be recognised in profit or loss. This applies if the hedged item
is otherwise measured at cost.
Para 90 Para 90
If only particular risks attributable to a hedged item are hedged,
recognized changes in the fair value of the hedged item unrelated to
the hedged risk are recognised as set out in paragraph 5.7.1 of SLFRS
9.
Para 97 Para 97
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the
recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associ-
ated gains or losses that were recognised in other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 95 shall be reclassified from
equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS
1) in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast
cash flows affect profit or loss (such as in the periods that interest
income or interest expense is recognised). However, if an entity
expects that all or a portion of a loss recognised in other compre-
hensive income will not be recovered in one or more future periods,
it shall reclassify into profit or loss as a reclassification adjust-
ment the amount that is not expected to be recovered.
Para 100 Para 100
For cash flow hedges other than those covered by paragraphs 97 and
98, amounts that had been recognised in other comprehensive
income shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclas-
sification adjustment (see LKAS 1) in the same period or periods
during which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss (for
example, when a forecast sale occurs).
LKAS 40 – Investment Property
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 40 Para 67 Para 67
The disposal of an investment property may be achieved by sale or
by entering into a finance lease. In determining the date of disposal
for investment property, an entity applies the criteria in LKAS 18 for
recognising revenue from the sale of goods and considers the related
guidance in the illustrative examples accompanying LKAS 18. LKAS
17 applies to a disposal effected by entering into a finance lease and
to a sale and leaseback.
LKAS 41 – Agriculture
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 41 Appendix Moved to application Guidance accompanying the standard.
Standard Existing Replaced/added paragraph
Para
Reference
PRINTED A T THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.