

<!-- page 1 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'11'22
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART III – LANDS
Land Acquisition Notices
wxl 1837$52 – 2013 fkdjeïn¾ 22 jeks isl=rdod – 2013'11'22
No. 1837/52 – FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2013
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
THE LAND ACQUISITION ACT (CHAPTER 460)
Declaration under Section 5
I, Janaka Bandara Thennakoon, Minister of Lands and Land
Development, hereby declare, under Sub-section (1) of Section 5 of
the Land Acquisition Act, that the lands described below are needed
for a public purpose and will be acquired under the provisions of
that Act.
Twenty one (21)  allotments of lands extent of about 22.2444
Hectares depicted as Lots ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’, ‘D’, ‘E’, ‘F’, ‘G’, ‘H’, ‘J’,
‘K’, ‘L’, ‘M’, ‘N’, ‘P’, ‘R’, ‘S’, ‘T’, ‘U’, ‘V’, ‘W’, ‘X’ in Advance
Tracing No. KA/ BRW/ 99/157 and dated 26.01.2000 prepared by
the Surveyor -General, situated at Moragalla and Kaluwamodara
Villages, Minior Division  of Kalutara Thotamuna - South in
Divisional Secretary's Division of Beruwala in the Kalutara District,
Western Province and bounded as follows:
01. Lot ‘A’ - Galaththarachchige Mullewatta - Extent : Abount
0.1513 Hectare
North: Lot B, Kaluwamodara river and Railway ; East:
Kaluwamodara river and Railway and  a part of this allotment of
land; South : Railway and  a part of this allotment of land ;West:
A part of this allotment of land and Lot B.
02. Lot “B” -  Galathharachchige Mullewatta Millagahawatta
- Extent : 7.4834 Hectares
North: Kaluwamodara river, Galaththarachchige Mullewatta
claimed by M. Karunasena and others, Millagahawatta claimed by
M. Nandawathi, coconut cultivation-name of claimant and land
unknown, coconut cultivation- name of claimant and land unknown,
coconut cultivation and land unknown, Beligahawatta claimed by
Shemila Malkanthi de Silva; East: Kaluwamodara river, Lot A
Galaththarachchige Mullewatta claimed by M. Karunasena and others
Millagahawatta claimed by M. Nandawathie, coconut cultivation-
name of claimant and land unknown, coconut cultication name of
claimant and land is unknown Beligahawatta claimed by Semila
Malkanthi de Silva, coconut cultivation - name of land unknown and
claimed by Irin Sumanawathie, Bodahawatta claimed by
Weerawardana Pilishamy, Bogahawatta claimed by Warnishamy and
others, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by S. Gnanasiri;
South: Coconut cultivation - name of land unknown and claimed by
Irin Sumanawathie, Bodahawatta claimed by Weerawardhana
Pilishamy, Bogahawatta claimed by Warnishamy and others, Garden
- name of land unknown and claimed by S. Ganasiri, Garden - name
of land unknown and claimed by S. Ashoka De Silva, Scrub Jungle -
name of  land claimant and unknown, Mullewatta Claimed by M. D.
de Silva, Mullewatta claimed by M. D. de Silva and others, Ferry
road, Babamettrigewatta claimed by Miulinnona, Hemawathie and
others, Garden - name of land and claimant unknown, Garden - name
of land and claimant  unknown and claimed by B. Malkanthi,
H. Lilton Weerarathne, S. Ranjith Kularathne, Kaluwamodara river;
West: Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by S. Ashoka De
Silva, Scrub Jungle - name of land and claimant unknown, Mullewatta
claimed by M. D. de Silva and others, Ferry road, Kaluwamodara
river, Babamettrige watta claimed by Miulinnona, Hemawathie and
others, Garden - name of land  unknown and claimed by B. Malkanthi,
Garden - name of land  unknown and claimed by H. Lintin
Weerarathne, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by
S. Ranjith Kularathne and Kaluwamodara river.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'11'22
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
03. Lot ‘C’ - Millawatta, Delwatta, Paluwatta, Elabodawatta,
Punchaduwawatta - Extent: 6.6860 Hectares
North: Kaluwamodara river, Ferry road, Garden - name of land
and claimant unknown, Millawatta claimed by W. Amarasena,
Coconut Cultivation - name of land unknown and claimed by Telma
Nandani, Delgahawatta claimed by Chandrawathie De Silva,
Ambagahawatta claimed by Nobert Karunarathne, Paluwatta claimed
by S. Chandrawathie, Paluwatta claimed by Weerawardena Nandaseeli
and others, Elabodawatta claimed by Rathnasiri, Somasiri, Kora Canal
and Mahaduwawatta claimant is unknown; East: Garden - name of
land and claimant unknown, Millawatta claimed by W. Amarasena,
Coconut Cultivation - name of land unknown and Claimed by Telma
Nandani, Delgahawatta claimed by Chandrawathie De Silva,
Ambagahawatta claimed by Nobert Karunarathne, Paluwatta claimed
by S. Chandrawathie, Weerawardena Nandaseeli and others,
Elabodawatta claimed by Rathnasiri, Somasiri, Kora canal,
Mahaduwawatta claimant  unknown; South and West : Kora canal,
Kaluwamodara river, Mahaduwawatta claimant is unknown.
04. Lot ‘D’ - Extent : 0.1735 Hectare
North: Nawasiwatta claimant is unknown, Nawasiwatta and
Lamadiwatta claimed by Nobert Karunaratne, Railway; East:
Nawasiwatta and Lamadiwatta claimed by Nobet Karunarattne,
Railway and Kora canal ; South : Kora canal ;West: Kora canal,
Elabodawatta claimed by Somasiri, Nawasiwatta claimant  unknown,
Nawasiwatta and Lamadiwatta claimed by Nobert Karunaratne.
05. Lot ‘E’ - Extent : 1.7824 Hectares
North: Kora canal, Railway, Sewandimulla claimed by Irin Silva,
Garden name of land unknown and claimed by T. Vijithasiri; East:
Railway, Uswatta claimed by W. Anurasiri de Silva, Sewandimulla
claimed by W. Irin Silva, Garden name of land unknown and claimed
by T. Vijithasiri, Palawatta claimed by Chandaradora Piyarathne,
Ahatugahawatta claimed by P. Susilawathie, Madatiyagahawatta
claimed by S. Pathmasena, Sooriyagahawatta claimed by E. D. Cyril
Silva, Thotewatta claimed by Milton Silva, Garden claimant  unknown
and claimed by A. Ranasiri Silva ; South: Uswatta claimed by
W. Anurasiri de Silva, Sewandimulla claimed by W. Irin Silva, Garden
name of land unknown and claimed by T. Vijithasiri, Palawatta claimed
by Chandaradora Piyarathne, Ahatugahawatta claimed by
P. Susilawathie, Madatiyagahawatta claimed by S. Pathmasena,
Sooriyagahawatta claimed by E. D. Cyril Silva, Thotewatta claimed
by Milton Silva, Garden- name of land unknown and claimed by
A. Ranasiri Silva, and Lot F;West: Lot F and Kora canal.
06. Lot ‘F’ - Extent : 0.0400 Hectare
North: Lot G, Kora Canal, Lot E ; East: Kora canal, Lot E,
Thotewatta claimed by E. Milton Silva and Garden - name of land
unknown and claimed by A. Ranasiri Silva; South : Garden - name of
land unknown and claimed by A. Ranasiri Silva; West : Garden -
name of land unknown and claimed by A. Ranasiri Silva, Ekagaha
pitiya claimed by S. Dayasiri and Lot G .
07. Lot ‘G’ - Ekagahapitiya, Arrachchiwatta Gangabadawatta
and Sooriyagahawatta - Extent: 0.1565 Hectare
North: Lot H, Kora canal; East: Kora Canal, Lot F, Ekagahapitiya
claimed by S. Dayasiri and Ekagahapitiya claimed by E. S. De S.
Abesekara; South : Lot F, Ekagahapitiya claimed by S. Dayasiri and
E.S.De S. Silva Abeysekara, Arrachchiwatta claimed by Thilak
Pushpamal, Gangabadawatta claimed by K. Lambet Silva,
Sooriyagahawatta claimed by A. Eladinnona; West :Ekagahapitiya
claimed by S. Dayasiri and De S. Abeysekara, Arrachchiwatta claimed
by Thilak Pushpamal, Gangabadawatta claimed by K. Lambet Silva,
Sooriyagahawatta claimed by A. Eladinnona, Mahawatta claimed by
Sinhara Hemapala Silva, Lot  H.
08. Lot ‘H’ - Dangahawatta, Mahawatta, Daniyapitiyawatta
- Extent:  2.3078 Hectares
North: Kaluwamodara river and Kora canal; East: Kora Canal, Lot
G , A part of this allotment of land, Bupitiyawatta claimed by Jayadin
Silva and others, Lot J; South : Lot G , Sooriyagaha watta claimed by
A. Eladinnona, A part of this allotment of land, Bupitiyagahawatta
claimed by Jayadin Silva and others and Kaluwamodara river; West:
A part of this allotment of land and Kaluwamodara river.
09. Lot ‘J’ - Bupitiyagahawatta - Extent:  0.6851 Hectare
North: Lot H, Bupitiyagahawatta claimed by Jayadin Silva and
others, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by Ajith
Senevirathna, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by Ashoka
Nandani, Thotupalawatta claimed by U. Abedeera Silva, road, Garden
- name of land unknown and claimed by K. Piyarathne, Garden -
name of land unknown and claimed by Champa Shamalee, Garden -
name of land  and claimant is unknown, Garden - name of land and
claimant is unknown and claimed by K. A. Silva Garden - name of
land and claimant is unknown; East: Bupitiyagahawatta claimed by
Jayadin Silva and others, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed
by Ajith Senevirathna, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed
by Ashoka Nandani, Thotupalawatta claimed by U. Abedeera Silva,
road, Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by K. Piyarathne,
Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by  K. A. Silva,  Marshy
land - name of land and claimant is unknown, Garden - name of land
unknown and claimed by Anura Champa Silva, Paluwatta claimed
by D. M. Thilakawathie, Batuwatta claimed by Nelson,
Thotupalawatta claimed by Weerawardana Talson Silva; South:
Garden - name of land unknown and claimed by Anura Champa de
Silva, Paluwatta claimed by D. M. Thilakawathie, Batuwatta claimed
by Nelson, Kaluwamodara river; West : Kaluwamodara river and Lot H.
10. Lot ‘K’ - Extent: 0.1291 Hectare
North: Kaluwamodara river, Thotupalawatta claimed by
Weerawardana Talson Silva, Gangewatta claimed by S. Arunasiri
Silva and Muththettuwawatta claimed by S. Somasiri Silva; South:
Mudillagahawatta claimed by W. C. M. Abesekara and K. G . M.
Gunawardana Garden - name of claimant and land unknown,
Kaluwamodara river; West: Garden - name of land and claimant is
unknown and, Kaluwamodara river.
11. Lot ‘L’ - Kalavillawatta - Extent:  0.4151 Hectare
North: Kalavillawatta claimed by Aluthgama Dharmadveepa
Hermitge and Galle Road; East: Galle Road, Kaluwamodara river;
South: Kaluwamodara river; West: Kalavillawatta claimed by
Aluthgama Dharmadveepa Hermitge.
12. Lot ‘M’ - Kalawillawatta - Extent: 0.0800 Hectare
North: Kalavillawatta claimed by S. Patikalatha De Silva and
Kaluwamodara river; East: Kaluwamodara river; South:
Kaluwamodara river, Kalavillawatta - claimant unknown,
Kalavillawatta claimed by Premajeewa and Muthumani
Premachandra; West: Kalavillawatta - claimant unknown,
Kalavillawatta claimed by Premajeewa and Muthumani Premachandra
and S. Patikalatha De Silva.

<!-- page 3 -->

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'11'22
PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.11.2013
3A
13. Lot ‘N’ - Kalawillawatta - Extent: 1.3582 Hectares
North: Garden - name of land and claimant unknown and
Kaluwamodara river; East: Kaluwamodara river and Kalavillawatta
claimed by K. Susiripala; South: K. Susiripala, Nammuni Kankanamge
Premawathi, Danistan Premasiri, Nimalsiri, S. Robert de Silva,
Beruwala State Distillery, Kalavillawatta claimed by Lalith Nandana
and others, S. Yogasiri De Silva Dayarathne Weerawardena, H. M.
Gamini and Newton, Road,  Kalavillawatta claimed by H. Robert De
Silva, E. Kandulamala Wipulasiri Abeyagunawardena, Kalavillawatta
claimed by H. Janath Rohitha, P. Piyadasa, Road, Upali Jayarathna,
Moragalla Tourist Police Station claimant unknown Sankalal and
Kalavillawatta - claimant is unknown; West: Nammuni Kankanamge
Premawathi, Danistan Premasiri, Nimalsiri, S. Robert Se Silva,
Beruwala State Distillery, Kalavillawatta claimed by Lalith Nandana
and others, S. Yogasiri De Silva Dayarathne Weerawardena, H. M.
Gamini and Newton, Road,  Kalavillawatta claimed by H. Robert De
Silva, E. Kandulamala Wipulasiri Abeygunawardena, H. Janath
Rohitha, P . Piyadasa, Road, Upali Jayarathna, Moragolla Tourist
Police Station, Claimant unknown Sankalal and Kalavillawatta -
claimant unknown and Garden - name of land and claimant is unknown.
14. Lot ‘P’ -  Extent : 0.3140 Hectare
North: Mahadeniya claimed by P . Amitha de Silva, Garden name
of land and claimant is unknown, Garden name of land and claimant
unknown Bogahawatta alias Deniyawatta claimed by S. Rosalinnona
and Kaluwamodara river; East: Kaluwamodara river; South :
Kaluwamodara river,Garden name of land and claimant is unknown,
Malabadagahawatta alias Isthalewatta claimed by P. Dayananda Silva
and Amarawathie Abeygunawardana and others; West:
Malabadagahawatta alias Isthalewatta claimed by P. Dayananda Silva
and Amarawathie Abeygunawardana, Mahadeniya claimed by
P. Amitha de Silva, Garden - name of land and claimant is unkown,
Garden- name of land and claimant is unknown, Bogahawatta alias
Deniyawatta claimed by S. Rosalinnona.
15. Lot ‘R’ -  Extent : 0.0617 Hectare
North and East : Kaluwamodara river; South: Bakinigahawatta
claimed by Dayasena, Liliyat, Ranjani, Palawatta claimed by T. Jayath
Rasika, Ahatugahawatta claimed by Liliyat, Ranjani and
Indreasena;West: Bakinigahawatta claimed by Dayasena, Liliyat,
Ranjani, Palawatta claimed by T. Jayath Rasika, Ahatugahawatta
claimed by Liliyat Ranjani and Indreasena and Kaluwamodara river.
16. Lot ‘S’ - Ginikanuwawatta and Pilamgahawatta - Extent :
0.0628 Hectare
North: Garden name of land unknown and claimed by S.C.W. de
Silva, Pilimgahapitiya claimed by S. Punnasara; East: Pilimagahapitiya
claimed by S. Punnasara and Kaluwamodara river; South :
Kaluwamodara river,Garden name of land and claimant unknown,
and claimed by Mangala de Silva, Ginikanuwawatta claimed by
Bayinis Silva;West: Ginikanuwawatta claimed by Bayinis Silva
Garden- name of land and claimant unkown and claimed by S.C.W.
de Silva.
17. Lot ‘T’ -  Extent : 0.0249 Hectare
North: Garden name of land unknown and claimed by Kolin
Senevirathne and Road ; East: Road and Kaluwamodara river; South:
Kaluwamodara river, Pilimgahapitiya claimed by S. Punnasara;West:
Pilimgahapitiya claimed by S. Punnasara and Garden- name of land
unkown, and claimed by Kolin Senevirathne.
18. Lot ‘U’ - Extent : 0.1294 Hectare
North: Garden - name of land and claimant unknown and Garden
- name of land unknown and claimed by Holy; East : Kaluwamodara
river; South:  Kaluwamodara river and Road ;West: Road and Garden
- name of land and claimant unknown and Garden - name of land
unknown and claimed by Holy.
19. Lot ‘V’ - Extent : 0.0778 Hectare
North: Garden - name of land and claimant unknown and Garden
- name of land unknown; East : Garden - name of land and claimant
unknown and Garden - name of land and claimant and land unknown,
Kaluwamodara river; South: Kaluwamodara river;West:
Kaluwamodara river, Garden - name of claimant and land unkonwn.
20. Lot ‘W’ - Extent : 0.0133 Hectare
North: Garden - name of land and claimant is unknown and Garden
- name of land and claimant and land unknown; East : Garden - name
of land and claimant is unknown and Garden - name of land and
claimant and land unknown; South: Garden - name of land and claimant
and land unknown and Kaluwamodara river ;West: Kaluwamodara
river and Garden - name of land and claimant is unknown.
21. Lot ‘X’ - Extent: 0.1121 Hectare
North: Garden - name of land and claimant is unknown and
Garden - name of land and claimant is unknown and Railway; East:
Garden - name of land and claimant is unknown and Railway; South:
Kaluwamodara river; West: Kaluwamodara river and Garden - name
of land and claimant is unknown.
Janaka Bandara Thennakoon,
Minister of Lands and Land Development.
Reference No.: 13/97/FR/200,
Minister of Lands and Land Development
“Mihikatha Medura”,
No. 1200/6,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
26th June, 2013.
12 – 273
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA