

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
 RAJITHA  KODITHUWAKKU
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 139]
————————
Presented by Hon. Malith Jayathilake, M.P.
on 23rd September, 2016
(Published in the Gazette on June 20, 2016)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
——————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  RAJITHA KODITHUWAKKU
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation” has heretofore been
formed at Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objectives
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Rajitha Kodithuwakku
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Rajitha
Kodithuwakku Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of “Rajitha
Kodithuwakku Foundation” and by that name may sue and
be sued in all Courts, with full power and authority to have
and use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objectives for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to participate in social, cultural and economic
development of the country;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Rajitha
Kodithuwakku
Foundation.
General
objectives of
the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
PL 009974 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation(G)
(b) to advise and assist all communities in Sri Lanka to
live in peace and harmony;
(c) to organize leadership programmes;
(d) to assist needy school children financially or
otherwise by way of donations, prizes and
scholarships enabling them to continue their
education and encourage their regular attendance
at school and to assist them in their educational,
spiritual, religious, cultural and scientific
development and the establishment of an  education
institute to ensure the rights of education;
(e) to promte human rights, human values, fundamental
freedoms and to promote democratic values among
all communities in Sri Lanka;
(f) to encourage the participation in social and cultural
activities among different ethnicities and
communities with a view to promoting and fostering
unity among them;
(g) to promote and encourage humanitarian, sports,
literary, spiritual activities among all communities
in Sri Lanka for the upliftment of quality of life;
(h) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent of
such authorities —
(i) to establish and maintain libraries;
(ii) to promote agricultural and fisheries activities
using new technologies;
(iii) to establish information technology centers
for the advancement of scientific studies;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(iv) for the development of institutes of higher
studies and to encourage research activities
and to award scholarships for the pursuance
of higher education of the needy students;
(v) to empower women, children and the
marginalized groups such as persons with
disabilities, and the poor to achieve their
potential; and
(vi) for the development of educational, religious,
cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities and to
organize various festivals and competition.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation,
made under section 6, be administered by a Board of Directors
comprising of five Members, consisting the Chairman,
Secretary,  Treasurer and another five members elected in
accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Board of  the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Adminidtration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
his election.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts to borrow or raise moneys with or without security
to erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
PL 009974 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation(G)
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of members present and
voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors;
(e) election of Board of Directors; and
(f) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to  or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
bequest, donation,  subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporatoin shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, agreement, disposition  or otherwise and all such property
movable or immovable shall be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for
the time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities of the
Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any
contribution exceeding the among of such membership fees
as may be due from him to the Corporation.
11.    If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
5
10
15
20
25
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
PL 009974 Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation(G)
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and  audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate, or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 8 -->

7Rajitha Kodithuwakku Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .