

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2397$30 - 2024 wf.daia;= ui 14 jeks nodod - 2024.08.14
No. 2397/30  -  wedNesday,   august  14 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 6825 - 29 (08/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI LANKA TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT, No. 25 OF 1991
RegulatioNs  made by the Minister of technology under section 71(1) read with section 22 (7) of the sri lanka tele-
communications act No. 25 of 1991 as amended by the sri lanka telecommunications (amendment) act, No. 27 of 1996 
and the sri lanka telecommunications (amendment) act, No. 39 of 2024.
  Ranil Wickremesinghe,
  President,
  Minister of technology.
Colombo, 
06th august, 2024
1. these regulations may be cited as Radio Frequency Spectrum Auction Regulations No. 02 of 2024.
2. These regulations shall come into effect on 06th August,  2024.
3. the Commission shall conduct auction under these Regulation for the assignment of radio frequency spectrum for 
broadband services.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.08.2024
2a
4. the objective adopting a competition-based methodology of auctioning by the Commission is to;
4.1 ensure a transparent, and non-discriminatory radio frequency spectrum assignment framework
4.2 promote competition in the usage of radio frequency spectrum and facilitate access to radio frequency spectrum
4.3 establish a transparent, fair, competitive and non-discriminatory pricing methodology to determine the economic 
value of radio frequency spectrum based on the market demand.
5. The Commission shall publish a notice in the official website:-
5.1 describing the parts of the spectrum to be auctioned; and
5.2 giving a brief description of the way the auction will be conducted ; and
5.3 inviting people to apply to the Commission to take part in the auction; and
5.4 stating the closing date and time for applications; and
5.5 stating that assignment will be issued in terms of these rules ; and
5.6  stating that application information can be obtained from the Commission at the address given in the notice or 
downloaded from the link.
6. the Commission shall publish the Notice of assignment (Noa) for each auction and shall contain but not limited to 
the persons qualified to become eligible, auction format, conditions, period of assignment, procedures and instructions 
for bidders how to participate.
7. only registered bidders will be allowed to participate in the auction and the registration of the eligible bidders will be 
made on the payment of entry fees of Rs. 100,000/- for each auction.
8. The Spectrum lots shall be assigned to the winning bidder for a specified period as set out in the NoA.
9. the winning bidder shall deposit 10% of the winning bid price at the close of the auction and the balance bid price 
shall be paid as per a schedule determined by the Commission.
10. The winning bidder ceases to have all rights to the spectrum lots in case of non-payment within the specified time 
period. such spectrum slots will be made available by the Commission for new assignments.
11. the winning bidder shall pay all government taxes in addition to the bid price.
12. the Commission shall determine the reserve price for each lot and will be specified in the NoA.
13. The Commission shall issue an identification for each registered bidder.
14. the w inning bidder shall be required to obtain a frequency licence in terms of section 22 of the act on the payment 
of the charges as per the rules or regulations in force at the time of application in addition to the payment of winning 
bid price.
15. Non-payment period the Commission is free to auction the frequency lots for new assignments.
16. the auctioneer will be a person appointed by the Commission to conduct the auction or a committee appointed by the 
Commission to conduct the auction.
17. The Auctioneer will:-
17.1 invite bids for each lot;
17.2 identify the registered bidder who makes the highest bid for the lot.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.08.2024
3a
In the event of a disputed bid:
17.3 the auctioneer is the sole arbiter; and
17.4 the Auctioneer’s decision is final.
18. the following suitable auction formats shall be adopted by the Commission for the frequency lots considering number 
of potential bidders, level of competition, market maturity and availability of spectrum. Noa  shall be published on the 
Commission website.
Auction Formats ;
18.1 Single-Round Sealed-Bid Auctions (Regular)
18.1.1 Single-round auctions give bidders only one chance to submit an offer for the spectrum they are interested 
in.
18.1.2 The Auctioneer shall announce the reserve price for each spectrum lot on offer through the NoA.
18.1.3 the auctioneer shall allow bidders to submit their bids within designated time period.
18.1.4 Within the designated time period, a bidder shall submit his/her bids for the different spectrum lots in 
a bid form - either on paper which shall then be placed in a sealed envelope and handed over to the 
auctioneer, or via an electronic bidding system where a bidder’s bids are invisible to the other bidders. 
a  bid value of zero shall be written for lots that a bidder is not interested in.
18.1.5 w ithdrawals or changes shall not be permitted once the bids have been submitted.
18.1.6 when the designated time period for bidding has ended, the auctioneer shall evaluate the results.
18.1.7 the highest bid for a lot wins that lot, and the winning bidder shall pay the bid value submitted by him/
her for that lot.
18.1.8 identical (ties) price bids for a lot, by two or more bidders, shall be resolved by a lottery.
18.2 Single-Round Sealed-Bid Auctions-(SRSB) - Vickery Auction
18.2.1 this auction allows for a single-round sealed-bid with second-price.
18.2.2 The Auctioneer shall announce the reserve price for each spectrum lot on offer in the NoA.
18.2.3 the auctioneer shall allow bidders to submit their bids within designated time period.
18.2.4 Within the designated time period, a bidder shall submit his/her bids for the different spectrum lots in 
a bid form - either on paper which shall then be placed in a sealed envelope and handed over to the 
auctioneer, or via an electronic bidding system where a bidder’s bids are invisible to the other bidders. 
a  bid value of zero shall be written for frequency spectrum lots that a bidder is not interested in.
18.2.5 w ithdrawals or changes shall not be permitted once the bids have been submitted.
18.2.6 when the designated time period for bidding has ended, the auctioneer shall evaluate the results.
18.2.7 the highest bid for a lot wins that lot, and the winning bidder shall pay the second highest bid received 
for that lot. if there is no second highest bid, the winning bid amount shall be paid.
18.2.8 t ies, i.e. identical prices bid for a lot by two or more bidders, shall be resolved by a lottery.
18.3 Simultaneous Multiple-Round Auctions (SMRA)
18.3.1 The Auctioneer shall announce the reserve price for each spectrum lot on offer through the NoA, and also 
on a display in an electronic bidding system.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.08.2024
4a
18.3.2 In the first round, a bidder shall place his/her initial bids for the different lots on a bid form, or through 
an electronic bidding system where a bidder’s bids are invisible to the other bidders, within a designated 
time period announced by the auctioneer. a  bid value of zero shall be written for lots that a bidder is not 
interested in.
18.3.3 w ithdrawals or changes shall not be permitted once the bids have been submitted.
18.3.4 At the end of the first round, the leading bid amount for each lot shall be disclosed to all bidders.
18.3.5 after a time period announced by the auctioneer, during which the bidders shall plan their strategy for 
the next round, the second round shall be opened and conducted in the same way as the first round, and 
so on.
18.3.6 the durations of the rounds and the pauses shall be varied, depending on the experience of the bidders 
and the complexity of the decisions they need to make after each round.
18.3.7 the auction shall end when there are no bids for a lot in a round. the highest bids of the previous round 
shall win the respective lots and the winning bid values shall be paid.
18.3.8 the auction shall also end when there is a single bid for a lot in a round. the bid of the respective lot 
shall win and bid value shall be paid.
18.3.9 in order to speed up the process, auctioneer shall impose minimum bid increments from round to round, 
typically ranging from 1% to 15% of the highest bids from the previous round, depending on auction 
progress.
18.4 Clock Auctions (CA)
18.4.1 In the first round, the reserve price per lot shall be shown on the clock (the clock price)
18.4.2 w ithin a designated time period announced by the auctioneer, bidders shall state that how many lots 
they would buy at this price - either on paper which shall then be placed in a sealed envelope and handed 
to the auctioneer, or via an electronic bidding system where a bidder’s stated demand shall be invisible 
to the other bidders.
18.4.3 a  demand of zero shall be written to state that a bidder exits the auction. such a bidder shall not be 
eligible to bid in subsequent rounds.
18.4.4 In the first round, bidders shall also specify their Minimum Spectrum Requirement (MSR), which is the 
minimum number of lots they need.
18.4.5 This is to ensure that bidders will not win an amount of spectrum they consider insufficient when the lots 
are distributed among the winning bidders at the end of the clock stage.
18.5.6 At the end of the first round the bidders shall be informed whether the aggregate demand exceeds the 
available supply or not, either verbally by the auctioneer or on an electronic display, without disclosing 
the individual bids.
18.4.7 if the aggregate demand equals or is less than the available supply, this is the end of the clock stage and 
the lot quantities shall be assigned to the bidders according to their expressed demand.
18.4.7.1 if the aggregate demand exceeds the available supply, another round with a higher clock 
price shall follow.
18.4.7.2 if the aggregate demand exceeds the available supply at the reserve price, the clock price 
shall be increased for the second round. Clock price increments from round to round shall 
vary depending on auction progress, typically ranging from 5% to 15%. the second round is 
opened after a time period announced by the auctioneer during which the bidders have time 
to plan their strate by for the next round.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.08.2024
5a
18.4.7.3 in the second round, bidders shall be again invited to state their demand (the number of lots 
they would buy at the new clock price) within a designated time period. they shall state the 
same demand as in the first round or less or they shall increase the demand.
18.4.7.4 in the second round and subsequent rounds, “intra-round bidding” shall be allowed, which 
means bidders shall express demand not only at the current clock price, but at any price 
between the current and the last clock price. However, they shall express demand at the 
current clock price to be eligible to bid in the next round.
18.4.7.5 the duration of the rounds and the pauses between them may be varied, depending on the 
experience of the bidders and the complexity of the decisions they need to make after each 
round.
18.4.7.6 w ithdrawals or changes of bids shall not be permitted once the bids have been submitted.
18.4.7.7 the clock stage shall end when the aggregate demand at the clock price in a round equals the 
available supply or falls below it.
i. if demand at the clock price equals supply at the end of the last round, the available lots 
shall be distributed among the bidders according to their expressed demand.
ii. if demand at the clock price fell below supply, lots shall be assigned to the bidders 
according to their expressed demand.
18.4.7.8  t o assign lots that shall remain unsold at the end of the clock stage, a single-round sealed-bid 
auction with second  price rule shall be used, with a reserve price that shall equal to the last 
clock price at which demand exceeds supply.
19. in Package bidding, auctioneer shall allow package bidding in some auctions depending on the spectrum availability 
and spectrum utilization. Auctioneer shall offer predefined packages of spectrum lots or allow any combination of lots.
20. auctioneer shall set spectrum caps for the auction and shall be stipulated in Noa. t o ensure an equitable distribution 
of spectrum and to prevent market distortions by an undue concentration of spectrum in the hands of one or a few 
operators.
21. the Reserve price shall be determined by the auctioneer based on the Frequency licence Fee Rules/Regulations 
published by the Commission from time to time.
Definitions:
 
Reserve Price - means the reserve prices are the minimum bids TRCSL shall accept for the different lots.
auctioneer - means the person designated by the Commission to conduct the auction or by a committee 
appointed by Commission to conduct the auction.
Specific Lots - Spectrum lots in an auction which is tied to a specific frequency be offered as specific lots.
Generic Lots - Spectrum lots in an auction which is not tied to a specific frequency be offered as generic lots.
Commission - shall mean the t elecommunications Regulatory Commission established under the act.
Package Bidding  - Bidders bid for predefined packages of spectrum lots or allow any combination of lots.
Bidder - is a person who has registered as a bidder.
Bid - means a bid made on a single lot/package.
eog 08 - 0180
PRiNted at  tHe deP aR tMeNt  oF goVeRNMeNt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi laNKa.