

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  N o. 16  OF  1978
Order under Section 27(l)(b) read with Section 25A
BY virtue of powers vested in me by Section 27(1 )(b) read with Section 25A of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, I,  
Dr. Harini Amarasuriya, the Minister of Education, Higher Education and V ocational Education having obtained a report 
under Section 70C of the aforesaid Act, in respect of the Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (Guarantee) Limited, 
a company incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 and bearing Registration Number GL 24, 
being recognized as a Degree Awarding Institute, do by this Order, amend the Schedule II to the Order made under the said 
Act and published in Gazette Extraordinary, No. 2424/59 of February 20, 2025, by the addition immediately after entry 
“Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence” appearing in Column I and its corresponding entry in Column II thereof, of the 
entries specified under Column I and II respectively of the Schedule II hereto, subject to the conditions specified in Schedule 
I hereto:-
SCHEDULE  I
Conditions
Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (Guarantee) Limited shall, when admitting students for the degree programme 
specified in Schedule II hereto in respect of;
 1. Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Logistic and Supply Chain Management, Bachelor of 
Business Administration Honours in Marketing Management, Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in 
Management Information Systems, Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Business Management and 
Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Quality Management with a minimum of 120 Credits (SLQF 
Level 6), adhere to the minimum entry qualification of;
w;s úfYI
wxl 2450$40 - 2025 wf.daia;= ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025'08'21
No. 2450/40 -  THURSDAY,   AUGUST  21 ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) - GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - PG 7230 - 284 (08/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.08.2025
2A
 (a) Three (3) simple passes (S) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.E (Advanced Level) 
Examination conducted by the Department of Examination of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification.
 2. Bachelor of Science Honours in Data Science and Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering with a 
minimum of 120 Credits (SLQF Level 6), adhere to the minimum entry qualification of;
 (a) At least three (3) simple passes (S) in Physical Science stream or Engineering Technology stream in 
one and the same sitting at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination conducted by the Department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka or Equivalent Qualification; or
 (b) At least three (3) simple passes (S) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) 
Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a 
Credit pass (C) in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination conducted by the Department 
of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and the successful completion of a Bridging 
Programme approved by Specified Authority; or
 
 (c) At least three (3) simple passes (S) in any stream in one and the same sitting with a simple pass (S) for 
Information & Communication Technology, in any attempt at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination 
conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a Credit pass (C) 
in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations 
of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification.
 3. Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (Guarantee) Limited is recognized to offer the degrees specified in 
Schedule II hereto subject to the five (5) year periodic review conducted by the Specified Authority.
SCHEDULE  II
Column I
Degree
Column II
Abbreviations for Degree
Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in 
Logistic and Supply Chain Management
BBA Hons (Logistic and Supply Chain 
Management)
Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in 
Marketing Management
BBA Hons (Marketing Management)
Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in 
Management Information Systems
BBA Hons (Management Information Systems)
Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in 
Business Management
BBA Hons (Business Management)
Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in 
Quality Management
BBA Hons (Quality Management)
Bachelor of Science Honours in Data Science BSc Hons (Data Science)
Bachelor of Science Honours in Software 
Engineering
BSc Hons (Software Engineering)
 Dr. Harini Amarasuriya,
 Minister of Education, Higher Education and
 V ocational Education.
Colombo,
14th August, 2025.
EOG 08 - 0232  
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.