

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1251
1251
wxl 1"824 - 2013 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'16
No. 1,824 – FRIDAY , AUGUST  16, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  06th  September, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
August, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 1252
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in Januray to March, 2011 registered under the printers and publishers ordinance has been
published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1252
Provincial Councils Notifications
NOTIFICATION  UNDER  SECTION  123(1)  OF  PRADESHIYA  SABHA  ACT,  No. 15  OF  1987,  READ  WITH
SECTION  2  OF  PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS  (CONSEQUENTIAL  PROVISIONS)  ACT,  No. 12  OF  1989
BY virtue of powers vested upon the Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with
Sub-Section 126 (VII) (h) of the said Act, following by-law was made by the said Pradeshiya Sabha passed by the resolution
No. 06-01-06 at the Monthly General Meeting of Agalawatta Pradeshiya Sabha held on 21st of September,  2012. It is hereby announced
that I, Prasanna Ranathunga, The Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local
Government and Provincial Administration, Power and Energy, Man Power and Employment, Economic Promotion and Trade of the
Western Province Provincial Council approved the said by-law in terms of Section 123(1) of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 1 2 of
1987, read with Section 2 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
P
RASANNA RANATUNGA,
The Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and
Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education,
Local Government and Provincial  Administration, Power and Energy,
Man Power and Employment, Economic Promotion and
 Trade of the Western Province Provincial Council.
Chief Ministry (Western Province),
Sravasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07,
On the day of 30th of July, 2013.
Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha
THE DRAFT ON BY-LAWS PERTAINING TO PARKING OF THREE-WHEELERS
1. These By-Laws may be cited as By-Laws pertaining to Parking of Three-Wheelers in the Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. These By-laws shall be enacted to regulate and control the parking of Three-wheelers and to levy charges for parking places
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. (1) The specified places for parking of three wheelers and the Maximum Number of Three-wheelers to be parked at each park
shall be decided on a resolution passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha and such decisions shall come into operation from the
date of publication of them in the  Gazette or from a date specified therein.
(2) If the Pradeshiya Sabha is of opinion that the places and the Number of Three-wheelers to be parked therein , decided
under Section 3(1) above shall be amended, it may be done by a resolution passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha and such
amendment shall come into operation from the date of publication of them in the Gazette or from a date specified therein.
(3) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall seek recommendations of the Committee comprising of the members referred to in the
Schedule one in order to determine places of the Three-wheeler parks and its rangers and the maximum number of Three-
wheelers that can be parked in each park or to amend such decisions.
(4) A board shall be fixed at each park in order to identify the places to park Three-wheelers in terms of the Section 3(1) above
and the code number of the relevant park shall be displayed in the board.
(5) The maximum number of Three-wheelers that can be parked shall be displayed in the board in terms of Section.
(6) The Three-wheelers shall be properly parked and the manner in which they are to be parked shall be marked by an
authorized officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha with a white or yellow line of 4 inches in width.
4. It shall be lawful to issue a license in the manner indicated in the Schedule Two of this By-law for parking Three-wheelers b y
the Chairman and to impose charges and collect charges for such purpose by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
5.  When issuing licenses for Three-wheelers for the purpose of parking in a Three-wheeler park priority shall be given to the
three-wheelers owned by the residents in the closest proximity.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1253
6. (1) For the purpose of parking a Three-wheeler in the Three-wheeler park nearest to the permanent residence, a license shall
be applied from the Pradeshiya Sabha making an application as per specimen application form mentioned in the Schedule
Three and the application form shall be obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment of a fee determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha. This fee for the application may from time to time be amended as per decisions taken by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(2) In case where the driver is the owner the photo copies of the following documents of such person and in case where the
driver is a hired person, photocopies of such documents of both hired driver and the owner shall be accompanied with the
application. Such application shall be in the manner mentioned in the Schedule Three.
(i) The National Identity Card and the Valid Driving License of the owner;
(ii) Certificate of Registration of the Three-wheeler;
(iii) The National Identity Card and the Valid License of the hired driver.
(3) A register shall be maintained in respect of Three-wheelers which have been obtained licensed issued by the Pradeshiya
Sabha, and when cancelled such license it should be recorded with red ink.
(4) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue licenses annually for the purpose of parking Three-wheelers.
(5) A photo copy of the valid license shall be displayed on the windscreen of the Three-wheeler which can be seen clearly.
(6) The right side of the Three-wheeler shall be blocked to prevent the passengers from entering or alighting from that side.
(7) The license shall be issued in the name of the registered owner of the Three-wheeler.
(8) The Three-wheeler owner shall renew the license two weeks before the expiry of such license.
(9) In terms of subsection 6(4) above license fee imposed annually shall be decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha and such fee
shall be charged with effect from the date when such decision is published in the Gazette or such a dated specified
therein.
(10) In terms of by-law 4 Three-wheelers shall not be parked or entered into a Three-wheeler park unless the Three-wheeler
possesses a valid license issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(11) Notwithstanding the possession of a valid license issued, a Police Officer or the Chairman or an Officer who has been
authorized to by him may order that a Three-wheeler be removed temporarily from the park, and this license shall not be
an obstruction to such order.
7. No other vehicle shall enter or kept parked in a Three-wheeler park.
8. Neither Three-wheeler nor any other vehicle shall be parked in the manner of blocking the entrance and the exit of the
Three-wheeler park.
9. No any repairs shall be done in the Three-wheeler Park other than the repairs relating to removal of the Three-wheeler.
10. No Three-wheeler shall be parked in any other place awaiting hires other than the relevant parking place for which the licen se
has been obtained.
11. At the time licensed Three-wheelers have been parked in the Three-wheeler Park the drivers shall not call and allow outsider s
to come into the park and loiter in the park.
12. No person shall use drugs or conduct immorality or commit any oppressive act in a Three-wheeler park and it is a responsibil ity
of the persons authorized to use the park, not to allow any person to commit such acts.
13. If there are any complaints from the public regarding any misbehaving at Three-wheeler parks by any person who possesses a
license, the Pradeshiya Sabha reserves the authority to inquire into those complaints and to cancel his license if found guilty for
the charges.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1254
14. The driver or the owner of the Three-wheeler shall produce the original copy of the valid license on demand by the Chairman or
an Officer authorized for this purpose by him or a Police Officer.
15. (1) Violation of any provision stipulated in the by-laws in an offence and after being convicted by a competent court shall b e
liable of a fine not exceeding a sum of Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty (750). In an occasion of repeating such violation
after being convicted by a competent court or after being handed over a written notice drawing the attention of the offence
of such violation by the Chairman or an Officer authorized for this purpose by him, shall be liable of an additional fine not
exceeding a sum of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty (250) for each and every day of committing such offence repeatedly.
(2) the fine referred to in by-law 15(1) shall be credited to the general fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
16. Notwithstanding anything mentioned contrary in these by-laws by a resolution passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha, these By-laws
may be amended, repeal by enacting new by-laws or enact additional By-laws.
17. Interpretation.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
“An Offier Authorized for the purpose” means any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha who has been authorized by the Chairman.
“An Authorized Officer who has been delegated by the Chairman for the purpose” means any Officer hold a permanent post of
the Pradeshiya Sabha who has been authorized by the Chairman in writing.
“Area of Authority” means limits of Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
“Three-wheeler” means the Three-wheeler parked with the expectation for a hire.
“Hired Driver” means the owner who drives the Three-wheeler or the person employed for driving by the owner of the Three-
wheeler.
“Parking place” means Three-wheeler Park determined on a resolution passed by the Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Monthly” means each month starting from 1st consisting 28, 30 or 31 days as applicable.
“Quarterly” means successive three months starting from 1st of January up to 31st of December, consisting of the number of
days as defined in “Monthly”.
“Annually” means a calendar year starting from 1st of January and ending on 31st of December.
“Police Officer” means the same interpretation as defined under Section 104 in chaper 53 of the Police Ordinance No. 16 of 1865.
“Other Vehicles” means the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance.
“Registered Owner” means the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance.
“Act of Nuisance” means the same interpretation as defined in the Nuisance Ordinance.
18. If there is an inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil texts of these by-laws, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
T
HE FIRST SCHEDULE
BY-LAW  NO. 3.3
The Road Committee to be appointed shall consist of the members mentioned below:
1. The Chairman of the Committee shall the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the Secretary shall be the Revenue Inspector
of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1255
2. The Secretary and the Technical Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him.
4. The Chairman of the Provincial Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him.
5. The Chairman of the road Passenger Transport Authority, Kalutara or a representative nominated by him.
6. The Chairman of Kalutara Bus Company Ltd. or a representative nominated by him.
7. The Officer in Charge of the Traffic in the Police Stations coming under the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha or a
representative from each station nominated by them.
8. A representative from each Three-wheeler Drivers’ Union within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
SECOND SCHEDULE
By-Law 4
Circle with 13 cm diameter
A stiker containing blue inner circle and yellow side border as depicted in the Pradeshiya Sabha symbol.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1256
THIRD SCHEDULE
BY-LA W  NO.  6.2
APPLICATION TO OBTAIN A PERMIT TO PARK A THREE WHEELER IN PARKING PLACE
01. (i) Name of the Applicant :—————————.
(ii) Permanent residential address :—————————.
(iii) Assessment No.:—————————.
(iv) Local Authority relevant to the Permanent residence:—————————.
(v) National Identity Card No.:—————————.
02. (i) Registration No. of the Three Wheeler:—————————.
(ii) Whether the driver is the owner or a hired driver:—————————.
(a) If the driver is the owner, valid driving License No.:—————————.
(b) If the driver is a hired person –
(a) Name of the driver:—————————.
(b) Permanent residential address:—————————.
(c) National Identity Card No.:—————————.
(d) No. of the valid Driving License:—————————.
03. Name of the parking place for which the permit is applied:—————————.
04. Duration of the period for which the permit is applied:—————————.
*   For a month/three months/year
I agree that the particulars given above by me are accurate and if they are found to be false the license issued for me to park  the
three-wheeler is liable to be cancelled without any prior notice and to comply with the provisions in the by-law imposed by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for parking three-wheelers.
Date :—————————.
I approve the issuance of a permit to Mr/Mrs.  ................to park the Three Wheeler bearing No. .....................at......................Park
for a period of.....................
Chairman,
Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date :—————————.
08-544

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'08'16
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.08.2013
1257
NOTIFICATION
I, do hereby notify the drafts of the by-laws on solid waste
management in relation to the local government institutions of Uva
Province, prepared by the Minister in charge of Local Governance
of Uva Provincial Council, under the powers vested in him by the
clause 2 of the Local Government Institution (Standard by-laws)
Act, No. 06 of 1952 to be read with para (a) of sub clause (1) of
clause 02 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12 of 1989 and published in the Part IV(A) of the
Government Gazette Extraordinary of Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka bearing No. 1778/45 dated 05.10.2010 is adapted and
approved at the Provincial Council sitting on 04.04.2013.
L. L. A
NIL WIJESIRI,
The Secretary,
Ministry of Local Governance,
Uva Provincial Council,
Badulla.
Uva Provincial Council,
Badulla,
29th July, 2013.
08-603/1
NOTIFICATION
I, do hereby notify the drafts of the by-laws on destroying of
mosquitoes and disease causing insects in relation to the local
government institutions of Uva Province, prepared by the Minister
in charge of Local Governance of Uva Provincial Council, under the
powers vested in him by the clause 2 of the Local Government
Institution (Standard  by-laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 to be read with
para (a) of Sub clause (1) of clause 02 of the Provincial Council
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and published in
the Part IV(A) of the Government Gazette Extraordinary  of
Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka bearing No. 1678/4  dated  02.11.2010
is adapted and approved at the Provincial Council sitting on
04.04.2013.
L. L. A
NIL WIJESIRI,
The Secretary,
Ministry of Local Governance,
Uva Provincial Council,
Badulla.
Uva Provincial Council,
Badulla,
29th July, 2013.
08-603/2
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.