

<!-- page 1 -->

1
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.07'25
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 25.07.2025
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of pub lication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  15th August, 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st August, 2025.                                
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 S. D. Pandikorala,  
 Government Printer (Acting).  
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
69 - 82703 - 000 (07/2025)
 Page Page
 
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases  ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 70
 wxl 2"447 - 2025 cQ,s ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2025'07'25 
 No. 2,447 - FRIDAy , JuLy 25, 2025


<!-- page 2 -->

70
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025.07'25
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 25.07.2025
Miscellaneous Notices
In  The  hIGh  couRT  of  The  WeSTeRn  PRovInce  ( hoLDen  In  
coLombo)  In  The  exeRcISIe  of  ITS  cIvIL juRISDIcTIon 
in the matter of Browns Pilling (Private) Limited, having its 
registered office at No. 112, Havelock Road, Colombo 05 .
   
Case No. : hc (civil) 27/2025/co.
Nature  :  Winding up 
   And
In the matter of an application for winding-up by Court under 
and in terms of Part XII of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.
1. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Indika Susantha 
Weerasinghe
No. 145, Dambawela, Gurudeniya.
2. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Roshan Prasanna 
Weerasinghe
No. 228/F, yakdehigedarawatta,
Dambawela Road, Gurudeniya.
Carrying on business in partnership under the name, 
style and firm of "Weerasinghe Construction" at No. 
145, Dambawela, Gurudeniya.
   Petitioners.
Notice is hereby given that a petition for the winding  up of the above named Company by the High Court of the Western 
Province Holden in Colombo (In the exercise of the Civil Jurisdiction) was on the 21
st day of May 2025 presented to the  said 
Court by Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Indika Susantha Weerasinghe of No. 145, Dambawela, Gurudeniya and Weerasinghe 
Mudiyanselage Roshan Prasanna Weerasinghe, No. 228/F, yakdehigedarawatta, Dambawela Road, Gurudeniya and the said 
petition  is directed to be heard before the said Court on the 06th day of August 2025, and any creditor or contributory of the 
said Company desirous to support or oppose the making of and order on the said petition may appear at the time of hearing 
in person or by his Counsel or registered attorney for that purpose and a copy of the petition will be furnished to any creditor 
of contributory of the said company requiring the same, by the undersigned on payment of the prescribed charge for the same,
   Name : D. M. Danushika G. Dissanayake
   Address : No. 41/D, Belmont Street, Colombo 12.
Note.- 
Any person who intends to appear at the hearing of the said Petition must serve on or send by post to the above  named 
Attorney-at-Law Ms. D. M. Danushika G. Dissanayake notice in writing of his intention so to do The notice must state the 
name and address of the person, or, if a firm, the name and address of the firm, and must be signed by the person or firm, or 
his or their  registered attorney,  if any, and must be served, or if posed, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the 
above named not later than 6 O' clock in the afternoon of the 04
th day of August 2025.
D. M. Danushika G. Dissanayake
Registered Attorney for the Petitioners.
07-815
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.