

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2748
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2744
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"097 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'11'09
No. 2,097 –  FRiday ,  NoVEmbER 09, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th November, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th November, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2741-b 81466- 5,403 (11/2018)
N. B.–    (i) Parts iii and iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,096 of 02.11.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2742
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2743
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2744
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Power and Renewable Energy 
REcRuitmENt FoR thE PoSt oF LEGaL oFFicER (ExEcutiVE catEGoRy GRadE iii) oN oPEN baSiS
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Legal Officer in the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy from the Sri 
Lankan citizens who have fulfilled the below mentioned qualifications.
1. Method of  Recruitment.– applicants who obtained maximum marks from a Structured interview conducted by 
an interview board appointed by Public services Commission out of applicants who have completed qualifications specified 
in the notice will be recruited to fill the existing vacancy. The Structured Interview will be held in conformity with the 
marking scheme (under No. 6) approved by Public Services commission.
`
2. Required Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational / Professional Qualifications.– a degree in Law from a university recognized by the university 
Grant commission or being taken oaths as an attorney -at-Law in the Supreme court. 
 (ii) experience.– Should have an active professional service period not less than 3 years after taking oaths as 
an attorney at law.
 (iii) Physical Qualifications.– Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the 
island and to perform duties in the post.
 (iv) Other Qualifications :
 • Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 • Should be of excellent character
 • Requisite qualifications for this post should have been completed in every aspect as at the closing date 
of applications.
3. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent,
 (ii) this post is pensionable. you are subject to the policy decision taken by the Government in the future 
regarding the pensions entitled to you. Further, you shall contribute for the widows’/widowers’ and orphans 
pensions’ scheme. you should make contribution as time to time ordered by the Government.
 (iii) This appointment will be subject to a probation period of three (3) years .Officers should pass the first 
efficiency bar examination within three years of the appointment as mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment.
 (iv) in terms of the provision of Public administration and the provision and circulars 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 
and incidental thereto, the applicant should affirm the obtaining of proficiency in official languages within 
five years of recruitment.
 (v) this appointment will subject to the procedural rules of Public Service commission and amendments 
and the provisions that have been already made and will be made in future to the relevant Recruitment 
Procedure of the post of Legal Officer of the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy .

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2745
4. age Limit.– Not less than 21 years of age and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of calling applications
5. Salary Scale.– Rs.47, 615 - 10 x 1,335, - 8x1, 630-17x2, 170- Rs. 110,895 monthly salaries will be paid for this 
post (Public administration circular No. 03/2016 and Salary code of the SL-01-2016).
6.  Method of Recruitment.– Structured interview is based on the below marking scheme.
No. Subject marks maximum 
marks
Additional Educational Qualifications
degree in Law from a recognized university
- First  class
- Second class ( upper )
- Second class (Lower )
 
First  Class   in the final year of Law College
Second  Class   in the final year of Law College
Note: 10 marks should be given only First Class is obtained in the final exam)
(marks only for maximum qualifications- either LLB or Law college Qualifications
15
12
10
15
10
15
02. Professional Qualifications(maximum marks)
Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field  or  Post Graduate  Diploma in law issued by a 
recognized institute (05 marks for each diploma)
  
Diploma of not less than six months in relevant field offered  by a recognized institute 
(03 marks each for one diploma)
 
Certificate Course  of not less than three months in relevant field offered  by a recognized 
institute (02 marks for each certificate course) 
20
03. Additional Experience
Experience as attorney at Law in Government or private sector
- maximum 20 marks- five marks per each  year.
 -not less than six months and not more than one year-02 marks 
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by an Attorney at Law or 
President’s counsel or a judge with a service period not less than 20 years except three years 
of service period engaged in service as an Attorney at Law, to acquire basic qualifications)
 
20
04. Proficiency in English Language
Post graduate/degree/post LLb degree /LLb degree studied in English medium.
(all relevant question papers should be answered in English medium)
English Language diploma from a university recognized by university Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government. (01 year or 1500hrs)
English Language Certificate course from a university recognized by University Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government.
06 months/ 720 hours.
03 months / 360 hours.
20
10
07
05
20

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2746
No. Subject marks maximum 
marks
05. Computer Literacy.
 
Should have possessed a degree in information technology as a main subject from a 
university recognized by university Grants commission.
 
a diploma on information technology not less than one (01) year or 1500 hours from a 
Government Recognized institute.                           
 
A Certificate course on  information  technology of 
06 months/ 720 hours
03 months / 360 hours                                                                              
from a government recognized institute.
20
10
07
05
20
marks to be given by Skill Assessment Test 05
Total marks 100
 
7. Identities of the Applicants .– only those who have completed the application in all respect are summoned for 
the skill assessment test. Original copies of the certificates and duly certified copies of the certificates should be forwarded 
at the interview.
to certify the identity of the candidate at the interview, the identity cards mentioned below are accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of the department of Registration of persons. 
 (ii) Valid Passport.
8. Method of Application :
 (a) All the duly filled applications should be sent to the below mentioned address, 
    Secretary, 
    ministry of Power and Renewable Energy, 
    ananda coomaraswamy mawatha,
    colombo 07. 
  by the registered post to reach on or before 30.11.2018. applications which receive after the closing date will 
be rejected.
 (b)  “Application for the post of Legal Officer” Should be mentioned at the top left corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application. 
 (c) the signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/ 
Commissioner of Oaths/an Attorney-at-law/Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of three armed forces, 
a Gazetted Police Officer or an officer holding a permanent post in public service drawing consolidated 
monthly salary of Rs. 47,615/- or above.
 (d) candidates who are already in the Public or Provincial Public Services, should forward their applications 
through the respective heads of their department in which they are serving at present.
 (e) the applications which are not conformed to the prescribed specimen application will be rejected. No 
complaints will be admitted on loss or delay of applications. The name of the  examination specified under 
the heading of the Specimen shall be entered in English Language in addition to the Sinhala Language 
in the applications of the Sinhala medium and in English Language apart from tamil in tamil medium 
applications. applications should be prepared in 22-29 c.m. a4 papers. applications should be prepared as 
item No. 01 to 03 in the first page from item 04 to 09 in the second page and from item No. 10 in the third 
page and it should be clearly filled in applicant’s own hand writing.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2747
 (f) the calling letter for the interview will be sent in 
the name of candidate to the address produced in 
the application under register post.
 
9. Furnishing false particulars.– if any of the particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
the Recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in case 
such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to discontinue your service, subject to 
relevant disciplinary actions being taken.
10. The power of filling or not filing the vacancies is 
vested with the Public Service  commission.
 
by order of the Public Service commission,
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Power and 
 Renewable Energy.
No. 72, ananda coomaraswamy mawatha,
colombo 07.
Specimen application 
executive Service category-Structured interview for 
the recruitment for the poSt of  legal officer 
grade iii-2018
 
MINISTRy OF POWeR ANd ReNeWAble eNeRGy
(clearly mention the right Symbol / Number in the relevant 
cage)       
 
                                                                                                                           
(For Office Use only)
medium for the Structured interview :
  Sinhala - 2
  tamil           - 3
  English        - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0.  1.1  Full name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
                  (eg-:hERath mudiyaNSELaGE  SamaN  
  KumaRa GuNaWaRdENa)
   1.2 Last name first with initials at the end :–––––––. 
  (GuNW aRdENa, h.m.S.K)
   1.3  Full Name :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
   1.4  National identity card No. :
2.0  2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
   (in block capitals)
   2.2  Permanent address :–––––––––––. 
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
   2.3 address to send the admission card  :––––––––.
              (in block capitals)
3.0  3.1 Gender :
   Female -1 male-0
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.2  date of birth:   
  y ear  month date
   3.3 age as at 30.11.2018 :
  y ears  months days
  3.4 telephone Number :  
4.0  4.1  Educational Qualifications :
  Degree or the details of educational certificates 
related to taking oaths as an attorney -  at-Law in 
the Supreme court:
 (i) university or institute :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Degree or Name of the Educational Certificate 
:–––––––––––.
 (iii) Valid Date of the Degree Certificate   or the 
Educational Certificate :–––––––––––.
 (iv) class :–––––––––––.
5.0 Experience in the field (Law) :–––––––––––.
6.0 Experience in the computer Sector :–––––––––––.
7.0 Other educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
8.0  Proficiency in English :–––––––––––.
9.0  have you been convicted before a court of Law?
 y es                              No
 *  (indicate  in the relevant cage)
 (if "yes" explain)  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2748
10.0  Applicant's declaration :
 (a)  i do hereby honourly declare that the particulars 
given by me in the application are true and 
correct. i agree to bear the loss may be incurred 
by incomplete and/ or false  completion of any 
part of this. Further, i declare that all the parts in 
the application are completed accurately. 
 (b)  if my declaration is found to be false i am 
liable to be disqualified before selection and to 
dismissal if detected after the appointment.
 (c)  Further, i declare that i am bound to abide by 
the conditions enacted by the Public Service 
commission pertaining to the holding of this 
Structured interview.
 (d)  i will make no alternations to any fact mentioned 
in the application.
  ––––––––––––––,
  applicant's Signature.
date  :–––––––––––.
11.0  attestation of applicant's Signature:
i certify that mr/mrs./ms................., who is submitting 
this application is personally known to me, he/she has 
placed his/her signature in my presence on the................
day…………………        
 ––––––––––––––––,  
 Signature of the attester.
date  :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester  :–––––––––––.
Position  :–––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
12. attestation of the applicant’s Signature: 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss...................................
.................................... (Full  name) who applies for the post 
of Legal Officer in the Ministry of Power and Renewable 
Energy, is personally, known to me and he/she has placed 
his/her signature on …………..2017 in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester. 
   
date :–––––––––––.
Place :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester :–––––––––––. 
address :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the Head of the department/Institution 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss....................... who 
is working in this ministry/department/ institution, is 
presently working in the post of ................................. and 
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary 
action pending against him/her and no decision has been 
taken to impose any such in future. he/ She can/cannot 
be released from the service once he/she is selected for. 
       
 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the 
 Department or Authorized Officer.
 (Official Seal)
date :–––––––––––. 
11–334
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of DEfENCE 
Recruitment to the Post of Research Officer 
(Grade II) in an Institution affiliated to the Ministry 
of Defence on Limited Competitive basis - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan 
citizens to fill one vacancy existing in the post of Research 
Officer (Grade II) in an institution affiliated to the Ministry 
of defence.  
01.Mode of Recruitment .– Candidates who fulfill the 
following qualifications laid down in the notification will 
be recruited based on the results of a structured interview 
conducted by an interview board appointed by the Secretary, 
ministry of defence, depending on the number of vacancies. 
Structured interviews will be held in accordance with the 
marking scheme (indicated under No. 05) approved by the 
Public Service commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational/Professional  Qualifications.– 
  having obtained a special degree from a 
university recognized by the university Grants 
commission ; 
or 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2749
  General degree with a post graduate or a post 
graudate diploma from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission. (the 
relevant degree certificates should be attached)
 (ii) experience.– Being an officer who is 
knowledgeable in research and possesses active 
and satisfactory service period of not less than 
five years in the associated service category or 
Development Officers' Service)
  (the service record should clearly show the 
period, date of obtaining experience and official 
stamp and should be submitted at the interview)
 (iii) Physical requirments.– Every applicant should 
be physically and mentally fit to perform duties 
of the post and to serve in any part of the island. 
 (iv) Other Qualifications :
  must be a Sri Lankan citizen,
  must have an excellent character,
  Must have fulfilled the qualifications for the 
recruitment to the post at the closing date of 
application.
03. Terms and Conditions of employment : 
 (i) the post is permanent and pensionable and 
the officer should contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) the appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of one year and the appointees should 
pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination 
within 03 years from the date of appointment 
as specified in the scheme of recruitment. 
 (iii) in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 the successful 
candidates should obtain the relevant 
proficiency in the official language other than 
the official language through which they joined 
the public service within a period of 5 years 
from recruitment to the post and those who join 
the Public Service in a language medium which 
is not an official language, should obtain the 
required official language proficiency within 
the probationary period. 
 (iv) this appointment is subject to the procedural 
rules of the Public Service commission, the 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations 
of the Government and other departmental 
Regulations. 
04. Salary Code.– the monthly salary scale attached 
to the post is Rs. 36,585 -10x660 - 11x755 - 15x930 -                       
Rs. 65,440 (Public administration circular No. 03/2016 
dated 25.02.2016)
(the salary is paid in line with the provisions in Public 
administration circular No. 3/2016 dated 25.02.2016 as 
mentioned in Schedule ii of the same).
05. the structured interview will be based on the 
following marking scheme. 
Subject Maximum 
Marks 
Passed 
Marks
Service Experience 35
Not 
relevant
additional Educational 
Qualifications
20
Professional Experience 20
computer Literacy 10
Language Proficiency 10
Skills demonstrated at the 
interview
05
total 100
06. Identity of Candidates.– only the candidates who 
have forwarded fully completed applications will be called 
for the structured interview :
The original and certified copies of all certificates should 
be submitted at the interview. 
The following is accepted to confirm the identity of 
candidates at the interview :
 (i) National identity card  issued by the commissioner 
General of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
 
07. Submission of Applications :
 (i) Duly filled applications should be sent under 
registered post to reach Secretary, miistry 
of defence. No. 15/5, baladaksha mawatha, 
colombo 03 on or before 09.12.2018. all 
applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2750
 (ii) a specimen application is attached at the end of 
this notice. application should be prepared on an 
a4 sheets and should contain details from No. 
01-4.3 on the first page and the rest on the next 
page and it should be completed in the applicant's 
own hand writing.
 (iii) the top left hand corner of the envelope should 
mention the post applied for "Research Officer 
Grade ii - Limited recruitment".
 (iv) The officers in Public Service and Provincial 
Public Service should submit applications 
through their heads of departments. 
 (v) applications which have not been submitted 
according to the above stated specimen form 
will be rejected and complaints regarding lost or 
delayed applications will not be entertained. 
08. Furnishing false particulars.– if any of the paticulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in 
case such false or erroneous particulars are detected after 
recruitment, action will be taken to discontinue your service 
and you will be subjected to relevant disciplinary actions. 
09. the Secretary of ministry of defence reserves the 
right to either fill or not fill the vacancies for the post. 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of defence. 
No. 15/5, baladaksha mawatha, 
colombo 03,
25th october, 2018.
For office use only 
miNiStRy oF dEFENcE
recruitment to the poSt of reSearch officer (grade ii) 
in an inStitution affiliated to the miniStry of defence on 
limited competitive BaSiS
1.0 Name :
   1.1 Name with initials : mr./mrs./miss :––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) 
   1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
    (in Engilsh block capitals)
   1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
    (Sinhala/tamil)
2.0   2.1 Personal address :––––––––––.
   2.2 Office address :––––––––––.
   2.3 telephone Number :––––––––––.
3.0   3.1 Ethnicity :
    (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, muslim - 3, other - 4)
   3.2 Gender :
male Female
     
   3.3 civil Status :    
married unmarried
   3.4 National identity card No. : 
   3.5 date of birth : 
    y ear :–––––––. month :–––––––. date :–––––––.
4.0  4.1 Educational Qualifications (The relevant Degree 
Certificates should be attached) :
General/
Special 
degree
Post Graduate/
diploma
degree
university/
institution
Effective date 
of degree
  4.2 Other Educational Qualifications :
  4.3 Professional Experience :
Service 
of current 
Position
Place 
of 
work
Service in field of research
year Month date
  4.4 Language proficiency (Highest examination 
passed) :
 (i) Sinhala :––––––––––.
 (ii) t amil :––––––––––.
 (iii) English :––––––––––.
  4.5 Service Experience : 
 (i) active and satisfactory service as at 
31.12.2017 :
  y ears :–––––. months :–––––. dates :–––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2751
 (ii) Details of no pay leave in the past five years 
as at 31.12.2017 :––––––––––––.
5.0  Certificate of the Applicant :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this 
application by me are true and correct. i am also aware that 
if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect before appointment. I am iable to be disquailfied 
and if found after appointment, i am liable to be dismissed 
from service without any compensation. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
6.0 Certificate of the Head of Department :
i certify that mr./mrs./ms. ..................................... (Full 
Name) who submits this application, has been employed in 
the office from ........................... that he/she has completed 
an active and satisfactory service period of five years before 
31.12.2017, that i have personally checked the particulars 
given in the application against office records, that his/her 
work attendance and conduct have been ........................, that 
he/she has not been subject to any disciplinary action for 
an offence (except cautioning) during that period and that 
he/she placed his/her signature on .............................. in my 
presence. 
he/She can/cannot be released from the current position. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of head of department. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
11–521/1
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of DEfENCE 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
for Research Officer (Grade II) in an Institution 
affiliated to the Ministry of Defence - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan 
citizens to fill 10 (ten) vacancies existing in the post of 
Research Officer (Grade II) in an institution affiliated to the 
ministry of defence.  
01.Mode of Recruitment .– the candidates with the 
required qualifications mentioned in the advertisement 
will be called for a written examination conducted by an 
institution approved by the ministry of defence and the 
results of the same will be taken into consideration when 
filling in the vacancies. The selected candidates will be 
interviewed by a penal appointed by the Secretary, ministry 
of defence. candidates with the highest marks will be 
selected to fill the vacancies. Structured interviews will 
be held as per the marking scheme approved by the Public 
Service commission. (mentioned under No. 06)
02. Salary Code.– the monthly salary scale attached 
to the post is Rs. 36,585 -10x660 - 11x755 - 15x930 - 
Rs. 65,440. (the salary is paid in line with the provisions 
in Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 - mN/6-2016).
03. this post is subject to policy decisions taken by 
the Government on permanent and pension scheme in due 
course. 
04. Required Qualifications :
 * must be a Sri Lankan citizen,
 * the candidates should be not less than 21 
and not more than 35 on the closing date for 
application. 
 * must have an excellent character.
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :- 
  a pplicants should possess a degree and a post 
graduate qualification obtained from a university 
approved by the university Grants commission 
or from an institution approved by the university 
Grants commission. (the relevant degree 
Certificates should be attached).
 (ii) Physical requirments.– Every applicant should 
be physically and mentally fit to perform duties 
of the post and to serve in any part of the island. 
 (iii) Other Qualifications. – Must have fulfilled the 
qualifications in all aspects for the recruitment 
to the post at the closing date of application. 
05. Terms and Conditions of employment : 
 (i) the appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of 03 years. after recruitment to the post 
of Research Officer Grade II, the officer should 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2752
complete the first efficiency bar examination as 
specified in the scheme of recruitment. 
 (ii) in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 the successful 
candidates should obtain the relevant 
proficiency in the official language other than 
the official language through which they joined 
the public service with a period of 5 years from 
recruitment to the post and those who joined 
the Public Service in a language medium which 
is not an official language, should obtain the 
required official language proficiency within 
the probationary period. 
 (iii) this appointment is subject to the procedural 
rules of the Public Service commission, the 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations 
of the Government and to other departmental 
Regulations. 
06. examination Criteria.– the exam consists of two 
papers and will be held in all three languages. the requested 
medium will not be changed thereafter.
Examination subjects and marks are shown as follows :
Subject Time Marks Pass Marks
aptitude test 01 hour 100 40%
Subject knowledge 02 hours 100 40%
Aptitude test.– consists of words, numbers and diagrams 
for which, the conclusions and responses given by the 
candidate will determine the ability of the candidate to 
understand reletions between meaning qualification and 
space. the paper will also include multiple choice questions 
and questions for which short answers are expected. 
Subject knoweldge.– the following areas/subjects will 
be tested in detail : economy, politics, security, international 
relations, management, science and technology, education, 
health, sports, environment, society and culture of Sri Lanka 
as well as the world. 
Examination fee is Rs. 1,000, non refundable which can 
be credited to bank of ceylon (t aprobane branch) acc. 
No. 0007040119 of the ministry of defence. Payment can 
be made at any branch of the bank of ceylon. duly paid 
deposit slip should be pasted on the relevant page. Please 
keep a photocopy of the deposit slip for future reference. 
No Postal orders or Stamps will be accepted in liue of the 
payment. 
the structured interview will be based on the following 
marking scheme. 
Subject Maximum 
Marks 
Marks 
obtained
additional Educational 
Qualifications
15
50%
Professional qualifications 
relevant to the post
15
Professional Experience 35
computer Literacy 10
Language Proficiency 10
Skills demonstrated at the 
interview
05
total 100
07. Identity of candidates .– only those candidates who 
have forwarded fully completed applications will be called 
for the structured interview :
The original and certified copies of all certificates should 
be submitted at the interview. 
The following will be accepted at the interview to confirm 
the identity of candidates :
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner 
General of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
 
08. Submission of Applications :
 (i) Duly filled applications should be sent under 
registered post to reach Secretary, ministry 
of defence. No. 15/5, baladaksha mawatha, 
colombo 03 on or before 09.12.2018. all 
applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected. 
 (ii) a specimen application is attached at the end of 
this notice. application should be prepared on 
a4 sheets and should contain details from No. 1 
to 2.6 on the first page from 3.00 to 5.00 on the 
second page and the rest on the third page and 
should be completed in the applicant's own hand 
writing.
 (iii) the top left hand corner of the envelope should 
mention the post applied for “Research Officer 
Grade ii - open recruitment”.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2753
 (iv) The officers in Public Service and Provincial Public Service should submit applications through their heads of 
departments. 
 (v) applications which have not been submitted according to the above stated specimen form will be rejected and 
complaints regarding lost or delayed applications will not be entertained. 
09. Furnishing false particulars.– if any of the particulars furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous 
before the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in case such false or erroneous particulars are detected after 
recruitment, action will be taken to discontinue your service and you will be subjected to relevant disciplinary actions. 
10. The Secretary of the Ministry of Defence reserves the right to either fill or not fill the vacancies for the post. 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of defence. 
No. 15/5, baladaksha mawatha, 
colombo 03,
25th october, 2018.
miNiStRy oF dEFENcE
open competitive examination for recruitment for reSearch officer (grade ii) in an inStitution 
affiliated to the miniStry of defence - 2018
    index Number :
    For office use only
    medium of Examination : 
    Sinhala - 2  t amil - 3  English - 4
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
medium of examination cannot be changed. 
1.0 Name :
   1.1 Name in full (in English block Letters) : mr./mrs./miss :––––––––––.
    (ex. : hERath  mudiyaNSELaGE  buddhiKa  SamPath  KumaRa  GuNaWaRdhaNa) 
   1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other names at the end (in block Letters) :––––––––––.
    (ex. : GuNaWaRdENa, h. m. b. S. K.)
   1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
    (Sinhala/tamil)
   1.4 Ethnicity :  Sinhala - 1,  tamil - 2,  muslim - 3,  other - 4
 
   1.5 National identity card No. : 
   1.6 Sex :  Female - 1 male - 0
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0   2.1 Permanent address (in block Letters) :––––––––––.
   2.2 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2754
   2.3 Office address (In Block Letters) :––––––––––.
   2.4 Office address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
   2.5 address to which admission should be sent (in block Letters) :––––––––––.
   2.6 telephone Number :––––––––––.
3.0   3.1 marital Status : unmarried - 1 married - 2 
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   3.2 date of birth :
year month date
    
   3.3 age as at 09.12.2018 :    
years months days
4.0 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
  4.1 Basic degree qualification (The relevant Degree Certificates should be attached) :
   4.1.1 degree :––––––––––.
   4.1.2 External/internal :––––––––––.
   4.1.3 Subjects :––––––––––.
   4.1.4 Date qualified for the degree :––––––––––.
   4.1.5 university :––––––––––.
  4.2 Post Graduate Qualification (The relevant Degree Certificates should be attached) :
degree Subjects/Field level of Class year University
  4.3 computer literacy :
Course duration Institute year
  4.4 Proficiency in English Language (mention the courses followed) :––––––––––.
  4.5 Professional Qualifications relevant to the field : 
Course duration Institute year
5.0  Professioal Experience : 
Position Institution/division From To
6.0. Examination Fees : 
   6.1 Name of the branch to which payment was made :––––––––––.
   6.2 amount :––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'09
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.11.2018
2755
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
   6.3 date of payment :
Paste one side of the bank deposit slip 
(Keep a photocopy of the invoice)
declaration by the applicant :
(Sign before the person certifying) details mentioned 
herein are true and accurate to the best of my knoweldge, 
and the bank deposit slip relating to the examination fee is 
pasted. i will hereby abide by any decision taken before, 
during or after the examination, if I am deemed not qualified 
to sit for the exam in accordance with rules and regulations 
relating to the conducting of the examination, further i will 
abide by all rules and regulation stipulated concerning the 
conducting of the examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
7.0 Certification of the Signature :
this is to certify that mr./mrs./miss. ..............................
......... submitting the application on .......................... placed 
his/her signature before me and that he/she has pasted 
the bak deposit slip on the application after paying the 
examination fee. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
8.0 Recommendation by the head of department/institution :
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ........................ 
submitting the application is employed in this institution as a 
............................. (post) and that, necessary actions will be 
taken to release him/her from the service of this institution 
if he/she is selected for the above post. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the institution.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
 
11–521/2