

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by  Hon. (Mrs.) Sriyani Wijewickrama, M.P.  for
Digamadulla District on 09th July, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 253]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on June 17, 2013)
SIVMUNI SE VEHERA BUDDHIST FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 007284—75  (05/2013)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SIVMUNI SE VEHERA BUDDHIST
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation  called and known as the
“Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation” has heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be expedient  to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sivmuni Se Vehera
Buddhist Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the  Sivmuni
Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the
“Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as the  “Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and
be sued, with full power and authority to have and  use a common
seal and  to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to maintain the activities of the “Sivmuni Se Vehera”
Buddhist Centre at No. 1, 8th Aveneue, Navagampura,
Ampara ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Sivmuni Se
Vehera
Buddhist
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to shape up the society according to the Buddhist
Vision to ensure righteous and religious society ;
(c) to assist and make donations to elders, preschool
children and students for their education ;
(d) to protect sacred places related to Buddhism and
conservation and development of hishorical
monuments that were recognized by a Parliament Act
or any legal enactment ; and
(e) to educate the Buddhists by conducting training
programme to conserve natural resources which were
declared to be conserved by a Parliament Act or any
other provision, conduction environmental friendly
programmes; enhancing and couraging to promote
chemical free agricultural product.
4. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, and matters  as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion, or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power:—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind ;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security ;
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine ;
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any
person, or body of persons whether incorporated in
Sri Lanka or abroad or with any Government
Department, Corporation, Board, Provincial
Council or Local Authority for the achievement of
the objects of the Corporation ;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership ;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the  rules made under the
provision 6 of this Act, be administered by an Executive
Committee consisting of the Director General, the Chairman,
Deputy Chairman, the Secretary, Deputy Secretary,
Administrative and Propogating Secretary, Three Additional
Secretaries and a Treasurer.
(2) The  Executive Committee of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Executive Committee of the
day immediately preceding the date of the commencement
of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
than two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matter:—
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal expulsion or resignation of members
and for the maintaining of register of members ;
30
Management
of the
Corporation.
35
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from, office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the
Corporation any any sub-committee thereof,
including the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat ;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for members
of the Board and the Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be  amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to  rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management  shall determine.
30
Fund of the
Corporation
and the
Corporation
to be a non
profit making
organization.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bouns or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
Provided however, that the provision of this section shall
not prohibit—
(a) the payment, in good faith, of reasonable and proper
remuneration to any officer or servants of the
Corporation for any services rendered by him to
the Corporation;
(b) the payment of reasonable and proper rent for
premises let to the Corporation or by any company
of which a member of the Corporation is a
shareholder ; and
(c) the reimbursement or repayment of reasonable and
proper expenses incurred, with the prior approval
of the Board of Management, by any member, officer
or servant of the Corporation in the discharge or
performance of his functions or duties or in
promoting the objects of the Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
Corporation
may hold
preperty
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
20
25
30
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take  and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of a member prescribed by the executive committee and it
shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
the presence of the Chairman and an another member of the
executive committee who shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not ne
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act,  and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sivmuni Se Vehera Buddhist Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .