

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"279 - 2022 uehs ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2022.05'06
No. 2,279 –  friday , 06  may ,  2022
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy, GAzETTE,
atteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th May, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th May, 2022.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2022.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
797 - B 082341 - 5,403 (05/2022)
N. B.–   (i) The List of Jurors in Kegalle District Jurisdiction Areas in year 2022 has been Published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
tamil and english languages.
 (ii) Part I:II(A) and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2278 of 29.04.2022 were not published.
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 801
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 800 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
798
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
regulations, the establishments code, departmental orders or regulations 
and any other orders or regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
799
Rules  and   Instructions  for  candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
800
Posts - vacant 
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/
Additional marriages 
(kandyan/General)
Sinhala medium
monaragala District
APPLICATIONS are called for the post of Registrar of 
Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages for the 
divisions set out in the schedule hereof ;
 01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant 
Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages 
division and entitled to reasonable properties and 
should be a person with outstanding personality 
who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
 02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this 
post.
 03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not 
more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of 
the applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 
years)
 04. Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages 
should be married and should  be a widow/widower 
or divorced.
 05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 
subjects including Sinhala language with 02 
Credit Passes in not more than Two (02) sittings in  
GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability 
to perform duties in secondary language as per the 
language requirement of the populate within the 
division or else should have passed in any other 
similar examination.
N.B. -  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE 
(O/L) or any other similar examination, it 
shall be considered as one subject and pass 
is applicable only if the applicant passes  
both parts of the said subject.
 06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the 
office in a centrally located building that ensures  
respect of the post and easy access by all or majority 
of residents.
 07. Additional details such as village name list/Grama 
Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births, 
Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant 
educational and other qualifications required for 
this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited 
in public places within the division such as District 
secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant land 
and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, 
Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post 
Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said "Annex - 01" 
inclusive of village name list/Grama Niladhari 
Divisions could be collected from District 
Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District 
Registry of Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website  
(www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or 
before 06.06.2022 by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
   
 P. S. P. 
abeywardhane,
  registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
on this 08 day of april 2022,
SCHEDULE
District Divisional 
Secretariat
Post & Division 
for which Appli-
cations are called
Address 
to which 
Applications 
should be sent
monar-
agala
Siyambal-
anduwa
Post of Births and 
deaths registrar 
of Govindupura 
division and 
marriages 
registrar 
(Kandyan/
General) of 
Siyambalanduwa 
division
District 
Secretary/
additional 
registrar 
General, 
District 
Secretariat, 
monaragala
05 - 07

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
801
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c., 
mINISTRy  Of  PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION,  
hOmE  AffAIRS,  PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS  
AND  LOCAL  GOvERNmENT
Public Service Commission
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  ExAMINATION  FOR  
PROMOTION  OF  THE  OFFICERS  IN  GRADE  I  
OF  SRI  LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE  TO  
SPECIAL  GRADE  -  2020  (2022)
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Minute of 
Sri Lanka Technological  Service, published in the Gazette 
extraOrdinary No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015, the limited 
competitive examination for promotion of officers in Grade 
I of Sri Lanka Technological Service to Special Grade will 
be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations, in 
colombo, in the month of August 2022.  Secretary of Public 
Administration reserves the right to cancel or postpone this 
examination subject to the instructions of Public Service 
commission.
 02. Officers who have satisfied the following 
qualifications as at 31.12.2020 shall apply for this 
examination.
 I. Officers who have completed at least an active 
and satisfactory service of five (5) years in 
Grade I of Supervisory Management Assistant 
- Technological Service Category of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service and have earned the five 
(5) salary increments.
 II. Officers who have completed a satisfactory 
service of five (5) years immediately preceding 
the date of promotion.
 III. Officers who have passed the Third Efficiency 
Bar Examination.
 03. Following salary scale shall be applicable to the 
officers in Special Grade.
  (MN-7-2016 Step 4) Rs. 43,845 - 8 x 755 - 18 x 1030 
- Rs. 68,425
 04. Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade of 
Sri Lanka Technological Service shall be in the 
following manner.
 i. Vacancies in each post in Special Grade of Sri 
Lanka Technological Service existing at each 
department and ministry from 01.01.2020 to 
31.12.2020 shall be filled on the results of this 
examination.
 ii. The results of the limited competitive 
examination for Promotion to the Special Grade 
shall  strictly be applicable to fill the vacancies 
existing from 01.01.2020 to 31.12.2020
 iii. Percentage of Recruitment
  Limited                            40%
  Service Experience and Merit   60%
 iv. At the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 04, the percentage of recruitment under 
the limited competitive examination shall be 
25% and the percentage of recruitment under 
service experience and merit shall be 75%. At 
the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 03, the percentage of recruitment under 
the above limited competitive examination shall  
be 33.33% and the percentage of recruitment 
under service experience and merit shall  be 
66.66%.
 v. In case the number of vacancies in the Special 
Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service is 
more than 04, the filling of vacancies should 
be carried out on the results of the Limited 
Competitive Examination subject to the 
percentages mentioned in para 04. iii above.
 
 vi. Promotion to Special Grade shall be made by 
the Public Service Commission to be effective 
from the date of examination on the order of 
merit of the examination and the number of 
vacanceis, after verifying by an interview board 
appointed by the Public Service Commission 
that the other relevant qualifications have also 
been fulfilled by those who have passed on the 
results of the limited competitive examination 
for promotion to Special Grade conducted by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations 
on behalf of the Secretary. Ministry of Public 
administration.
 vii. Officers, out of the applicants who have satisfied 
the basic qualifications shall be considered for 
the relevant promotions as per order of merit at 
the time of filling the vacancies.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
802
 05. The specimen application for admission to 
this examination is published at the end of this 
notification. Candidates are required to prepare 
their application in accordance with the specimen 
form and officers in the Public Service should 
forward their applications through the respective 
head of department and officers in the provincial 
Public Service should forward their applications 
through the Secretary of Public Service Commission 
in the provincial council where they serve, by 
registered post to reach the Commissioner General 
of Examinations, Organizations (Institutional and 
Foreign Examinations) Branch, Department of 
Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before 
03.06.2022. The top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should bear clearly the 
title of the examination. Applications received after 
the closing date of applications will be rejected.
 06. Proof of Identity :
  candidates should prove their identity at the 
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of 
the following documents is accepted.
 (a) The National Identity Card,
 (b) Valid passport,
 (c) Valid Sri Lankan driving license.
  Candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering their faces and ears enabling to prove their 
identity. Any candidate who refuses to prove his 
or her identity shall not be allowed to enter to the 
examination hall. Further, the candidates should 
remain their face and ears uncovered until they leave 
the examination hall after the examination, enabling 
the invigilators to identify them.
  Note :
  However, the candidates should adhere to the health 
guidelines issued by the ministry of Health due to 
the COVID 19 pandemic.
 07. Application :
 i. Applications should  be prepared in a paper A4 
in size using both sides. No. 01 to 05 should 
appear on the first page. Applications could  be 
typed but they should be completed correctly 
and legibly by the candidate in his/her own 
handwriting.
 ii. When preparing the application, the title of the 
examination should be written in English in 
addition to Sinhala on Sinhala applications and 
Tamil on Tamil applications. Applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and have not 
been duly perfected shall be rejected without 
notice. Therefore, the candidates themselves 
should make sure that the perfected applications 
are in conformity with the specimen form. It is 
advisable to keep a photo copy of the application 
form with the candidate.
 iii. Candidates are not allowed to change the 
language medium selected by them in their 
applications. If applications are received in all 
three language media. i.e. Sinhala, Tamil and 
English, the examination will be held in those 
three language media. However, candidates 
should answer all the question papers in one and 
the same language selected by them.
 iv. Candidates who appear for this examination 
for the first time are not required to pay any 
examination fee. However, if a subsequent 
sitting, an examination fee of Rs. 600 should 
be paid at any Post Office/Sub Post Office or 
District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to 
Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. The receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 
application form. Money Orders or Stamps are 
not accepted for examination fees. It is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. The fee 
shall not be paid  back or shall not be allowed 
to transfer in respect of any other examination 
under any circumstances.
 08. 
i. The Commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates 
who have forwarded duly perfected applications 
along with the receipt if payment of examination 
fee on or before the closing date of examination 
mentioned in the Notification is applicable, 
medium of examination, public service to 
which the applicant belongs, signature of the 
applicant and the attestation of the signature, 
recommendation and certification of the Head 
of the department, on the presumption that only 
those who possess the qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette Notification have applied. 
Officers sitting for the examination must get 
his signature on the admission card attested in 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
803
advance and produce to the supervisor of the 
examination center. It will not be allowed to 
sit for the examination without such admission 
card. Further, issuance of an admission card to 
a candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
 
 ii. As soon as the admission cards are issued 
to candidates, Department of Examinations 
will publish a notice announcing the same 
in newspapers and the official web site of the 
department. If the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
it should be inquired from the Organizations 
Branch, Department of Examinations in the 
manner as mentioned in the notification. The 
applicant should correctly mention the name 
of the examination applied for, full name of 
the applicant, national identity card number 
and address when making such inquiry. In case 
of applicants outside Colombo, it would be 
advisable to make the request sending a letter 
of request stating the same to the fax number 
mentioned in the Notification along with a fax 
number to which a copy of the admission card 
can be sent promptly. It would be useful to have 
the following documents in hand at the time of 
calling the Department of Examinations, i.e. a 
photocopy of the application form, receipt of 
payment of examination fees (if applicable) and 
receipt of registration.
 iii. Candidate shall get his/her signature on the 
application and the admission card attested by the 
Head of the institution or an officer authorized 
by him. Candidate shall sit for the examination 
at the examination hall assigned to him under 
the specific number given to him and produce 
his admission card with his signature attested 
to the supervisor of the examination center on 
the day of the examination. Any candidate who 
fails to produce his admission card shall not be 
permitted to sit for the examination. 
 09. The documents furnished later by the candidates 
who have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated 
in Para (08) above will not be considered.
 10. Issuance of the results of the examination.
  Actions shall be taken to issue the results of this 
examination to the Secretary of the Public Service 
commission.
 11. Scheme of Examination.
  This examination shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and 
english media and the language medium applied for 
shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
 (i). Examination for promotion of officers in Class 
1 to Special Class will consist of 2 question 
papers.
 (1) Aptitude Test - Duration 1 hour - 100 marks
 (2) Management - Duration 3 hours - 100 marks
  Candidates shall be required to obtain a 
minimum of 40% of the marks for each question 
paper to be qualified.
  Syllabus of the first question paper shall be as 
follows :
  Aptitude Test - Subject No. (1)
  A test designed to assess as to whether the officer 
has acquired knowledge, skills and attitudes 
required for the fulfillment of tasks entrusted to 
him/her in an efficiency beyond the performance 
at average level and whether the officer displays 
competency in the application of the above. 
This question paper consists of 50 questions in 
the form of Multiple Choice and Questions for 
Short answers and all the questions should be 
answered.
  Syllabus of the second question paper will  be as 
follows :
  management - Subject No. (2)
 (i) Principles of Management
 (ii) Management functions
   Planning
   Decision Making
   Process of decision making
   Organization
   Staffing
   Directing
   Motivation Process
   Leadership
   control
   Process of Controlling
 (iii) Participatory Management
 (iv) Management Environment
 (v) Case Study

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
804
  This is a structured essay type question paper. 
All the questions should  be answered.
 12. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in conducting the examination 
and issuing the results. candidates are liable to 
be subjected to a punishment imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach 
of these rules. In accordance with the regulations 
relevant to this notification, if a candidate is found 
to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be 
cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the 
examination.
 13. The Decision of the Secretary of the Public Service 
Commission will be the final in respect of any matter 
not provided for in this notification.
 14. In case of an inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil 
and English text of this Gazette notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission
  
  
 J. J. rathnasiri, 
 Secretary. 
 Ministry of Public Administration 
 internal affairs, 
 Provincial Councils & 
 Local Government.
28.04.2022
Ministry of Public Administration Internal Affairs, 
Provincial Councils & Local Government,
Independence Square, Colombo 07.
Specimen appLication Form
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha i fYa%‚fha ks,Orhka úfYaI fY%a‚hg Wiia lsÍfï  
iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2020 (2022)
Limited Competitive Examination for Promotion of the Officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service to  
Special Grade  – 2020 (2022)
Medium in which the officer appears for the examination  
(Sinhala - 2 / Tamil - 3 / English - 4 (Indicate the relevant number in the Cage)
01 (a) Indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public Service or which Public Service
 (Indicate the number relevant to the Public Service to which you belong)
Language medium to appear for the structured interview
(For Office use only)
Public Service No.
central Government 10
Western Provincial 01
Central Provincial 02
Southern Provincial 03
Northern Provincial 04
Public Service No.
Eastern Provincial 05
North Western Provincial 06
North Central Province 07
Uva Provincial 08
Sabaragamuwa Provincial 09

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
805
  
 (b)  Name in Full (in English block capital letters): ............................................................................................................
  (Eg: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 (c) Name with initials at the end: (In English Block capital letters) 
  (Eg: GUNAWARDHANA,  H.M.S.K.)
  ......................................................................................................................................................................................
 (d) Name in Full (in Sinhala/ Tamil):
  ......................................................................................................................................................................................
 
 (e) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this address)
  ......................................................................................................................................................................................
  (In English capital letters)
  ......................................................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala/Tamil)
 (f) Sex                 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  
  (Male – 0 / Female - 1)
  
 (g) National Identity Card No. :
 (h) Mobile Number:
02.   Department which you belong to : ...............................................................................................................................
.
03.  Designation : ................................................................................................................................................................
04.  Period of service as at 31.12.2020 :
  Years:          Months:     Days:
05. (i) Date of Birth :  Year :                     Month :  Date :
 (ii) Age as at 31.12.2020 : Years:          Months:  Days:
  Receipt number of the examination fee -
  Office to which the fee was paid -
  Amount paid - 
  I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. furthermore, i hereby agree to be abided by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations in conducting the examination and issuing the results.
       
 ..................................................
  Date : ................................................ Signature of the Applicant.
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs. 600/- firmly, if not the first sitting.
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy)

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
806
Note :  Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to 
sign on his behalf or Head of the Regional Office.
Attestation of Candidate's signature
 I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………………………………………… is presently employed in my office 
and is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................................ and  
he/she is exempted from payment of examination he/has paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt.
 Date: ……………… ...............................................
  Signature of the attester
  Official Stamp.
Recommendation and Certification of the Head of the Department 
I.  Recommendation of the Head of the Department on the desciplinary inquiries that were carried on or are being 
carried on against the applicant :
 ......................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................
II.  I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01 - 05 above are correct, that this candidate is eligible to sit 
for the examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above and 
he/she is exempted from payment of examination fee/has paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt.
 
 .........……….................………………...............
 Signature and designation of the Head of Department
 Official Stamp.
Date : ................................................................
Note :  A certified copy should be sent to the personal file of the candidate and the other copy should be sent to reach 
department of examinations of Sri Lanka Promptly.
05 - 59

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
807
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2022'05'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.05.2022
808
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
the ScheduLe
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2022
  m Ay  06.05.2022 Friday — 22.04.2022 Friday  12 noon
13.05.2022 Friday –– 29.04.2022 Friday  12 noon
20.05.2022 Friday –– 06.05.2022 Friday  12 noon
27.05.2022 Friday –– 13.05.2022 Friday  12 noon
 JuNE  03.06.2022 Friday — 20.05.2022 Friday  12 noon
10.06.2022 Friday –– 27.05.2022 Friday  12 noon
17.06.2022 Friday –– 03.06.2022 Friday  12 noon
24.06.2022 Friday –– 10.06.2022 Friday  12 noon
 JuLy 01.07.2022 Friday — 17.06.2022 Friday  12 noon
08.07.2022 Friday –– 24.06.2022 Friday  12 noon
15.07.2022 Friday –– 01.07.2022 Friday  12 noon
22.07.2022 f riday  –– 08.07.2022  f riday  12 noon
29.07.2022 Friday –– 15.07.2022 Friday  12 noon
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2022.
Printed   at   the   dePartMent   OF   gOVernMent   Printing,   sri LanKa.