

<!-- page 1 -->

1315 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
1315
¡â¤ 1, 471 _ 2006 ï¾åÉæ´Ú 10 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.11.10
No. 1,471 – FRIDAY ,  NOVEMBER  10,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1317
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... —
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th November, 2006, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 03rd November, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
Note:- British Education Representatives Association, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 13th October, 2006.
Note.– Sri Lanka Electricity Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka of 13th October, 2006.
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,470 of 03.11.2006 was not published.
A List of Medical Practitioners, Dentists and the persons entitled to practise Medicine and Surgery has been published in Part VI
of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
1316
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1317 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
Posts - Vacant
DIRF/RECT/239/AY .
CADETSHIP  IN  THE REGULAR  FORCE  OF  THE
SRI  LANKA  ARMY
APPLICATIONS are invited for cadetship  in the Regular Force of
the Sri Lanka Army. Selected candidates will be trained in Sri Lanka.
2. On successful completion of the period of military training and
academic subjects cadets will be commissioned in the rank of Second
Lieutenant.
3. Eligibility — Candidates should
(a) Be male citizens of Sri Lanka.
(b) Be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age as at 15th December, 2006.
(c) Have obtained Two passes at the GCE (A/L) Examination
(New Syllabus) in One sitting and Six subjects with Four
Credits including Sinhala/Tamil, English and Mathematics
in not more than two sittings at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
(d) Be 5' 5" and above in height.
(e) Be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst
under training.
(f) Conform to the required medical standard, all candidates
selected by the final interview board will be medically
examined under the arrangement of the Sri Lanka Army
before enlistment.
(g) Candidates with National Level and National School Level
performances will be considered with GCE (O/L)
qualifications.
4. Conditions of Service.
(a) Candidates will be enlisted as cadets on a normal regular
engagement for a period of ten years initially.
(b) The pay of an Officer Cadet while under training will be
Rs. 177,000.00 per annum in accordance with the Army
Pay Code. Transport, uniforms, medical facilities, food
and accommodation will be provided free  of charge. Officer
Cadets will not be entitled to any increments to pay during
the period of service as cadets.
(c) Cadets will be required to undergo such training as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Army. The period of
training will be approximately Twenty four (24) months.
(d) The Status of Cadets during this period will be that of an
other  ranks and they will be subjected to Military Law.
(e) (i) In the event of Cadet voluntarily terminating his
candidature for a commission during his period of
training, the parents or guardian will be required to
refund to the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred up to that time by
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the
Cadet’s  account.
(ii) If at any time during his course, a Cadet is reported
by the authorities to be unsuitable for reasons of
misconduct, or for causes within his own control for
the issue of a commission, his parents or guardian
will be required to refund to the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred by
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the
Cadet’s Account.
(f) On appointment to commission , Cadets will be discharged
from the Regular Force engagement they entered into  as
cadets.
(g) On commissioning as officers they will be expected to
serve the Army for a minimum period of  10 years.
(h) On commissioning as officers in the Regular Force on the
Sri Lanka Army in the commencing rank of Second
Lieutenant they will be placed on the following Salary
Scales applicable to the Officers of the Sri Lanka Army
(with effect from 01st January, 2007 as  per the Public
Administration Circular No. 6 of 2006.).
Second Lieutenant - Rs. 198,960 per annum
Rs. 16,580 per annum
Lieutenant - Rs. 275,220 - 30x7,740 =Rs. 507,420
per annum
Rs. 22,935 - 30x645 = Rs. 42,285
 per month
Captain - Rs. 321,660 - 24x7,740 = Rs. 507,420
per annum
Rs. 26,805 - 24x645 = Rs. 42,285
 per month
Major - Rs. 352,620 - 20x7,740 = Rs. 507,420
 per annum
Rs. 28,385 - 20x645 = Rs. 42,285 per month
Lt. Col. - Rs. 362,100 - 15x9,480 = Rs. 504,300
 per annum
Rs. 30,175 - 15x790 = Rs. 42,025  per month
Colonel - Rs. 441,060 - 14x12,600 = Rs. 642,660
 per annum
Rs. 38,855 - 14x1,050 = Rs. 53,555
 per month

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
1318
Brigadier - Rs. 466,260 - 14x12,600 = Rs. 642,660
 per annum
Rs. 38,855 - 14x1,050 = Rs. 53,555
per month.
Major General - Rs. 508,680 - 12x15,720 = Rs. 697,320
 per annum
Rs. 42,390 - 12 x1,310- = Rs. 58,110
 per month.
(i) Officer will be governed by the following regulation in
respect of their pay, prospects and conditions of
service.
(1) The Army  Pay Code.
(2) Regulations for Officers 1992, published in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Government Gazette No. 780/7 dated 17th
August, 1993 and as amended from  time to
time.
(3) The Army Pensions and Gratuities Code, 1981.
5. Parents or guardian will be required to sign a declaration as
shown in paragraph 6 which should be forwarded with the
application. Parents or guardian of selected candidates will be required
to enter into a bond substantially in the form of the declaration, with
the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka prior to the
appointment of these candidates.
6. Declaration to be signed by parent or guardian of the applicant
:
(a) I am the parent/guardian* of…………………………..who
is an applicant for a cadetship in the Army.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible, in the event of the
above-named applicant being selected to attend a course
of training in Sri Lanka for the following.
(1) All private expenses which the applicant may incur
during the period of his training.
(2) To refund to the  Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka  all the expenses incurred  on his account
by the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka in
the event of the above named applicant voluntarily
terminating his candidature for a commission during
the period of his training.
(3) To refund to the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka  all the expenses incurred on his account by
the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka  if at
any time during his period of training, the above-
named applicant is reported by the authorities to be
unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or for causes
within his control) for the issue of a commission.
* Strike out whichever is inapplicable.
Name and address of the parent/guardian :————.
 (in block capitals)
———————,
Signature.
Date :————.
Name and address of the witness
 (in block capitals) :————.
———————,
Signature.
Date :————.
Name and address of the witness
 (in block capitals) :————.
———————,
Signature.
Date :————.
7. Language Requirement.— Selected candidates will be required
to comply with any regulations already made or that may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka.
8. Proof of Identity.— Candidates will be required to  produce as
to their identity. National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Postmaster General or Certificate of
Competence issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic and
Passport issued by the Department of Immigration and Emigration
will be accepted for this purpose.
9. Applications from candidate of Government Service should be
forwarded  through the Head of Department concerned and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidates can be released, if
selected.
10. Applications.— Applications should be submitted in
applicant’s own handwriting in terms of the forms specified below
and should be forwarded to the Director, Personnel Administration,
Army Headquarters, P. O. Box. 553, Colombo 03 so  as to reach
there not later than 1200 noon on 20th November, 2006. The
envelope enclosing the application should be marked “Application
for Cadetship in the Army”. Applications received at Army
Headquarters after the closing date and time will not be entertained.
Application forms will not be issued.
11. Applications should be accompanied by copies of the
following documents.
(a) National Identity Card.
(b) Certificate of Registration of Birth.
(c) Grama Niladhari Certificate.
(d) Certificate in support of Educational Qualifications claimed.

<!-- page 5 -->

1319 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
(e) At least two recent certificates of character from
responsible persons who are personally acquainted with
the applicant, one of whom should be the Principal of the
last School attended by  applicant.
12. Preliminary selections will be made from amongst those
candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so selected
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the
Commander of the Army. The final selections will be made after an
interview of those selected candidates, by a selection board appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
13. Candidates selected for interview by the selection board will
be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
The interviews will take place in Colombo. No traveling or other
expenses will be paid by the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri
Lanka   in this respect.
14. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving him a testimonial, any form of canvassing or attempting to
influence the selection of a candidates will disqualify such a candidate.
15. Applicants who are not qualified for enlistment will not be
notified. Inquiries pertaining to such disqualification will not be
entertained.
G S C Fonseka RWP RSP rcds psc.
Lieutenant General,
Commander of the Army.
Army Headquarters,
P. O. Box. 553,
Colombo .
18th October, 2006.
Applications for Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Army
01. (a) Surname (in block letter) :———.
(b) Other Names :———.
(c) Name with Initials :———.
02. (a) Address :———.
(b) Telephone Numbers :———.
(i) Official :———.
(ii)Residence :———.
(iii)Mobile :———.
(c) Electoral District :———.
(d) Grama Niladhari Division :———.
(e) E-mail Address (if any) :———.
03. Nationality (State whether Sri Lankan by descent or
by registration, if latter, quote number and date of
certificate) :———.
04. (a) Date of Birth (To be supported by a copy of the Birth
Certificate. Baptismal Certificate or certificates issued
for the purpose of the education code will  not be
accepted) :———.
(b) Age as on 15th December, 2006 :
Years :———, Months :———, Days :———.
(c) Height :———.
05. Nearest Police Station :———.
06. Father’s name and nationality at his birth (if nationalized, give
date and number of certificate) :———.
07. Mother’s name and nationality at her birth :———.
08. Give  the following particulars of your school career :———
Name of Date of Date of Last Public
School Joining Leaving Examination
attended
09. Educational Qualifications (Examinations should be stated
separately).
Examination Year Subjects Grading
and No. Passed
10. What athletic Distinctions have you obtained in
School :———.
11. What other achievements of note do you have to your credit
in school :———.
12. Service with volunteer organizations such as the National
Cadet Corps, Boy Scout Organization, Sri Lanka Army
V olunteer Force, etc., :———.
13. Have you applied previously for any of the Armed Services
and if so, with what result :———.
14. Occupation since leaving School :———.
15. If employed in Government Department or Public
Sector Board/ Corporation (including the Central Bank,
Nationalized Banks, Commercial Banks, Universities, Joint
Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.,) reasons
for termination :———.
16. Names and Address of Persons from whom certificates of
character have been obtained :———.
.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
1320
(a) ———.
(b) ———.
17. Any other relevant facts : ———.
I declare on my honour that the answers I have given to the
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief correct. I have
read and understood the conditions of service which will apply in
respect of candidates who are selected for cadetship in the Army as
well as the pay prospects and conditions of service applicable to
officers as published in the Gazette.
———————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date .———
11-201
SRI LANKA VOLUNTEER  AIR FORCE
Airmen/Airwomen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist  in the Sri Lanka V olunteer Air  Force  for
Airmen/Airwomen in the trades given below :
1.(a) Trade and Educational Qualification :
(1) Draftsman – Successful completion of  one year full
(Mechanical)time Draughtsman Apprentice Course
conducted by a Government Technical
College or Government recognized
Institute and Five (05) years experience
in the relevant field., Experience in
Quantity Surveying and Computer Aided
Design (Auto CAD) will be an added
qualification.
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the
rank of Junior Non Commissioned
Officer or to a Higher rank depending on
their qualifications and experience.
(2) Draftsman – Successful completion of  one year full
(Civil) time Draughtsman Apprentice Course
conducted by a Government Technical
College or Government recognized
Institute and Five (05) years experience
in the relevant field. Experience in
Quantity Surveying  will be an added
qualification.
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the
rank of Junior Non Commissioned
Officer or to a Higher rank depending on
their qualifications and experience.
(b) Other Requirements.— Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka V olunteer
Air Force :
(1) Nationality.— Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2) Age.—  Not more than 35 years
as at 31st December, 2006.
(3) Height.— Male 5’4’’ and Female 5’2’’ and above.
(4) Weight : BMI = Weight (kg) <25
Height (m)2
(5) Civil Status : Married or unmarried. Unmarried Airmen/
Airwomen are not allowed to marry until the successful
completion of the Basic Ground Combat Training
Course whilst married /Airmen/Airwomen will not be
permitted to live out until the successful completion of
the Basic Ground Combat Training Course.
2. Candidates who do not posses the required educational
qualifications or fulfill the requirements of paragraph 01 (b) will be
rejected. On arrival for the interview the age, height and vision will be
measured. Candidates whose age, height and vision are below the
standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no
exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in
the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act
and other Air Force Regulations and orders with effect
from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat. They will be
required to perform combat duties and any type of duty
day and night even under very difficult conditions in any
part of Sri Lanka or Abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.—  Selected candidates will be enlisted
in the V olunteer Air Force in the rank of Junior Non Commissioned
Officer or Higher rank depending on their qualifications and experience
and shall be required to serve for a continuous period of five years.
Opportunities exists for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend for
further service on completion of five years of service.
6. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay rate. - The scale of consolidated pay applicable to
Airmen/Airwomen shall be as follows :-
Corporal - Rs. 175,200–1x1,440—13x1,800=Rs. 200,040
per annum
Sergeant - Rs. 178,440–10x1,800—2x2,520—1x3,480
 = Rs. 204,960 per annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 182,040–8x1,800—2x2,520–3x3,480
 = Rs. 211,920 per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 189,240–4x1,800—2x2,520—9x3,480
 = Rs. 232,800 per annum

<!-- page 7 -->

1321 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to Airmen/Airwomen. Increments in
promotions will be based in consideration to the service period, good
conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate
pay scale.
(b)  Other  Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances Rs. 1,375per month.
(2) Hardlying  allowance Rs. 600 per month
(3) Enhanced  Allowance Rs. 1,900 per month  for  those
serving in operational areas.
(4) Enhanced  Allowance Rs. 2,400 per month  for  those
serving in Jaffna Peninsula.
(5) Ration allowance Rs. 5649.75 per month for living out
Airmen/Airwomen and free messing for living-in
Airmen/Airwomen.
(6) Accommodation : Free for personnel living-in.
(7) Travelling :- Three sets of holiday railway warrants
per year (For Airmen/Airwomen, Wife/Husband and
Children). One set of railway warrants per month or
the reimbursement of bus fare for living-in Airmen/
Airwomen .
(8) Disturbance Allowance :- When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(9) Good Conduct Badge pay :-  Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(10) Uniform upkeep  allowances Rs. 170  per month.
(11) Medical Facilities :- Provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen/Airwomen and their families.
(12) Facilities for free travel to work in S.L.T.B. buses for
living -out Airmen/Airwomen within a radius of 30
miles (48 km) from the place of work.
(13) Following rent allowances are payable to married
Airmen/airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters (Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month).
(14) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc,.) will
be paid as detailed in the Air Force Pay Code.
7. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s  own  hand
writing in terms of the form  specified below. All cages of
the application  should be filled with many details as
possible. Applications should   be  sent by registered post
addressed to  “Chief  Recruiting  Officer, Sri Lanka Air
Force,  Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than
1200 noon  on 24th November, 2006. The envelope
enclosing  the  application should  be marked  “Application
For  Volunteer Airmen/Airwomen” on the top left corner.
Applications received at Sri Lanka Air force, Ekala,
Kotugoda after the closing date and time not  in accordance
with  the  requirements of this  notification and not in
registered post  will not be  considered.
(b) Candidates who  are in Government  Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should  forward their
applications through  their  Heads of Department /
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments & should  bear a
certificate to the  effect that the candidate will be released if
selected.
 (c) Candidates will be  required  to produce the  originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or when
called  upon  to do so :
(1) Certificate of Registration  of Birth. (Certificate issued
for the  purpose of the  Education Code  will not be
accepted)
(2) Certificate in support of the educational
qualifications required :
(3) Additional Certificates of trade /Technical Training and/
or experience (If any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character from two
responsible persons who has the know of the applicant
for more than two years  of which one should be from
the present employer if employed.
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, and  cadeting
etc;
(d) Applications of candidates who fail   to produce documents
when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or  copies  of documents should  be
attached to the application form.
(f) The  Air  Force will not  be responsible for  loss  of any
originals of certificates if  enclosed with  the application
form.
8. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required
to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force
Recruiting Board. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force
Ekala. Such Candidates will be informed individually of the date and
time.
9. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for  an interview
he is  to produce his  National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
accepted identification. However, no candidate will be enlisted with
out the National Identity Card.
10. Candidates likely to be  suitable following their interviews
will be required  to present themselves  before  an Air  Force Medical

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.10
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2006
1322
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
Board. The required number of candidates  per trade will be selected
according to merit order.
11. Any  one who  desires  to recommend a candidate should  do
so  by giving  his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence  the selection of a  candidate   will result in disqualification
of such  candidate.
12. Any statement in the  application which  is found  to be
incorrect will  render the  applicant liable to disqualification  if the
inaccuracy is   discovered before the  selection and  for dismissal  if
discovered after the  selection.
13. Candidates who  are found  unsuitable for  enlistment will  not
be  notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the  Air  Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air  Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR VOLUNTEER  AIRMEN/
AIR WOMEN IN  THE
SRI LANKA VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
01. Full Name  (According to Birth Certificate) :__________.
02. National Identity Card Number :__________.
03. Trade Applied :__________.
04. Postal Address :__________.
05. Permanent Address :__________.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :_________.
07. District :__________.
08. Electorate :__________.
09. GS Division :__________.
10. Telephone  Number :__________.
11. Date of Birth :__________.
Age as  at 31st December 2006 :
Years :________, Months :________, Days :________.
12. Civil Status :__________.
13. Sex :__________.
14. Height : Feet:——. Inches:——.
15. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16 .G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
17. (a) Any special qualifications for the post :———.
(Eg. Technical, training  and experience etc.,)
(b) Trade Expereince :————.
Experiences Period Head of Department and Address
18. Details of special Achievements in sports :————.
19. Other Achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :————.
20. If  previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give
details :————.
21. Have  you  being   convicted or bound over by a Civil   or
Military Court if so,  give  details :–––––––.
22. Particulars of Testimonials :————.
Name Description Permanent Address
23. Declaration to be signed by the  Applicant:
I declare on  my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which  will be adopted and
the rules which will apply  in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airmen/airwomen in the Sri Lanka V olunteer Air  Force
published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lnaka.
–––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
11-233