

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1730
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 1730
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"077 – 2018 cqks ui 22 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'06'22
No. 2,077  –  FRIDAY ,  JUNE 22, 2018
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th July, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th June, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1727-B 81423- 5,403 (06/2018)
N. B.–   Parts II and IV (A) of the Gazette No. 2,076 of 14.06.2018 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1728
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1729
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1730
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
REVISION 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment of 
Graduates (Appointed under Programme to 
Employ Graduates) to Grade 3-1(a) of  Sri Lanka 
Teachers' Service for Vacancies in Sinhala and 
Tamil Medium Teaching existing in National 
Schools of the Island - 2018
THE closing date of calling applications mentioned in the 
notiﬁ cation No. 05-681/1 of the Gazette bearing No. 2073 
published on 25.05.2018 is extended up to 16.07.2018.
 S UNIL HETTIARACHCHI, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education.
Isurupaya, Pelawatte, 
Battaramulla, 
On the 19th day of June, 2018.
06–1149/2
–––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR 
OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF PUBLIC 
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' 
SERVICE - 2012(II) 2018
IT is hereby notiﬁ ed that, an Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination for 
ofﬁ cers in Class III of the Public Management Assistants' 
Service will be held by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations, as per the relevant provisions of the approved 
Service Minutes, in the month of September 2018.
02. Information on the eligibility of the candidates are 
furnished in provisions of Para 8, 15 interim provisions 
and Annex 04 of the approved service minute of Public 
Management Assistants' Service published in the 
Government Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 
11.12.2013.
03. Ofﬁ cers who have not completed the ef ﬁ ciency bar 
prescribed for of ﬁ cers in Grade III in the service minute 
implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but 
either passed or been exempted from one or several subjects 
of the examination i. e. (1) Of ﬁ ce Systems (2) Accounting 
Systems and (3) Comupter Test shall be exempted from 
the subjects of the Efﬁ ciency Bar Examination on the basis 
of subject by subject prescribed by this service minute for 
the of ﬁ cers in Grade III. Should pass the Ef ﬁ ciency bar 
examination relevant to Grade III within three years from 
the date of appointment. 
04. This examination for of ﬁ cers in Class III of Public 
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, 
Posts – Vacant
REVISION 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Recruitment of Graduates Appointed under Programme to Employ Graduates to Grade 2-II of              
Sri Lanka Teachers' Service for Vacancies in Sinhala and Tamil Medium Teaching existing in National 
Schools of the Island - 2018
THE closing date of calling applications mentioned in the noti ﬁ cation No. 05-681/2 of the Gazette bearing No. 2073 
published on 25.05.2018 is extended up to 16.07.2018.
 SUNIL HETTIARACHCHI, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education.
Isurupaya, Pelawatte, 
Battaramulla, 
On the 19th day of June, 2018.
06–1149/1

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1731
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The relevant towns 
and town numbers are given below. It will not be allowed to 
change the town applied for subsequently. 
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
A centre without sufﬁ cient number of candidates will be 
cancelled and the relevant candidates will be directed to the 
next nearest centre available. 
05.  (i)  This examination will be conducted by the 
Commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him. 
 (ii)  The rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation. Candidates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations. 
06. The application for this examination should be in the 
form of specimen appended to this noti ﬁ cation. Applicants 
should prepare the applications themselves according to the 
specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the 
registered post through the respective Heads of Departments 
to reach the 
Commissioner-General of Examinations, 
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, 
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo. 
On or before 23rd July 2018. The name of the 
examination should be indicated in the top left hand 
corner of the envelope of the application. Applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected. 
The post and service station of the candidate, at 
the time he/she applies for the examination will be 
applicable for all matters relating to examination and 
any changes which occur in the past and service station 
after sending the application will not be considered. 
Note.– Provisions for Provincial Management 
Assistants' Service shall be issued by the 
relevant Provincial Public Service Commissions 
and provisions shall be issued by the relevant 
institutions for other institutions concurrently to 
this Gazette Notiﬁ cation. 
 In order to identify the applications of the 
ofﬁ cers in each provincial public service and 
other institutions, conveniently code number 
should be used. Accordingly, for the of ﬁ cers in 
Combined Service Code Number is 10 . This 
number should be entered in the upper right side 
of the application where you have to mention the 
service you belong to. 
7.0 Identity of the Candidates .– Candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For 
this purpose, one of the following identity cards should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the 
above mentioned identity cards may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
8.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in 
a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 
3.0 appears on the ﬁ rst page and the other paragraphs on 
the other pages. The application could be typewritten but 
should be ﬁ lled in correctly and legibly by candidate's own 
handwriting. Application should strictly conform to the 
specimen appended and candidates are advised as not to 
send more than one application or photocopies. Applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and that have not 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1732
been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. 
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on 
the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala 
and Tamil Application forms. It is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/her self complies with the specimen given in 
the examination notice and the application is perfected 
accurately including all the particulars and the prescribed 
examination fee has been paid and the relevant particulars 
are included in the application and the receipt in afﬁ xed and 
further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the  
completed application form.
(ii) Penalty for furnishing false information.–  Application 
should be perfected very carefully with correct information. 
If a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
(iii) The Candidates appearing for the examination for 
the 1st time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500 for the whole examination 
or for more than one subject and Rs. 250 for only one 
subject should be paid at any post - of ﬁ ce /sub post of ﬁ ce 
island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of 
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt 
obtained thus should be af ﬁ xed to the relevant cage of the 
applications form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the candidate. It is kindly informed that no fee 
shall be charged in addition to the examination fee. Under no 
circumstances the examination fee shall be refunded. It will 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination 
in favour of another. Further, stamps or money orders are 
not accepted for examination fees.
9.0 The Commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to the 
ofﬁ cers who have sent the applications on or before the 
closing date, which are perfected accurately along with 
the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee on the 
supposition that only those who possess the quali ﬁ cations 
indicated in the Gazette noti ﬁ cation have applied. A 
notiﬁ cation will be published in newspapers as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the 
Department of Examinations. If the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the Organizations and Foreign 
Examinations Branch of Department of Examinations in 
the manner speciﬁ ed in the avertisement. When informing, 
the name of the examination applied for, full name, address 
and the NIC number of the candidate shall be indicated. 
It would be advisable for candidates outside Colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidate to the department of Examinations through the 
fax number mentioning  the noti ﬁ cation for sending a copy 
of the admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information requested by the 
Department of Examinations.
10.0 Issuance of an admission card to a applicants does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has ful ﬁ lled the 
qualiﬁ cations to sit for the examination or for a post. The 
admission card in which the signature have been attested 
should be produced to the supervisor of the examination 
center on the ﬁ rst day of the examination. Candidates 
without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the 
examination. The Heads of Departments should approve 
duty leave for ofﬁ cers to whom admission cards have been 
issued by the Commissioner-General of Examinations to 
enable them to appear for the examination. No travelling 
expenses will be paid.
10.1 The signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an ofﬁ cer authorized by him.
11.0 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English media. The ofﬁ cers may sit for this examination 
either in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the service or in one of the of ﬁ cial 
languages. Candidates who entered the service without a 
competitive examination may sit for the examination in their 
medium of education or in one of the ofﬁ cial languages. The 
language medium of examination, mentioned originally in 
the application, cannot be changed subsequently.
12.0 Ofﬁ cers may appear separately for each  subject at 
different  occasions at their discretion. However they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks for each subject, for a 
pass.
13.0 Commissioner General of Examinations will 
release the results of the examination to the Director General 
of Combined Services and the results will be published in the 
website of Ministry of Public Administration, Management 
and Law and Order.
14.0 Examination Procedure.–  Candidates should sit 
for a written examination that will consist of the following 
subjects.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1733
 Subject Subject Marks Duration
  No.
 (i) Of ﬁ ce Systems 01 100 02 hrs
 (ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 02 hrs
 (iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2hrs
 14.1 Ofﬁ ce Systems (Subject No. 01)
  This paper shall be designed to test the candidate's 
basic knowledge on of ﬁ ce systems adopted in 
government of ﬁ ces and practical use of that 
knowledge, proper understanding of of ﬁ cial 
documents and the ability of presenting the ideas/
observations in clear and brief minutes and the 
ability of drafting a letter according to an order 
given to the ofﬁ cer. This paper will consist of two 
parts.
Part I- Consists of questions that require short 
answers. Answers should be provided 
on the paper itself. Should answer all the 
questions. (25 marks)
Part II - A question paper of structured essay 
type. Should answer 03 out of 04 
questions. (75 marks)
 14.2  Accounting Systems (Subject No. 02)
  It is expected to test candidate's knowledge in 
Accounting Systems adopted in government 
ofﬁ ces, functions of books and records of 
controlling Accounts. Paper will consist of two 
parts.
Part I - Consists of questions that require short 
answers. Should provide answers on 
the paper itself. Should answer all the 
questions. (25 marks)
Part II - A question paper of structured essay 
type. Should answer 03 out of 04 
questions (75 marks)
 14.3  Test on Computer Skills ( Subject No. 03)
  Objective of this test is to verify the candidate's 
skills on the following.
 (i) Basic concepts of information Technology
 (ii) Windows Operating System
 (iii) Folder Management
 (iv) Word Processing 
  Basic Skills, Screen Familiarization, Editing text 
Aligning Text, Fonts and Attributes, Indenting 
Paragraphs, sub paragraphs, change of Line 
Spacing, Tab settings, Finding and replacing 
text, Spelling and Grammar, Thesaurus, Working 
with columns, Page Setup, Printing documents, 
Creating Tables, Sorting text, Folder Management, 
Mail Merging, Working with macros.
 (v) Spreadsheets 
  Basic Skills
  Formatting
  Editing Columns and ranges, insertion and  
Deletion 
  Sorting data
  Creating Charts
  Printing
  @ Function
  Working with Macros, Folder Management
 (vi) Internet and E-mail
  Introduction to internet, Basic Skills receiving mail 
sending mail, responding to mails
  Working with attachments creating and using 
nicknames composing messages
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I - Consist of 40 questions of MCQ type that 
require short answers, Duration 45 minutes 
(40 marks)
Part II - 05 semi structured questions. Duration 45 
minutes (60 marks.)
15.0 All applicants are bound to comply with the rules 
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examination with regard to the conducting of this 
examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to the 
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of those rules and regulations.
16.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined 
Services will be ﬁ nal in any matter not provided for in this 
notiﬁ cation.
17.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination 
Notiﬁ cation, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.
 K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
 Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration and 
 Management and Law & Order,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
07th of June 2018.
          

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1734
  (For ofﬁ ce use only) 
Specimen Application Form 
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' 
SERVICE - 2012(II)2018
  Town Town No.  The service to which you belong 
 1.   (Please refer the note of para 6.0 of the Gazette
 2.   Noti ﬁ cation carefully before ﬁ lling this section)
 (Indicate the town in which you intend to sit the  Language medium of examination 
 examination according to your preference as per  
 Section 4.0 of the Gazette notiﬁ cation) (This  Sinhala - 2
 cannot be altered subsequently)  Tamil - 3
    English - 4
    (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
    (This cannot be changed subsequently)
    
1.0. 1.1 Name in full (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  ( E. g. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  ( E.g. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (In sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and Address of the Of ﬁ ce/Department/Institution (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Of ﬁ ce/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Gender : 
  Female - 1
   Male - 0  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 Date of Birth : Year   Month     Date
 3.3 N. I. C. No. : 
4.0  Subject/s you are offering now : (Refer Para No. 14.0 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation) :
 
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
01
02
03
5.0 Present Post :
 5.1 Post  :––––––––––––.
 5.2 Appointment letter Number  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1735
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the ﬁ rst time ?  :––––––––––––.
 6.2 If not, examination fees paid :––––––––––––.
 6.3 Post Of ﬁ ce/Sub Post Ofﬁ ce :––––––––––––.
 6.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
 6.5 Date :––––––––––––.
Please afﬁ x the receipt of examination fees paid of Rs. 500 for whole Examination and 
Rs. 250 for only one subject. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
7.0 Certi ﬁ cate of the Candidate :
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and I am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. The receipt af ﬁ xed is to the value of Rs. .............................. I agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations of this examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of his/her respective Head of Department or an of ﬁ cer 
assigned to sign on behalf of him. 
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................................... who is an employee of my work station and who is 
personally known to me placed his/her signature in my presence on ................................... and further stamps to the  value 
of examination fee have been afﬁ xed. 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and of ﬁ cial stamp of the person attesting. 
Name  :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Certiﬁ cate of the Head of the Department : 
I, certify that, 
 (i) The information furnished above were veri ﬁ ed and ; 
 (ii) The of ﬁ cer *has/has not appeared for the examination previously;
 (iii) The of ﬁ cer has appeared for the examination previously and *he/she has af ﬁ xed the receipt of the fees for 
the relevant examination. 
 (iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination. 
*(Delete inapplicable words)
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and of ﬁ cial stamp of the Head of the Department.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––.
06 -882

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2018
1736
AMENDMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF AUDIT EXAMINERS TO 
GRADE II OF THE AUDIT EXAMINERS' SERVICE - 2018
THE closing date for applications for the Competitive Examination published in Gazette Notiﬁ cation No. 2071 dated 11th 
May 2018, is extended up to 29th June, 2018.
 H. M. GAMINI WIJESINGHE, 
 Auditor General. 
Auditor General's Department, 
No. 306/72, Polduwa Road, 
Battaramulla, 
20th June, 2018.
06–1150
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.