

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
569
569
wxl 1"701 - 2011 wfm%a,a ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'04'08
No. 1,701 – FRIDAY , APRIL 08, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th April, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st  April,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 570
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—  Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.
Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,700 of 01.04.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
570
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR THE  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  REVENUE  INSPECTOR  GRADE  II
OF  LOCAL  GOVERNMENT  INSTITUTIONS  OF  THE WESTERN  PROVINCE  PUBLIC  SERVICE – 2011
APPLICATIONS are called in from both males and females with following qualifications for the vacancies existing in the Grade II Revenue
Inspector positions of the Local Government Institutions of the Western Province Public Service.
02. 2.1 According to the Public Administration Circular 06/2006(IV), monthly remuneration relevant to this post is Rs. 13,120
- 145 x 10 - 170 x 11 - 240 x 10 - 320 x 10 - Rs. 22,040. (Twelfth step of MN-1-2006A would be the commencing step
of the salary according to the P. A. Circular 06/2006(IV)).
2.2 Age Limit.– Should be not less than 23 years of age and not over 45 years of age as at the closing date for applications. The
maximum age limit should not have exceeded at the time of recruitment. Applicants who are already employed in the
Public/Provincial Public Permanent Service are exempted from the maximum age limit mentioned above. They should
forward their applications through the Heads of their Department.
2.3 Service Conditions.– Service conditions depend on the approved Service Minute. This is a permanent position with
eligibility for a pension.
03. The closing date for the applications is 28.04.2011.
04. Educational and other qualifications. – A degree obtained from a recognized university and a credit pass obtained at the G . C.
E. (O/L) examination for English Language.
05. Candidates :
5.1 Should be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
5.2 Should be of sound character ;
5.3 Should be both physically and mentally fit to accomplish the duties of this position ;
5.4 Applicants should prove the permanent residency within the Western Province and should have at least 03 years of
permanent residence within the Province as at the closing date of the application which is 28.04.2011. To prove this, a
certificate issued by the Divisional Secretary confirming permanent residence should be forwarded at the interview.
06. Procedure of Recruitment.– Recruitments for the Revenue Inspector Grade II will be made subsequent to calling for applications
and holding a written examination for the applicants holding basic qualifications and according to the number of vacancies existing for the
post. In an instance where two or more candidates have received equal marks, the final decision regarding the selection of a suitable candidate
vests with the Provincial Public Service Commission of the Western Province.
07. The Syllabus for the Written Examination.– This examination consists of 02 papers :
1. General Knowledge  - Time 01 hour, marks 100
2. IQ Test - Time 01 hour, marks 100
1. General Knowledge.– The General Knowledge part would consist of a Multiple Choice Question paper with questions
pertaining to economic, social, scientific, cultural, political and technical and the field of sports of the current world as well
as questions that pay special attention to Sri Lanka.
2. IQ Test.– The IQ Test would consist of Multiple Choice Questions to test the applicants human abilities of logical
capability, ability to take decisions and make judgments, mathematical, linguistic and conceptual capabilities that pertain
to the measurement of the applicant’s intelligence.
In order to get qualified, at least 40% marks should be obtained for each paper and according to the approved number of
vacancies ; applicants who obtain higher marks for both papers will be recruited on the order of merit and subsequent to
examining their qualifications.
Examination for the recruitment will be held in the three language mediums of Sinhala, Tamil and English, however, the medium
applied for in the application would not be changed later.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
571
08. The final decision regarding the filling of vacancies that have been reported currently and the vacancies that get created in
future, with candidates who pass from the above mentioned examination, will be vested with the Western Province Public Service Commission.
09. Rs. 350 should be paid as the examination fee to the nearest Divisional Secretariat crediting to the Provincial Council Revenue
Head 20-03-90-01 and the receipt, W. P . 1. which is obtained thus should be attached to the application form. Securing a photocopy of the
receipt would be useful. Except the receipts obtained in the above manner, Receipts or Money Orders received from other institutions will
not be accepted and due to whatever reason the examination fees will not be refunded.
10. Procedure for applying.– Applications should be prepared in both sides of A4 size papers (21 x 29cm) according to the
specimen application contained in this announcement. When preparing the application, No. 01 to 06 should be included into the first page,
No. 07 to 09 should be contained in the second page whereas the rest should be included in the third page as it appears in the specimen
application. Further, when the application is prepared, the name of the examination stated in the heading should also be stated in English in
Sinhala or Tamil medium applications in addition to heading stated in Sinhala or Tamil. Duly completed applications should be sent to the
Secretary, Provincial Public Service Commission (W. P.). Independence Square, Colombo 07, by registered post before 28.04.2011. On the
top left corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed, “Recruitment to the Post of Revenue Inspector Grade II of the Local
Government Institutions of the Western Province Public Service - 2011” should be stated. (Officers who are already in the perma nent
positions of the Public Service/Provincial Public Service shall forward their applications through the Head of the Department). Applications
received late or not conforming to the specimen application or with incomplete details will be rejected without any prior notice. Whether
application is received or not will not be informed.
11. Applications which do not satisfy the requirements stated in the announcement will be rejected. Issuance of an admission
paper to sit for the examination is not a valid reason to believe that the applicant has accomplished all the qualifications to be eligible for this
post.
12. At the time of the interview conducted to check the qualifications of the applicants as required by the announcement, if it is
revealed that the applicant does not possess qualifications as mentioned in the announcement, his/her right to obtain the appointment will
be annulled. It is compulsory that every applicant should acquire all the qualifications relevant to this post by 28.04.2011 or on a date prior
to that date.
13. The recruitment examination, if it will be held by the Department of Examinations, as soon as the admissions are issued, a news
paper advertisement stating that will be issued by the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations. Subsequent to the publication of t he
announcement if the admissions did not reach you within 2 to 3 days, it shall be informed either to the Secretary, Provincial Public Service
Commission (Western Province), Independence Square, Colombo 07 as stated in the notice or to the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
It is more apt to inform the Provincial Public Service Commission (Western Province), Independence Square, Colombo 07 with certified
photocopies of the application and receipt obtained for the payment of money secured with you and a photocopy of the receipt ob tained
for registered post along with your request letter containing a fax number for the admission to be faxed if you reside outside Colombo.
14. Identity of the Candidates.– The applicant should prove his/her identity to the officer who is in charge of the examination hall
for the subject he/she is sitting for. For this, one of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) Valid Passport.
Note.– If in any case, if the applicant is unable to prove his/her identity as stated above, he/she is considered as non-eligible to
sit for the examination.
15. Issuance of an admission to an applicant shall not be considered as recognition that he/she has accomplised eligibility to sit for
the examination.
16. Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations/Provincial Public
Service Commission regarding the conduct of examinations. If those rules and regulations are violated, he/she shall have to sub ject to a
punishment levied by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
17. If at any instance it is proved that the applicant does not possess the qualifications required before he/she receives the
appointment, the candidateship will be canceled. Subsequent to the appointment, if it was revealed that the applicant has consc iously
forwarded false details or has concealed the true information, he/she would be expelled from the service.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
572
18. The decision of the Provincial Public Service Commission of the Western Province will be the final decision in relation to the
facts related to the announcement for the calling up of applications, or regarding other facts not revealed by that announcement.
V.  RAJAPAKSHA,
Secretary,
Provincial Public Service Commission.
Western Province,
29th March, 2011.
Specimen Application Form
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF REVENUE INSPECTOR GRADE II OF
LOCAL GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS OF THE WESTERN PROVINCE PUBLIC SERVICE – 2011
Index Number
(For office use)
District of permanent residence - (Put the number in the box)
Colombo – 1
Gampaha – 2
Kalutara – 3
Medium in which you intend to sit for the examination – (Put the relevant number in the box)
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
01. ( a) Name with initials (Initials should follow the name) (In English capitals) :–––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (In English capitals) :–––––––––––.
(c) National Identity Card No. :
02. Address to which the admission should be sent (In English capitals) :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
04. Gender (Write the relevant number in the cage) :
Female – 0
Male – 1
05. (i) Permanent residence within the relevant district as at the closing date for the applications. i. e., 28.04.2011 :
Years : Months : Days :
(ii) Telephone No. : Personal :–––––––––––.           Official :–––––––––––.
06. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––.
(i) Age as at closng date for the applications, i. e. :–––––––––––.
Years : Months : Days :
(ii) Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka by birth/registration ? :–––––––––––.
07. Educational and other qualifications :–––––––––––.
Under No. 04 in the announcement for calling for applications :–––––––––––.
(a) (i) Year for the sitting of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination and whether under the old syllabus or new syllabus :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Pass obtained for the English subject :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
573
(b) (i) Degree obtained :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the University from which the degree was obtained :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of validity of the Degree :–––––––––––.
(If these details are not stated clearly and accurately, the applications will be rejected)
08. Receipt number by which the examination fees was paid :
Date :–––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat by which the receipt was obtained :–––––––––––.
Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt within the box well
(Secure a photocopy of this receipt)
09. I ......................, hereby state that the information contained herein are true and correct according to the best of my knowledge and belief.
If I happened to be found of providing false information, I inform that I am well aware that my eligibility for the Post of Rev enue
Inspector Grade II of Local Government Institutions of the Western Province Public Service will be rejected and disciplinary action can
be taken against me. I further state that I am willing to subject myself to the rules and regulations enacted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations regarding the conduct of the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATION OF THE SIGNATURE OF THE APPLICANT
(Please cut off unnecessary words)
I certify that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ is known to me perosnally and he/she placed his/her signature bef ore me
on .............
Name of the person attesting :–––––––––––.
Signature :–––––––––––.
Designation and the Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
(This attestation should be signed by a Principal of a Government school/Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-
Law/Commissioned officer of the Army or Air Force or an officer of the Public/Provincial Public Service holding a permanent pos ition,
drawing an annual combined salary not less than Rs. 237,060)
R
ECOMMENDATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT FOR THE APPLICANTS CURRENTLY EMPLOYED IN PUBLIC/PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE
(Please cut off unnecessary words)
I certify that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is currently employed at Ministry/Department/Instituti on of
................. as a ...................... in a permanent position and her/his service is satisfactory, she/he has not been expelled or has been/not been
sent to retirement on sympathy basis due to inefficiency, nor has been/not been considered as one vacated her/his post and I certify that the
information stated above are accurate whereas as per the results of the examination, if she/he is selected for this post she/he can be/cannot
be released from the current position that she/he holds.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(place official stamp)
Date :–––––––––––.
04–446
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.