

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
673
wxl 1"927 - 2015 wf.daia;= ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'08'07
No. 1,927 – FRIDAY ,  AUGUST 07,  2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th August, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th August, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W.  A.  A.  G.  FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 674
By-Laws ... ––
Posts - V acant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
673
N. B. –  The List of Jurors in Kurunegala and Kuliyapitiya Jurisdiction area in year 2015 have been published in Part VI of this Gazette
in Sinhala Language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
674
Provincial Councils Notifications
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE
Road Statue No. ….. of 2015 of the Provincial Council of the
North Western Province
IT is hereby notified that the following Road Statute No. ….. of 2015 of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province w ill be
presented in the Provincial Council of the North Western Province after a lapse of 30 days from this date. Any person who is desirous to
make any representation regarding any provision of this Statue shall make such representations before the said date.
R. P . D. GUNADASA DEHIGAMA,
North Western Provincial Minister of
Road Development, Transport, Power, Housing and Construction.
North Western Provincial Ministry of
Road Development, Transport, Power,
Housing and Construction
Ground Floor
(North Western) Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala,
on 21.07.2015.
ROAD STATUTE NO. ….. OF 2015 OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE
A STATUTE TO PROVIDE FOR THE PLANNING , DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT,
REHABILITATION, MAINTENANCE AND DEMARCATION OF THE ROADS ASSIGNED TO THE
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL IN TERMS OF SECTION 6 OF THE 9
TH SCHEDULE OF THE 13 TH AMENDMENT
TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  AND THE ROADS
WITHIN THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE MOREFULLY DESCRIBED AS PROVINCIAL ROADS IN
SECTION III OF THIS STATUTE AND BELONG TO CLASS “C” AND “D” AND THE BRIDGES, FERRIES
AND DESIGNS THEREON; TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO; AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OF THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
ROAD DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY STATUTE NO. 01 OF 2000.
WHEREAS, the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka has authorized the Provincial Councils
to make Statutes on any subject listed in the List I (provincial Councils) in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution;
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the North Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows to be inconsistent with the National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2000:-
1.  This Statute may be cited as the North Western Province Provincial Council Road Development Statute No. ….. of
20…
2.  This Statute shall come into operation on such date as the Governor may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.
3.   the objects of this Statute are as follows:
(a) to provide a modernized road network to the people in the North Western Province which connects with
the Integrated Road Network of Sri Lanka and the roads belonging to the Local Government Institutions
within the Province and other rural roads through planning, construction and development of roads belonging
to the Provincial Council and classified as class “c” and “d” and the bridges, ferries and designs thereon,
supervision of such planning and development, provision of consultative services thereon, maintenance and
provision of consultative services on such maintenance and providing for the demarcation of road limits;
Preamble.
Short Title
Date of
Operation
design

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
675
(b) to provide necessary consultation services on development and maintenance of roads to local government
institutions and other institutions within the Province on payment of consultative fees;
(c) to establish North Western Provincial Road Advisory Committee;
(d) to establish North Western Provincial Road Compensation Committee.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT, CONSTITUTION, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE NORTH WESTERN
PROVINCE PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF ROAD DEVELOPMENT
4. The Department shall by its name be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal
and may sue and be sued in that name and shall have the power to execute all matters pertaining to North
Western Provincial Council roads.
5. The Department shall consist of a Provincial Director, two Deputy Directors, Executive Engineers, Head
Quarters Engineers and other officials and employees.
 6. The Governor of the North Western Province shall on the recommendation of the Chief Secretary of the
Province appoint a Class one Officer of the Sri Lanka Engineers’ Service as the “North Western Provincial
Director of Road Development” to exercise of the powers vested in the North Western Provincial Department
of Road Development.
7. The Deputy Directors and all Engineers referred to in Section 5 above shall be officers of the Sri Lanka
Engineers’ Service and shall be appointed by the Governor of the North Western Province on the recommendation
of the Provincial Director of Roads and the Chief Secretary of the North Western Provincial Council.
8. All officers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed to be public servants. No action or
prosecution shall be instituted or maintained against any officer who is acting on the direction of the Provincial
Director for any act or omission which is done in his/her official capacity in this connection.
9. The functions of the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development are as follows:
1. to design and maintain updated the road network of the North Western Province for the efficient
transport operations through effective management of limited resources, advanced technology and
technical skills;
2. to formulate and implement plans for the rehabilitation, improvement, renovation and maintenance of
provincial roads as the case may be;
3. to demarcate and secure the boundaries of the road reservations of the provincial road network;
4. to institute legal actions against those who damage the provincial road network or the road reservations;
5. to represent the Department at meetings of the Regional Coordinating Committee; District Coordinating
Committee; District and Provincial Road Safety Committee; and District Disaster Management
Committee;
6. to design and implement plans within the provisions made available by either the Provincial Council or
any other institution for the renovation of damages caused to the provincial road network due to natural
disasters such as floods or for any construction or development activity;
7.  to develop on annual basis and maintain updated the data base of the scope of the Department;
8. to grant permission subject to conditions on the approval of the Advisory Council to any institution or
organization which intends to rehabilitate, improve and thereafter maintain any provincial council road
or roads through provisions outside the provincial council or under any other special project to do so.
Department to
be a legal entity
 Constitution of
the Department
Appointment of
the Director
Appointment of
the other
engineers  .
Officers deemed to
be public servants
and provisions
relating to
execution of
service.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
676
10. Subject to the provisions hereinafter provided, this Statue shall apply to all roads of Class “C” and “D”
belonging to the North Western Province and to all bridges, ferries, designs and road reservations thereon.
11. (1) The Provincial Department of Road Development established in the Provincial Council of the North
Western Province, (hereinafter referred to as the “Department”) shall subject to the general directions
and policy guidelines of the Minister and or Chief Secretary, have the exclusive power of implementation
and administration of the provisions of this Statue in consultation with such other government departments
or institutions as may be referred to in this Statue.
(2) The Department may exercise all or any of the powers conferred upon the Department under this
Statue.
12. (1) Subject to the provisions of Section 11 (2) above, the Minister may in consultation with the Advisory
Board established under Section 15(1), by Order published in Section IV of the Gazette declare a road
within the province to be a road coming under the purview of this Statute.
Provided that, any road specified in the Schedule 1 which prior to the coming into operation of this
Statute has been declared to be a provincial road, shall from and after the date of coming into operation
of this Statue, be deemed to be a provincial road, within the meaning of this Section.
(2)  Every provincial road declared under subsection (1) shall vest in the Provincial Department of Road
Development and accordingly the department shall maintain said roads at the highest possible standard
within the annual financial allocations.
(3)  For the purposes of this Statue a provincial road includes a canal or river.
13. (1)  Subject to the general administration of the Secretary, the Provincial Director shall have the power to
carry out the orders and directions made in relation to matters pertaining to or incidental to this Statute.
(2)  Subject to the general direction and control of the Provincial Department of Road Development, the
Provincial Director, Deputy Director, Head Quarters Engineer and Executive Engineer of the Department
shall be responsible for the implementation and administration of the provisions of the Statue. The
powers of the Executive Engineer shall be limited to the relevant Executive Engineering Division and
the boundaries of authority of the Executive Engineering Division shall be declared from time to time by
the Provincial Director.
(3)   It shall be lawful for the Provincial Director to delegate any functions assigned to him by this Statue to
the Deputy Director, Head Quarters Engineer and Executive Engineer or any other officer of the
Department or any organization or a person as the case may be.
14. The Advisory Board referred to in Part II of this Statute may take over any road or roads of which the
minimum width of the surface is 3.7 meters and the space available  on either side of the road for drains and
shoulder iss 1.5 meters and the total width of the road is not less than 6.7 meters and the bridges drains and
other design are of good condition, to the Provincial Council with the concurrence of the Institution to  which
such road /roads belong, if it is satisfied that -
(a) the road passes through at lease two Divisional Secretary’s Divisions and connects two or more main
provincial centres and connects to a  national highway;
(b) the road connects two Provincial roads on which the volume of vehicular  traffic is between hundred to
two hundred and fifty vehicles per day;
(c) the road has strategic bridge crossing points across major rivers providing connection to other national
or provincial highways;
(d) the road provides access to a place of provincial importance  or to a special scheme of the province;
Application of
the Statue
Administration of
the Statue
Declaration of
provincial road/s.
Powers of Officers
and Employees
Taking over of
roads to the
Provincial
Council

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
677
PART II
ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF ADVISORY BOARD
15. (1) There shall be established a Provincial Road Network Development Advisory Board (hereinafter referred to
a the “Advisory Board”) consisting of the following members or their reprentagives they duly authorize;
(a) North Western Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject of Roads shall be the Chairman of the
and Three Members of the Consultative Committee for the North Western Provincial Ministry
in-charge of the subject of Roads nominated by the said Consultative Committee which is appointed
by the Chairman of the Provincial;
(b) Chief Secretary of the North Western Province or his representative nominated by him;
(c) District Secretaries of the districts of Kurunegala and Puttlam their representative nominated by
them;
(d) Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject of Roads;
(e) Deputy Chief Secretary of the North Western Province who is assigned with the financial affairs or
his represntative nominated by him;
(f) Deputy Chief Secretary of the North Western Province who is assigned with the engineering affairs
or his represntative nominated by him;
(g) Deputy Chief Secretary of the North Western Province who is assigned with the planning affairs or
his represntative nominated by him;
(h) Director in-charge of the North Western Province of the Road Development Authority or his
representative nominated by him;
(i) Commissioner of Local Governments of the North Western Province or his representative nominated
by him;
(j) Deputy Inspector General of Police of the districts of Kurunegala and Puttlam or their reprentative
nominated by them;
(k) Provincial Director of the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development who shall
function as the Secretary to the Advisory Board;
(l) any other official or person recommended as necessary for the deliberations of the Board by the
Provincial Director to the Chairman.
(2) The Chairman of the Advisory Board shall preside at every meeting of the Board at which he is present. In
the absence of the Chairman at any meeting of the Board, any member nominated by the Chairman shall
preside at such meeting.
(3) The Members and the Secretary of the Board may be paid such remuneration as approved by the Governor
on the recommendation of the Chief Secretary.
(4) Functions of the Advisory Board shall be as follows -
(a) to take action on development and renovation of roads within the North Western Province referred
to the Board and on issues which arise periodically;
(b) to develop criteria which are suitable to the province for special projects implemented with a view to
facilitating road users;
Establishment
and Functions of
the Advisory
Board.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
678
(c) To determine and take action pertaining to road development strategies, researches on roads and
measures to promote road development technology;
(d) To determine the assignment of roads belonging to the road network within the province in the State
or in the Road Development Authority in the implementation of the National Policy on the integrated
Highway Network in Sri Lanka;
(e) to determine  the acquisition by the Provincial Department of any road within the Province maintained
by a Local Authority under the provisions of the Statute for maintenance and development;
16. The members referred to under (a) to (k) in 15 (1) of this Statute shall be ex-officio members and the members
referred to under (1) may be appointed by the Minister in-charge of the subject in terms of Section 15(1) (1).
17. The terms of office of the members appointed by the Minister shall be two (02) years.
18. Every member appointed by the Minister shall on the expiry of the term of office, resignation, removal by the
Minister at his discretion, absence from two (02) consecutive meetings of the Board or the death or insanity of the
member, cease to be a member and the Minister shall fill the vacancy so created.
19. The Advisory Board shall convene at least once every year and the Secretary may convene any additional
meetings if found necessary, on the advice of the Chairman.
20. The quorum of any meeting of the Advisory Board shall be 1/3 of the membership. Existence of vacancies in the
membership shall not in any way impede the conduct of meetings of the Board or the making of decisions at such
meetings.
PART III
PROVINCIAL ROADS
21. (1) The North Western Provincial Department of Road Development shall be vested with the roads declared by
the Minister under Section 12 of this Statute and the roads within the North Western Province depicted as ‘C’,
‘D’ and ‘E’ in the Schedule I which were deemed as provincial roads even prior to the date on which this
Statute comes into effect.
(2) Roads specifically categorized as;-
(a) Grade ‘C’ include all roads which start from a national highway; and end on a national highway or a
Provincial council road; and
(b) Grade ‘D’ includes all roads which start from a national highway and  end on a road which is not a
national highway or a provincial council road and all roads which start from a provincial council road
but does not end on a national highway.
(3) The roads indicated in the Schedule I referred to above are presently considered as Northwestern Provincial
roads and the Minister may acquire a new road to the Provincial Council or assign any road to other institution
by a Notification published in Section IV of the Government  Gazette with the approval of the Provincial
Council.
22. (1) The Minister may specify building limits along a Provincial Road or any part thereon by way of a regulation
publish in Section IV of the Government Gazette or as a matter in the Notification under Section 7 (3) above.
(2) In the event no building limits are specified under Section (1) above the building limits should include -
(a) ten meters from the centre of the section where vehicles move of Grade C road and five meter
reservation;
Provincial
Council Roads
Building limits
Appointment  of
members of the
Board
Term of Office of
members
Cessation of
membership
Meetings of the
Board
The Quorum

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
679
(b) seven and half meters from the centre of the section where vehicles move of Grade D road and four
meter reservation;
(c) the reservations already belonging to the Department of Road Development.
(3) The said building limits at places such as town centres and junctions within the road reservation may be revised
as found necessary in consultations with the Local Authority and the Minister shall publish such limits in the
Government Gazette from time to time.
PART IV
ACQUISITION OF LANDS AND CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS
23. (1)  The Minister may on the recommendation of the Provincial Director on requests received from various parties,
authorize -
(a) the construction of a new Provincial Road; or
 (b) the widening or improving of an existing road involving land acquisition; or
(c) the deviation to any road.
(2) The Minister shall where he authorizes the construction or widening or improving or deviation of a road, direct
the Department to prepare a survey plan depicting the land area required for the construction of such roads
specifying the length and breathe of such roads including its reservations and its building limits.
(3) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazette, declare the land area or any interest therein depicted in
the survey plan referred to at (2) above to be a building limit or a road reservation as the case may be.
24. (1)  Upon publication of the relevant Order in the Gazette the provisions of this Statue pertaining to the prohibition
of construction of buildings, doing any other thing for reconstruction shall apply to the land area or any interest
thereon specified in the said Order.
(2) Upon the declaration of a road reservations or building limits under this section of the Statue no development
work shall be executed or cause to be executed by any Government Agency or Provincial Council Agency or
Local Authority or any other person within the area so declared as a reservation, except with the prior written
approval of the Provincial Department of Road Development.
25.(1) Where any land or any interest in the land is declared as a road reservation -
 (a) such land or interest therein shall for the purpose of the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) be deemed
to be required for the public purpose; and
(b) that land or interest therein may be acquired under the Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) by the Government
for the Provincial Department of  Road Development. The provisions of the Land Acquisition Act shall
be adhered to herein.
26. (1) Where the Minister certifies that any land or interest in the land in any road reservation, vested in a Local
Authority is required for the purpose of this Statue, the Minister in consultation with the relevant Local Authority
in the relevant area may by order published in the Gazette vest such land or interest in such land in the
Provincial Department of Road Development on the concurrence of the Minister in-charge of the subject of
Local Government of the Provincial Council.
(2) An order made under subsection (1) shall confer on the Provincial Department of Road Development absolute
title to any land or interest in the land and to any buildings and other structures in the possession of or which are
being gives by the Department, as are specified in such Order with effect from the date specified therein, free
of all encumbrances compensation shall be payable by the Department in respect of such land or interest in
such land or buildings or other structures thereon.
Construction of
new roads
widening and
deviation of roads
Prohibition of
Development
Work within a
Road Reservation.
Application of
Land Acquisition
Act
Acquisition of Land
vested in a Local
Authority

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
680
27. (1)  Where any State land or part thereof is required for any of the purposes specified under this part of this
Statute, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or lease to be made under
Section 6 of the Crown Land Ordinance (Chapter 454)
(2) All assets including any right of way over all roads and other structures in the possession of, or which are
being used by the Department on the date immediately preceding the appointed date of this Statue and which
are specified in an Order made by the Minister and published in the Gazette, shall be transferred to an shall
vest in the Department with effect from the appointed date.
28. (1)  The Department may with the approval of the Minister and with the consent of the owners acquire any land
or any interest therein specified in the survey plan and in this Statue, on payment of compensation.
 (2) The Department may with the approval of the Minister acquire any land required for the purpose of giving
effect to the provisions of this Statue and to re-settle the persons displaced or affected due to the implementation
of any provisions of this Statue, on payment of compensation.
29. (1)   Purchase price of a land and award of compensation and  other related matters  shall be determined by a
Committee comprising  of the following :
(a) Chief Secretary of the Province or his representative who shall be the Chairman of the Committee;
(b) Deputy Chief Secretary (Financial Affairs) of the Provincial Council;
(c) Provincial Commissioner of Lands;
(d) Secretary, to the  Ministry in-charge of the subject of Roads;
(e) Director of the Provincial  Department of Road Development who shall be the Secretary to the
Committee;
(f) An expert in the field to be appointed by the Chief Secretary on the recommendation of the Provincial
Director of Road Development to provide necessary advice to the Committee.
(2) The quorum of the Committee shall be three members.
(3) An Assessment Report of a Valuer in the Provincial Department of   Valuation should be obtained as far as
possible at every purchase or award of compensation.
30. (1) The Department may with the approval of the Minister for the purpose of maintenance of a Road or of Public
interest, alienate any land or any interest therein held by the Department for a period not exceeding 90 days,
subject to such Terms and Conditions as may be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Provincial Director.
(2) The Provincial Director may extend the said period if further time is required for the purpose of the public.
PART V
EXECUTION OF WORKS
31. The direction and control of all work to be undertaken under this Statue shall be vested in the Provincial
Director of the Provincial Department of Road Development. The Director may delegate such power to the
other officers as appropriate.
32.  (1) The Executive Engineer may on the approval of the Director of the Provincial Development of Road
Development,by Public notice, order -
(a) the temporary closure of a provincial road; or
(b) substitution of an alternate route or alternate section of a road in lieu of an existing section of a road.
Power of
Department to
alienate land
temporarily
Acquisition of
lands for
re-settlement
Direction and
Control of works
to be vested in
the Provincial
Director.
Minister may
Order temporary
closure of a road
A Committee
to determine
purchase or
award of
compensation
Special Grant under
Crown Land
Ordinance

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
681
(2) The Executive Engineer shall notify the relevant Institution in this regard,
(3) When a closure of a road is permanent such closure shall be published in the Gazette in addition to the said
public notice.
(4) In the execution of any Order under this Section if it becomes necessary to acquire any land for such
purpose, such land shall be deemed to be required for a public purpose and the provisions of this Statue shall
apply to and in relation to such acquisition.
33. (1) No person, Government, Department, Provincial Council Institution, Local Authority or any other Institution
shall use the reservation of a road for the purpose of carrying on any electricity, telecommunication, water,
gas or any other service, without the prior written approval of the Provincial Director, Deputy Director or
Executive Engineer as the case may be.
(2) The Department may with the approval of the Provincial Director, Charge a rental from any person or
institution referred to in this section for using a road reservation for any of the services referred to in this
section.
(3) The Provincial Director, Deputy Director of Executive Engineer as the case may be, may on behalf of the
Department enter into Agreements, subject to the provisions of any special enactment in that behalf and
subject to the approval of the Minister, with any person or Government Department, a Provincial Council
Institution or Local Authority or any other Institution of any road or road reservation for the for the purpose
of carrying on any electricity, telecommunication, water, gas or any other service.
(4) In the event of widening or the improvement or deviation of a road, the Provincial Director, Deputy Director
or Executive Engineer as the case may be notice require any person to remove or shift any physical structure
or pipe line erected or laid by such person at the own cost of that person with the time period specified in the
notice.
(5) Where the Executive Engineer is unable or unwilling to remove any obstruction referred to in this section due
to any resistance or if the person responsible for causing such obstruction cannot be found, the Executive
Engineer may make an application in that behalf to the Magistrate Court having Jurisdiction.
(6) The Magistrate may after considering the facts of the said application direct the fiscal to remove such
obstruction forthwith.
34. (1) No person shall for the purpose of any public service, or private enterprise make use of a road or executive
any work thereon or setup or maintain any plant or erection thereupon, except under an in accordance with
the Terms and Conditions of Agreement referred to in Section 33.
(2) Provided however that before any excavation, digging or cutting of any road is allowed to commence in
pursuing of any such Agreement the cost of reservation or repair of such road after such excavation, digging
or cutting as estimated by the Executive Engineer and an additional deposit as prescribed by the Provincial
Director shall be paid to the Department and such money shall be utilized for the restoration of the road.
(3) Povided further that if there is any additional cost incurred by the Department outside of any amount estimated,
such amount shall be deducted from the additional refundable profit paid to the Department and the balance
remaining shall thereafter be refunded.
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of an offense
and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to pay the cost of the estimate of the
damage prepared by the Executive Engineer and to a fine not exceeding Hundred Thousand Rupees.
No service to be
carried out on a
road without the
permission of the
Department.
No public service
or private
enterprise to
make use of a
road without
authority.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
682
35. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement referred to in Section 33 or anything to the contrary in
any other written law, it shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to issue notice to any person who has,  in
pursuance of an agreement referred to in Section 33, caused an obstruction to any road, or caused obstruction
to the widening or improvement or deviation of a road, to remove or abate such obstruction to the satisfaction
of the Executive Engineer, within such period of time as may be specified in that notice.
(2) Where such person fails or neglects to remove or abate such obstruction or to remove or shift such physical
structure or pipeline, within such period of time it shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer or any person
authorized by him to remove or abate such obstructions or to remove or shift such physical structure or
pipeline and recover the costs incurred in that connection.
(3) Any person who fails to remove the obstruction referred to at Sub-section (2) above as provided for in Section
33(6) above shall be guilty of an offence and after summary trial before a Magistrate, shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding five thousand rupees and to the recovery of the expenses incurred for the removal of such
obstruction.
(4) No compensation shall be payable to such person for any breach of such agreement resulting from such
removal or abatement or shifting, as the case may be.
36. (1) Any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director may at all reasonable time of the day and upon
notifying the occupier thereof, of their intention, enter upon any land adjacent to any existing or proposed road
or upon any land to be declared in future as new road reservation with all necessary vehicles, equipments,
tools and other requisites and perform all acts and thing as may necessary for the purpose of -
(a) surveying, measuring, tracing, working, opening, altering, turning,  repairing, clearing, improving or
fencing thereupon;
(b) constructing, excavating, repairing,  clearing or improving any bridge, causeway, earth retaining structure,
culvert, drain, fence or ditch thereupon; and
(c) erecting of temporary quarters or repairing any building for the use of any such officer and his workmen.
(2) Any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director may at all reasonable times of the day and upon
notifying the occupier thereof of their intention, enter upon any land adjacent to any existing or proposed road,
to search for, dig, cut, take and carry away water, timber, brushwood, stone, gravel, sand or any other material
from any land adjacent or near to any existing or proposed road for the purpose referred to under (a) - (c) in
Sub Section (1) above.
 37. (1) In the event of the necessary arising to effect emergency repairs to a road, it shall be lawful for any officer or
servant authorized by the Provincial Director to carry away from any land in the vicinity of any such road, any
material, which is required for such purpose.
(2) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director to carryout any activities under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall take all necessary steps to avoid unnecessary hardship to the owner or occupants of such
land.
(3) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director to carryout any activities under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall obtain any material from any land if such materials can be conveniently obtained from any
adjacent state land.
(4) The Department shall pay to the owner of the land from which any material has been removed reasonable
compensation for the material so removed and for any damage caused in obtaining and transporting the same.
(5) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director to carryout any activities under the provisions of
subsection (1) shall take all safety measures for fencing, or barricading of pits and quarries from where any
such materials had been removed.
Executive
Engineer may
remove
obstructions
Certain person
to be
empowered to
survey
measure &
etc. on a road
Right of entry
to lands in the
vicinity of a
road.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
683
38. (1) It shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director when carrying out a survey
for the improvement for construction of any road, bridge, causeway, culvert or earth retaining structure or
carrying out improvements or repairs thereto, or constructing any new road, bridge, causeway, culvert or earth
retaining structure, to make or erect temporary buildings on any land adjacent thereto for the accommodation
of such officers workmen machinery and equipment.
(2) No officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director under the provisions of subsection (1) shall erect
a building on any land under cultivation or on any developed land if there is suitable waste land or state land
within close proximity available for the purpose.
(3) The Department shall pay reasonable compensation for the use of such land, for any damages done thereto, to
the owner of such land.
39. (1)  When surveying for a new road, bridge, causeway, culvert or earth retaining structure, or during the progress
of work connected with the maintenance, repair or construction of a road, bridge, causeway, culvert or earth
retaining structure or cleaning any earthslip, it shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the
Provincial Director to dispose any rubble or waste material by dumping the same on any land adjacent thereto.
(2) An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director shall take all necessary steps to avoid unnecessary
hardship to the owner or occupants of such land in carrying out any action under the provisions of subsection
(1).
40. (1) It shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director to make temporary road for
the diversion of traffic through an adjacent land at any time during closure of  bridge, causeway, culvert or
earth retaining structure for repairs or reconstruction or closure of a road or rehabilitation or reconstruction.
      (2) Provided that such diversion shall not require the demolition of any building nor encroach on any enclosure
garden or yard.
41.  It shall be lawful for any officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or the Executive Engineer to
cut and remove all trees, bushes, shrubs, branches, leaves or roots that caused damages to a road and obstruction
to the passage of traffic street lighting visibility road signs, traffic light signals and road furniture, and for that
purpose to enter upon any land or premises with the necessary workmen tools and equipment for the cutting,
lopping and the removal of such trees, bushes, shrubs, branches or roots as the case may be.
42. It shall be lawful for any officer or servant or any other person authorized by the Provincial Director or the
Executive Engineer to put up or make fences, barricades, ditches, drains or bank alongside any road.
43.  An officer or servant authorized by the Provincial Director or the Executive Engineer shall have power to
make scour cleanse or keep open all ditches, drains, culverts and bridge opening, water course. No owner or
occupier of any adjacent lands shall do any act or thing that would interfere with or cause damage to the
aforesaid acts.
44.(1)  Any person who sustains any loss or damage as a result of the exercise by any officer or servant authorized
by the Provincial Director or the Executive Engineer to carry out any act, in the exercise of any power
conferred by this Statute shall be entitled to receive compensation for the same.
(2)  A person shall make an application to the Provincial Director or to the Executive Engineer within the period
of 03 months from the date of alleged damage had been caused requesting the payment of compensation for
the same. No application made after this period shall be entertained for this purpose.
Erection of
temporary
buildings on
lands for
construction of a
road.
Rubble and
waste to be
disposed on
adjacent land.
Construction of
temporary road.
Cutting, lopping
and etc., of trees
to facilitate
construction of a
road.
Erection of
fences alongside
a road.
Drains, etc. to be
kept open.
Compensation to
be paid for
damage to
property.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
684
PART VI
PROTECTION OF ROADS
45. (1) The owner or occupier of a land which abuts or adjoins a Provincial Road shall enjoy the  right of access or
egress from the road without causing any impediment blockage or damage to the road, retaining structure, road
reservation or to the road.
(2) Provided the said owner or occupier shall not be entitled to any right which in any way affect the road.
46. (1) No person shall commence any building or erect any wall, fence or any other structure alongside a road or
placed any temporary fence or enclosure on or alongside any road within the road limits referred to in section
8, without the prior approval of the Provincial Director or the Executive Engineer.
(2) Where any person has acted without the free prior approval specified in subsection (1) above, it shall be lawful
for the Executive engineer with the sanction to cause any such building to be demolished or any such fence,
wall or structure to be dismantled and removed and to recover the cost of such removal from such person.
(3) Provided that any such demolishing and dismantling and removal shall be carried out only upon giving the
owner or occupier adequate notice of such impending demolition, dismantling and removal as the case may be.
47. (1) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to permit any person on payment of a fee to temporary use any
part of a road to erect a temporary fence or enclosure in order to carryout demolition repair or construction
work to his house or building including the right to erect decoration of a temporary character subject to the
following conditions:
(a) that the person to whom permission is granted shall at night-time keep a light of sufficient intensity upon
the premises for so long as such temporary enclosure or structure is in existence; and
(b) the sufficient room on the road shall be made available for the movement of traffic and pedestrian
without hindrance.
(2) Any public officer connected with the distribution of any service to the public may notwithstanding the provisions
of Section 34 or subsection (1) of Section 35 at circumstances where the distribution of the service becomes
urgent and there is no adequate time to obtain prior approval and the delaying of execution  of such service
may be prejudicial to the public well being, make temporary use of any part of a road.
(3) Provided any act under subsection (2) shall be notified to the Executive Engineer or to the Provincial Director
forthwith and the institutions providing such services shall pay to the Department the amount estimated by the
Executive Engineer to restore the damage caused to the road or road reservation or ditch or any part of the
road in providing such service.
(4) Notwithstanding anything specified in any written law no permit or license shall be issued for any construction
unless the prior approval specified in this section has been obtained.
48. (1) No person shall re-erect or make any additional to any building, gateway, or any other structure or construct a
basement or other underground structure or dig a well, pond,  shaft or any other structure within the building
limit referred to under Section 8 of this Statute.
(2) The construction of boundary fence, wall beyond the building limit shall not impede any construction.
(3) The Provincial Director may grant permission under special circumstance to erect a construction of religious
importance within a road reservation having regard to the width of the road the visibility available for traffic
and the proper upkeep of the road that the enforcement of said construction subject to the conditions that the
area of road specified in an approved plan shall not be exceeded and subject to other suitable conditions.
The right to
owners or
occupiers of land
adjacent to a road
to access the
road.
No building to
commence on
land within road
limits without
approval.
Obtaining
permission for
erection of
temporary
enclosures
No construction
on or under the
land within the
building limit.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
685
49. The Minister may by Order published in Section IV of the the Government Gazette, specify the building limit
alongside a road or a part of a road on the recommendation of the Provincial Director.
50. (1) If any person erect any structure or make any addition to an existing structure in contravention of the provisions
of Section 48, the Executive Engineer shall by written notice require such person to demolish or remove such
structure or any addition thereto on or before such date as may be specified in such notice being a date not
earlier than 7 days from the date thereof.
(2) It shall be the duty of the person on whom a notice is issued under subsection (1), to comply with the requirements
specified in such notice within the time specified therein or within such extended time as may be granted by the
Executive Engineer on application made that behalf.
(3) (a) Where in pursuance of a notice issued under subsection (1) any structure is not demolish or remove
within such time or extended time as the case may be, the Executive Engineer may apply to the Magistrate
for mandatory order authorizing the Executive Engineer to cause such structure to be demolished or
removed.
(b) The Magistrate may if he is satisfied as to be existing of the facts, issue notice on the person who had fail
to comply with the requirements of the notice issued by the Executive Engineer under subsection (1) to
demolish or remove such structure and thereafter make Order accordingly.
(c) If the person, who had erected the structure in contravention of Section 34, undertakes to demolish or
remove such structure, the Magistrate may if he thinks fit extend the operation of the Order for a reasonable
period not exceeding 60 days.
(4) (a) where a mandatory order has been made for the removal of a structure of religious significance and
where such structure can be safely removed then such structure shall be removed and handed over to the
organization or institution responsible for erecting such structure.
(b) where the Executive Engineer is unable to handover the structure as specified in paragraph (a), the
Executive Engineer shall notify the same to the Magistrate and disposed of the structure on the instruction
of the Magistrate with new respective and care.
(5) Where a mandatory order has been made under sub-section (3) it shall be the duty of the Police render all
necessary assistance to the Executive Engineer in the execution of such order.
(6) The Chief Engineer shall be entitled to recover any reasonable expenses incurred by him in demolishing or
removing any structure in pursuance of an Order made by the Magistrate under sub-section (3).
51. A compensation as determined by the compensation committee referred to in section 16 shall be paid to the
person entitled for such compensation for the whole of a structure or a part thereof situated within the building
limit.
52.(1) The Executive Engineer may, where it appears to him that -
(a) any road  has been obstructed or encroached ;
(b) the boundary line of any road has been altered without proper authority; or
(c) any road has been barricaded without proper authority,
by any person, direct such person by notice in written to remove the said obstruction, encroachment,
alteration or barricade within the time as the Executive Engineer has specified in the notice.
 (2) Where any such obstruction encroachment barricade or alteration is not removed and the road is not cleared
or the boundary line is not restored within the time specified by the Executive Engineer, the Executive Engineer
shall cause such obstruction encroachment barricade or alteration to be removed or cleared or restored as the
case may be. It shall be lawful to recover from the offender any expense incurred by the Executive Engineer
in doing so.
Modification of
building limits.
Procedure to be
followed in case
of erection of
structure in
contravention of
Section 48.
Compensation for
lands with
buildings thereon.
Obstruction
encroachment etc
of a road.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
686
 (3) Where the Executive Engineer is unable or apprehends that due to any obstruction or resistance as will be or is
likely to be offered, he will be unable to remove or clear or restore the road, the Executive Engineer shall on
application made in that behalf to the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction or the area where the road which
was obstructed encroached or barricaded or altered is situated, praying for an order of the Court directing the
Fiscal to take down and remove or clear or restore such obstruction encroachment barricade or alteration as
the case may be.
(4) Where an order under subsection (3) is issued by a Magistrate, the Fiscal shall forthwith executive such order
and shall thereafter in writing report to Court such facts along with a narrative of the manner in which it was
executed.
53. Any plan or survey under the authority of the Provincial Director shall be admissible in evidence and shall be
prima facie proof of the facts stated therein.
54. For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the state land, it shall be the duty of the Provincial
Department to permit and protect the rights of the public to the use of any road without any hindrance or
inconvenience.
55.(1) Every person who without lawful authority or excuse –
(a) Digs a drain or excavates on any part of a road which consists of a carriageway;
(b) Remove the soil or turf from any part of a road without the permission of the Executive Engineer;
(c) Lights any fire or discharges any material on a road causing damaged to the same;
(d) Operates a vehicle in such manner that the materials projecting from the vehicle damages the carriageway
of a road;
(e) Pulls down or obliterate a traffic sign a traffic signal placed on or over a road or a kilometers stone or a
lamp post or direction post or any other similar contrivance or device so placed on a road;
(f)  Paints, or inscribes or affixes or creates any picture, letter, sign, statute, hoarding or other mark upon the
carriageway of a road;
Shall be guilty of an offense under this Statute and shall be liable on conviction after a summery trial by a
Magistrate in the case of a first offense to a fine not exceeding Five Thousand and in the case of second or
subsequent offense, to a fine not exceeding Fifty Thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offense to a
fine of Five Thousand for each day after conviction during which the offense is continued.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to remove any picture, letter sign statue, hoarding, notice or other
mark on a road.
56.(1) The Provincial Director may, having regard to the safety of the uses of a road, impose temporary load restrictions
on any road or section of a road or on any bridge.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an offense and shall on conviction
after a summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable in the case of a first offense to a fine not exceeding Ten
Thousand rupees and in the case of second or subsequent offense, to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand and in
the case of continuation of the offence to a fine not exceeding hundred thousand.
57.(1) Where the foot walk, reservation or a retaining wall of a road is damaged –
(a) by or in consequence of any excavation or other work being carried out on the land adjacent to the road;
or
(b) by a motor vehicle being driven onto the  road;
the Executive Engineer shall forthwith repair the damage and recover the expenses as are reasonably
incurred by him in doing so from the owner of the land or the person responsible for causing the damage.
Survey to be
prima facie proof
Protection of
right to use a
road.
Painting pictures
etc along a road
an offense.
Restriction of
load on a road or
a bridge.
Damage and
obstruction to
food walk by
excavation etc.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
687
(2) Any person who fails to make the relevant payments shall be guilty an offence and shall on  conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable to pay the amount of the estimate of the damage prepared by the
Executive Engineer and to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand together with.
 (3) Where the foot walk of a road is obstructed by parking of a vehicle the person responsible for such parking
shall be guilty of an offense under this Statue and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate, be
liable in the case of a first offense to a fine five thousand rupees in the case of second or subsequent offence,
to a fine not exceeding ten thousand .
58.(1) Every person who without lawful authority or reasonable excuse in any way willfully obstructs the passage of
vehicle or pedestrian along a road shall be guilty of an offense and be liable on conviction after a summary trial
by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand and in the case of a second or sub sequence offense to
a fine a not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand
rupees for each day after convection during which the offense is continued.
(2) A police officer may arrest without warrant any person who is committing an offense under Section (1) above.
59.(1)  Any person who without lawful authority or excuse deposits sand, stone, timber or any other material on a
road shall be guilty of an offense and be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding five thousand rupees and in the case of a second or sub sequence offense to a fine a not exceeding
ten thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand rupees for each day after
convection during which the offense is continued.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer or a Police Officer to order the owner of the sand, stone, timber
or any other material which is deposited within the building limit of a road to remove or deposit such material
in another place.
(3) Any person who fails to comply with the order issued under sub paragraph (2) shall be guilty of an offense and
be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and
in the case of a second or sub sequence offense to a fine a not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in the case
of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand for each day after convection during which the offense is
continued.
(4) When the owner fails to remove sand, stone, timber or any other materials in pursuance of the directive under
subsection (3) it shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer with the assistance of a police officer to cause such
material to be removed to a suitable location away from the road and to charge the estimated costs of removal
to the owner.
60. (1)  Any person who, without the lawful authority or excuse plants a tree or shrub in a made up carriageway, traffic
island, shoulder or foot walk of a road shall be guilty of an offense and be liable on conviction after a summary
trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand  and in the case of a second or subsequent offense
to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees and in the case of continuing offenses to a fine of five thousand
rupees for each day after conviction during which the offense is continued.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Executive Engineer to require the person who planted such tree or shrub to remove it
within three days or cause it to be removed.
61.(1) The Executive Engineer may permit any person to plant and maintain trees, shrub, grass and plants within a
roundabout or traffic island or along the shoulders of a road such permission shall be granted subject to the
requirement that the trees, shrubs and plant shall be grown only to such a height as is specified taking into
consideration the movement of traffic and pedestrians’ safety and visibility of the road to drivers or rider.
(2) The Executive Engineer may permit any person or a body of persons which has obtained permission under
Subsection (1) above to undertake the planting and maintenance of a specified area along the road and to place
a name board not exceeding zero point seven five (0.75) meters height from the ground.
62. Any person who drops earth sand, or any such material or spills water, oil or any such fluid while transporting it
in a vehicle on a road shall be guilty of an offense under this Statue.
Restriction of
planting trees,
shrubs, in or
near road
reservation.
Executive
Engineer to
grant permission
to plant trees,
shrubs, turf and
plants.
Obstruction of
road to be an
offense.
Depositing of
materials on a
road to be an
offence.
Dropping earth,
sand or stone etc.
on a road to be an
offense.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
688
63. No person  shall erect a gate or barrier a cross a road without obtaining the prior permission of the Executive
Engineer. Any person so erects a gate or barrier shall be guilty of an offense under this Statue.
64. The Executive Engineer may by notice in writing to the owner or occupier of a land adjoining a road, require him
to within twenty eight days of the date of service of the notice, to carry out such works thereon as are necessary
to prevent soil or refuse from that land being washed or carried on to the road or into a gully hereof so as to
damage or obstruct the road or choke the gully. Any person who fails to give effect to such a notice within a
reasonable time shall be guilty of an offense.
65. The Executive Engineer may by notice to the owner or occupier of any building, require him to remove or alter
any unauthorized porch, projecting roof, projecting window, steps wall, gate or any such things and which has
been erected or placed in front of a building which causes an obstruction to the safe passage of vehicles and
pedestrians along a road. Any person who fails to give effect to such a notice within a reasonable time shall be
guilty of an offense.
66.(1) Where an offense is committed under the provisions of Sections 62, 63, 64 and 65 the Executive Engineer shall
on being inform of such fact give notice in writing to the person committing the offense that he shall forthwith
take measures to stop or abate the commission of the offense.
(2) If the person on whom the notice is served under subsection (1) fails to comply with the requirement therein,
such person shall be subject to summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and
in the case of a second or subsequent offense to a fine not exceeding ten thousand and in the case of continuing
offenses to a fine of five thousand for each day after convection during which the offense is continued.
(3) Where an offense under sections 62 to 65 is continued the Magistrate may issue a mandatory order authorizing
the Executive Engineer to demolish or remove the structure or thing which is the subject of the offense. The
Executive Engineer shall with the assistance of the police cause such structure or thing to be removed and
recover the cost so incurred from the offender.
67.(1) No person shall put up any door or gate upon any premises to open outwards on to a road except with written
consent of the Executive Engineer given in exceptional circumstances.
(2) Where a door or gate is put up in contravention of subsection (1), the Executive Engineer may by notice to the
occupier, require him to alter the door or gate so as not to open outward on to the road.
(3) Where a notice has been served on any person under sub-section (2) requiring him to comply with the notice,
fails to comply with the requirement of the notice within 14 days from the date of service of the notice, he shall
be guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding one thousand  and the Magistrate shall order such person to alter such door or gate as stipulated in
Sub-section (1) above.
68.(1) Where a tree shrub or hedge overhangs a road in such a manner as to obstruct or endanger  the passage of
vehicle or any user of a road or interferes with the view of drivers of vehicle or the light from a public lamp the
Executive Engineer may, by notice issued either to the owner or occupier of the land on which the tree, shrub
or hedge is located, require him within seven days to lop or cut eat so as to remove the cause of the danger or
interference as the case may be.
(2) If a person to whom a notice is served under sub-section (1) fails to comply with the requirement of the notice
within the specified period the Executive Engineer may carry out the work required to be made by the notice
and recover the expenses reasonably incurred in so doing from the person.
(3) It the owner or the occupier referred to in subsection (1) above, does not duly remove the obstruction, he shall
be guilty an offence and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding Ten Thousand. and in case of second or subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding Twenty tThousand
Rupees and in the case of continuing offence to a fine of Five Thousand for each day after conviction during
which the offence is continued and to payment of the amount of the estimate prepared by the Executive
Engineer to remove such obstruction.
Erection of
barriers etc.
across a road.
Preventing soil
being washed
onto a road.
Power to remove
projection etc.
across a road.
Notice of
commission of
offense to be
given by the
Executive
Engineer.
Doors or gates
along a road not
to open
outwards.
Cutting and
felling of trees
over hanging
onto a road.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
689
69.(1) If an animal is at any time found straying or lying on or within the reservation of a road its keeper or owner or both
shall be guilty of an offense.
 (2) Any person guilty of an offense under subsection (1) shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding Five Thousand Rupees and a find not exceeding one Thousand Rupees for
every subsequence offense.
(3) Any animal straying or lying on a road shall be seized by a cattle seizer authorized by the Executive Engineer and
shall be tied in a premises owned or rented by such authorized cattle seizer and approved by the Executive
Engineer.
Provided that such authorized cattle seizer is on contract with the Executive Engineer and every such animal
seized by him shall be reported forthwith by the Executive Engineer to the nearest police station and to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction over such place.
(4) The Executive Engineer shall ensure the safe custody of the animal seized and shall ensure the feeding of such
animal.
(5) No such animal seized shall be delivered to the owner unless upon the payment of the fine imposed by the
Magistrate.
(6) If no person claims the animal and pays the fine within seven days from the date of imposition of such fine, it shall
be lawful for the Executive Engineer, to sell the animal by public auction and pay the proceeds from such sale to
the  Magistrate having jurisdiction over such place to be credited to the Provincial Council Funds after the
expenses reasonably incurred by the Executive Engineer in connection with seizing and feeding the animal being
recovered.
70.    If a person without lawful authority or excuse –
(a) Deposits or throws anything whatsoever;
(b) Lights any fire or discharges any firework;
(c) Allows any dirt, filth or offensive matter;
(d) Hangs or causes to be hanged any rope or equipment;
onto a road so as to injure or endanger users of road, he shall be guilty of an offense and shall be liable on
conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate in the case of first offense to a fine not exceeding Five Thousand
rupees an in case of second or subsequent offense to a fine not exceeding Ten Thousand rupees and in the case
of continuing offense to a fine of Five Thousand Rupees for each day after convection during which the offense
if continued.
71.(1) No person shall in connection with any building or demolishing or alteration, repair, maintenance or cleaning of
any building, erect or retaining on or over a road any scaffolding or any other structure which obstruct the road
unless he is authorized to do so by a license issued by the Executive Engineer and complies with the terms and
conditions of the license.
(2) If a person applies  to the Executive Engineer for a license in respect of any structure referred to in subsection
(1) and furnishes the Executive Engineer with such particulars relating to the structure as Executive Engineer
may reasonably demand, the Executive Engineer shall in issuing a license  impose the conditions–
(a) that the construction area sufficiently lit during the hours of darkness;
(b) that a red coloured flag be conspicuously displayed on the part projecting onto the road; and
(c) Pertaining to the construction and maintenance of certain traffic control equipment.
(3) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or who fails without reasonable excuse to comply
with the license issued under subsection (2) shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to
a fine not exceeding Fifty Thousand Rupees.
Permitting
animals to stray
on a road to be
an offense.
Depositing or
throwing any
material or
fireworks onto a
road to be an
offence
Permission to be
obtained for the
erection of
scaffolding etc.
on a road.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
690
72.(1) A Person may with the consent of the Executive Engineer, temporarily deposit building material or other things
on a road or make temporary excavation in it.
(2) The Executive Engineer may give his consent under subsection (1), subject to such conditions as he thinks fit,
including in particular, conditions –
(a) for preventing impediments to traffic movements caused by temporarily piling up of building materials;
(b) to the effect that loading and unloading shall not cause any damage to the road, road reservation, road
shoulder or to the drainage system and that the Executive Engineer should charge such damage if caused
to the person causing such damage.
 (c) for preventing damage or ensuring access, to utility services.
(3) It hall be the duty of the person who makes such a deposit or excavation, to comply with any directions given to
him by the Executive Engineer with respect to the erection and maintenance of traffic signs in connection with
such deposit or excavation.
(4) Where a person places any building materials or any other thing on, or makes an excavation in a road, public
road or national highway he shall not allow the obstruction or excavation to remain in the road, public road or
national highway any longer than the period allowed by the Executive Engineer and in addition he shall.
(a) Ensure that the obstruction or excavation to be properly fenced and to be properly lit during the hours of
darkness; and
(b) If required by the Executive Engineer, remove the obstruction or fill in the excavation.
(5) Any person who –
(a) Without reasonable excuse or cause fails to comply with any conditions subject to which a consent is
given under subsection (1);
(b) Without reasonable excuse or cause fails to perform the duty imposed on him under subsection (3);
(c) Fails to perform a duty  imposed on him under subsection (4);
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be liable on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not
exceeding Twenty Thousand Rupees in respect of each day on which such contravention or failure occurs.
73. (1)  A person or contractor who is responsible for executing works on a road shall –
(a) erect such barriers and traffic signs as are required by the Executive Engineer for preventing danger to
traffic for regulating traffic and warning traffic of danger until the work is completed and shall remove
them as soon as the work is completed.
 (b) ensure that the work to be properly guarded and lit during the hours of darkness.
(2) If any person or contractor fails to comply with requirement of subsection (1), he shall be guilty of an offense
and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding Five Thousand
rupees in respect of each day on which failure continues.
(3) Any person who without lawful authority or excuse –
(a) takes down, removes, or alters any barrier traffic sign or light erected or place in pursuance of subsection
(1) for the purpose of warning the users of a road of any obstruction or further purpose of protecting the
users on road from danger arising out of an obstruction; and
(b) extinguishes a light so placed,
shall be guilty of an offense and shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine
not exceeding Ten Thousand Rupees.
Permission to be
obtained for
depositing of
building material
etc. along a road.
Precautions to
be taken when
carrying out
road works.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
691
PART VII
PROVISIONS AND SPECIAL POWERS RELA TING TO LANGUAGES
75.(1) Every notice required to be served under this Statute shall be in the Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
(2) Every notice addressed to any person may be sent by registered post or served personally upon such person or
such notice may be left with some member of his household of it may be affixed to some conspicuous part of his
house and a notice served in any of foregoing methods shall be deemed to be personal and due service.
76.(1) No person shall place or fix any traffic sign overhead beam, pipe, cable, wire, gantries, hoardings or rail or other
similar apparatus over, along or across a road without the permission of the Executive Engineer.
(2) No person shall construct a vault, mine, pit or any such things under any road without the permission of the
Executive Engineer.
(3) No person shall carry out any excavation exceeding three meters in depth within a distance of fifty meters from
the center of a road without the permission of the Executive Engineer.
(4) No person shall carry out any sand mining at or near any bridge causeway or any structure within a distance of
one hundred and fifty meters from the extreme edge of the bridge, causeway or structure or at or near any road
without the permission of the Executive Engineer.
(5) The Executive Engineer shall be able to obtain a security deposit in relation to any damage caused of may cause
pertaining to matters contained in subsections (1) and (2) above or to recover the estimated damages from the
person or institution which causes such damage.
(6) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1), (2), (3),(4) or (5) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand
rupees.
77.(1) No person shall connect any access road to a road unless upon the permission granted by the Executive Engineer.
  (2) The Executive Engineer shall in granting the said permission, take into consideration of  –
(a)  any blockage to the drain of water;
(b) any damaged to any ditch or retaining wall or to road shoulder;
(c) the recovery of expenses incurred to repair any damages to the road in connecting an access road to the
road.
(3) Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offense and shall on
conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees
and to pay to the Executive Engineer the cost he incurred in restoring the road by removing the connection such
person effected. .
78. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written law it  shall be the duty  of any individual authority
or institution granting licenses for carrying on any business abutting any road to obtain the consent of the Executive
Engineer of the area before issuing such license.
79.    It shall be the duty of all police officers Divisional Secretaries and all Grama Niladhari to aid and assist in the
prevention of any offence as may be committed in contravention of the provisions of this Statue within their
respective area of authority.
80.(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or   giving effect to any matter which is
prescribed under this Statue or in respect of which regulations are required to be made.
Language of
Notices.
Control of
constructions
etc.
Restriction of
access to a road
Clearance of
Executive
Engineer
essential.
Duty of officers
in preventing an
offence
The Minister
may make
regulations.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
692
(2) In particular and without prejudice to generality of the powers conferred on him by subsection (1), the Minister
may make regulations in respect of all or any of the following matters namely –
(a) The levying of fees from vehicles which transport sand, stone, soil or such other mineral so as to enable
the reimbursement of the expenses incurred in repairing the damages caused frequently to a road as a
result of running such vehicles along such road taking into consideration of the capacity and the nature of
the road;
(b) The form to be used in giving notice of infringement of the provisions of this Statue;
(c) The prevention of ribbon development along the road.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be publish in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date
such publication or on such later date as may be specified therein.
(4) Every   regulation shall as soon as convenient after publication in the Gazette be brought before the Provisional
Council for approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of the disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done there under.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded, shall be
publish in Part IV of the Gazette.
81.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statue the Sinhala text shall prevail.
82. North Western Provincial Road Development Authority Statue No. 1 of 2000 of the North Western Provincial
Council shall be repeal with effect from the appointed dated.
PART VIII
INTERPRETATION
83. In this Statue unless the context otherwise requires –
“Governor”  means the Governor of the North Western Province;
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the North Western Province;
“Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of road in the North Western Provincial Council;
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Minister in-charge of the  subject of road in the North Western Provincial
Council;
“Department” means the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development;
“Provincial Director” means the Director of the North Western Provincial Department of Road Development;
“Deputy Director” means the officer holding the post of Deputy Director - I and Deputy Director II of the North
Western Provincial Department of Road Development;
“Head Quarter Engineer” means an Engineer serving in the Head Office of the Department of Road Development
of the North Western Provincial Council;
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Repeal of North
Western
Provincial Road
Development
Authority Statue.
Interpretation

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
693
“Executive Engineer” means the Executive Engineer serving in the Head Office of the North Western Provincial
Department of Road Development;
The Provincial Director shall be a Class I Officer of the Sri Lanka Engineers’ Service and all other Engineer
including the Deputy Director should be serving officer of the Sri Lanka Engineers’ Service.
“Road” includes –
(a) All carriage ways and roads mentioned in the First Schedule of this Statue other than those which come
under the purview of  National Thoroughfares Act No.40 of 2008 or any Local Government Institution
within the North Central Province and the Minister may declare from  time to time;
(b)   All flyovers or   interchanges belonging to the Department;
(c) All culverts, bridges, drains, and embankment causeways, viaducts, interchanges, ditches, path ways,
cart ways and ditches belonging or appertaining to a road;
(d) All water causes where boats and barges move along and ferries;
(e) The reservation within building limit of a road and all lands situated within adjacent or outside the said
limit;
(f)   All land adjoining road reservation which has been reserved for its projection and benefit;
(g) All land which has been marked off  and reserved for construction of any road; and
(h) All waste land which not been private property lies within a distance of 10 meters of the centre of public
carriage ways and cart ways and three meters of the centre of public path ways.
The burden of proving that such waste land is private property lying on the person asserting the same.
“Reservation” means in relations to a road all land adjoining and beyond the drains or the verge of a public road
which has been reserved for its safety, protection and benefit and for the future development of the road;
“Right of way” means the carriage way, shoulders, verge, drains and the reservation of a road;
“Work” means all road works and shall include –
(a) Work associated with the erection or creation of a structure;
(b) Creation modification or felling of a trench;
(c) Earth work.
“River” means river stream or canal or water cause;
“Government Agency” means a Government Ministry, Department, Government Office, Corporation, Board or
Authority;
“Institution of the Provincial Council” means a Ministry, Department or an Institution establish under a Statue of
the North Western Provincial Council; and
“Local Government Body” means a Municipal Council, Urban Council and Pradeshiya Shabas in the North
Western Province.
“Keeper” in relation to an animal means the person in whose possession animal is or should have been.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
694
SCHEDULE 1
Kurunegala District
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)
01 Yangalmodara - Morawalapitiya Road C 10.65
02 Urulamulla - Thalwatta Road C 8.00
03 Boyawalana - Thalwatta Road D 10.52
04 Diuwrumpitiya - Maharachchimulla Road C 4.50
05 Maharachchimulla - Pelawatta Road C 6.30
06 Wadakada - Pannala Road C 4.80
07 Bujjamuwa Railway Station Road D 0.40
08 Ritigahadeniya - Kandayaya Road C 4.00
09 Maharachchimulla - Wennoruwa Road C 4.30
10 Alawwa - Kebellewita Road C 3.52
1 1 Agbowa - Nawathalwatta Road D 4.60
12 Othara - Kiriwanapola - Thumbulla Road D 2.00
13 Dammehara - Damunupola Road D 3.20
14 Pathaduwa - Kiralabokka Road C 6.00
15 Uhumeeya - Mahapitiya Road C 5.90
16 Uhumeeya - Keenagaspitiya Road C 9.60
17 Piduruwella - Sandagala Road D 4.12
18 Weerambugedara - Ruwangirikanda Road D 3.00
19 Mahapitiya - Udugama Road D 3.60
20 Kiralabokka - Hanwella Road D 3.00
21 Madawala - Mudunna Road D 2.00
22 Hiripathwella - Werellapola Road D 1.50
23 Pahalamadawala - Sandagala Road D 1.50
24 Pothuhera - Wadakada Road C 7.92
25 Godawela - Aragoda Road C 7.10
26 Puhuriya - Polgahawela Road C 3.50
27 Bandawa - Mawatta Road D 5.20
28 Hondella - Mahapitiya Road C 6.40
29 Udapola - Kaluhendiwela Road C 2.80

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
695
30 Panaliya - Denagamuwa Road C 2.96
31 Amunugama - Gepallawa Road C 6.58
32 Approach Road to Polgahawela Government Buildings D 0.64
33 Panaliya - Udugama Road C 2.00
34 Aragoda - Walgama Road D 0.52
35 Godawela - Weeragala Road D 2.24
36 Rathmalgoda - Kurundugolla Road D 3.20
37 Godawela - Epakanda Road D 4.00
38 Denagamuwa - Aragoda Road D 4.00
39 Hondella - Polpitiya Road C 4.40
40 Pothuhera - Kuriyampola Road D 4.00
41 Metikumbura - Kolamunamulla Road C 1.60
42 Amunugama - Namuruwakanda Road D 1.16
43 Panaliya - Edelwatta Road D 2.00
44 Badagamuwa - Wellawa Road C 1 1.40
45 Rangama - Gonagama Road C 10.40
46 Boyagane - Bogamuwa - Mathawa Road C 6.80
47 Malpitiya - Aluthmalkaduwawa Road C 4.20
48 Jayanthipura - Wilbawa Road C 4.00
49 Malkaduwawa - Kawdawatta Road C 6.63
50 Yanthampalawa - Wewagedara Road C 2.70
51 Lakeround - Kudagalgamuwa Road C 8.80
52 Porapola - Thalwita Road D 2.56
53 Rangama - Bamunapotha Road C 4.80
54 Approach Road to Kurunegala Government Buildings D 0.40
55 Approach Road to Governor’s Office D 0.40
56 Henamulla - Thalkota Road D 3.40
57 Wellawa - DeduruOya Road D 2.30
58 Yaggapitiya - Uyandana Road C 3.20
59 Pilikada - Handurukkanda Road C 9.78
60 Thorayaya - Galpoththawatta Road C 3.46
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
696
61 Meddegama - Mohottawa Road C 2.80
62 Mallawapitiya - Katupitiya Road C 8.40
63 Kohilegedara - Kudumbuwa Road C 4.00
64 Thalampitya - Kohilagedara Road D 0.61
65 Ranawana - Budanapitiya Road D 4.46
66 Diyabawa - Doratiyawa Road D 5.60
67 Pilessa - Thalahengoda Road D 7.00
68 Paragahadeniya - Pussella Road C 4.40
69 Watareka - Inguruwatta Road D 4.10
70 Ilukewela - Kannadeniya Road C 4.00
71 Weuda - Malliyagoda Road C 1.90
72 Boyagoda - Malliyagoda Road C 2.88
73 Mawathagama Town Road C 0.30
74 Arampola - Thalgaspitiya Road C 1.80
75 Pileekada - Lindapitiya Road C 4.80
76 Udugama - Meethenwala Road C 4.00
77 Meegolla - Tharapotha Road C 1.60
78 Kiriwawla - Meegolla Road C 2.80
79 Kahapathwala - Iriminna Road D 8.00
80 Kawisigamuwa - Malliyagoda Road C 1 1.60
81 Lihiniwehera - Thelambugolla Road D 5.80
82 Approach Road to Rideegama AGA Office D 0.45
83 Rathwita - Gopallawa Road C 3.80
84 Gonigoda - Malliyagoda Road C 7.20
85 Rambukandana - Rideegama Road C 0.80
86 Karandagolla - Gonadeniya Road C 6.00
87 Rideegama Shopping Complex Road C 0.40
88 Segelena - Dombagedara Road D 3.00
89 Hunugalkadulla - Hangarathkotuwa Road D 2.00
90 Dodamgaslanda - Katupilagolla Road C 16.80
91 Dodamgaslanda - Ragedara Road C 7.60
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
697
92 Maduragoda - Ragedara Road C 8.00
93 Dodamgaslanda - Gokarella Road C 6.58
94 Rambodagalla - Morathiha Road C 5.93
95 Delwita - Ankumbura Road D 1.62
96 Panagamuwa - Iriyagolla Road D 4.30
97 Wegama - Galwaka - Delwita Road C 10.18
98 Ikiriwatta - Morankanda Road D 3.60
99 Ginihiriya - Pallehorombuwa Road D 0.60
100 Delwita - Ovilkanda Road C 3.40
101 Panagamuwa - Mirissala Road D 3.00
102 Maduragoda - Wanduressa Road D 5.00
103 Dodamgaslanda Hospital Road D 0.15
104 Delwita - Kiribathgalla Road D 4.00
105 Metiyagane - Morawalapitya Road C 5.83
106 Ambagammana - Halwella Road C 1 1.00
107 Uyanwatta - Kottapitiya Road C 6.00
108 Maradagolla - Masnoruwa Road D 2.00
109 Paranagama - Kudagammana Road D 6.00
110 2nd Mile Post Junction - Kottapitiya Road D 2.00
11 1 Kuliyapitiya - Kirindawa - Pugalla Road C 13.00
112 Vidyala Mawatha C 2.65
113 Ananda Mawatha C 0.31
114 Vijaya Mawatha C 0.30
115 Ambawa - Gaiyala Road C 3.22
116 Karagahagedara - Deegalla Road C 2.10
117 Kuliyapitya - Haggamuwa Road C 3.00
118 Pallewela - Weerambuwa Road D 1.60
119 Labuyaya - Thummodara Road C 1.60
120 Narangalla - Wadugedara Road D 2.00
121 Kithalawa - Ihalaanoruwa Road D 1.60
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
698
122 Kithalawa - Anukkane Road C 6.64
123 Anukkane - Kirimetiyawa Road D 1.70
124 Girakethikumbura - Galahitiyawa Road D 2.60
125 Kuliyapitiya - Pallapitiya Road C 1.50
126 Ambawa - Koshena Road C 7.20
127 Deegalla - Koshena Road C 9.25
128 Bujgamuwa - Elathalawa Road C 5.70
129 Approach Road to Government Buildings C 1.40
130 Kumballawa - Meenewa Road D 3.00
131 Dikwela - Inguruwatta Road D 1.85
132 Mahimpitiya - Paragodamulla Road D 2.90
133 Yakarawatta - Lepolawa Road D 2.70
134 Koongolla - Kolaniya Junction - Pallewela Road D 2.00
135 Alaluwa - Nawasigahawatta Road C 6.10
136 Kahadenigama - Koshena Road C 6.44
137 Thunthota - Pandiwela Road C 1 1.60
138 Siyambalagsruppa - Bingiriya Raod C 14.40
139 Yagamwela - Athungahakotuwa Road D 6.70
140 Meegahapelassa - Udadeniya Road C 3.80
141 Sariputhra Mawatha C 0.90
142 Bibiladeniya Junction - Palugamuwa Road C 4.60
143 Welipennagahamulla - Hewana Road C 2.90
144 Muthugala - Bihalpola Road C 10.50
145 Muruthenge - Diyadora Road D 1 1.10
146 Kotawilakanda - Weudagama Road D 8.20
147 Boraluwala - Weerambugedara Road C 5.70
148 Siyambalagaskotuwa - Alahitiyawa Road C 5.50
149 Polpitiya - Pothuwewa Road D 2.30
150 Mawiela - Horombawa Road C 13.10
151 Haskampola - Arakyala Road C 2.10
152 Bihalpola - Muwanghela Road C 6.30
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
699
153 Katupotha - Dalupothagama Road C 4.65
154 Barigoda - Haliyakotuwa Road C 4.50
155 Madalessa - Thoranegedara Road D 2.00
156  Barampola - Karandawa Road  D 3.30
157  Pohorawewa - Udugama Road  D 3.30
158  Hanthihawa - Udagama Road  C 3.50
159  Apaladeniya - Udagampolagedara Road  C 13.60
160  Thorakotuwa - Wetahapitiya Road  D 3.22
161  Kadawalagedara - Gomugamuwa Road  D 2.25
162  Barampola - Moragolla Road  D 3.60
163 Akarawatta - Tharana - Dalupotha Road C 12.90
164 Weerapokuna - Boraluwewa Road C 8.30
165 Gurugoda - Manelembuwa Road D 5.10
166 Bingiriya - Urapoththa Road D 3.10
167 Kaduruwewa - Rathmalwala Road D 2.50
168 Thalgahapitiya - Wellarawa Road C 5.10
169 Kansadaluwa - Karambeoya Road D 1.76
170 Hendiyapola - Weerapokuna - Ujekele Road D 12.00
171 Bowatta - Thisogama - Puwakgahakadawala Road C 10.60
172 Makandura Temple Road C 3.20
173 Wetakeyawa - Wilgedara Road D 3.10
174 Wetakeyawa - Hettirippuwa Road C 3.40
175 Singakkuliya - Maoya Road D 2.30
176 Singakkuliya - Kaliyawadana - Pannare Road D 12.40
177 Nabiriththankadawara - Thuthiripitiya Road C 5.80
178 Makandura - Udawela Road C 17.60
179 Yakwila - Eliwila Road C 7.70
180 Maholawa - Benawatta Road C 5.50
181 Udawelawatta - Galgammulla Road D 5.00
182 Dambadeniya - Labuyaya Road C 17.40
183 Maharagama - Horakele Road C 8.80
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
700
184 Paragammana - Horakele Road C 6.80
185 Yakwila - Wadumunnegedara Road C 8.10
186 Daraluwa - Waguruwela Road D 4.00
187 Daraluwa - Dikkele Road C 4.60
188 Weralugama - Kandanegedara Road C 7.10
189 Wadumunnegedara - Nawasigahawatta Road D 2.00
190 Kandanegedara - Waguruwela Road D 2.90
191 Welpalla - Hundirapola Road D 4.00
192 Eliwila - Lihiriyagama Road D 5.20
193 Government buildings access Road
(Pannala AGA Office to Pannala - Kurunegala Road) C 0.50
194 Government buildings access Road
(Pannala AGA Office to Pannala - Dankotuwa Road) C 0.18
195 Elabadagama - Hunuwila Road C 4.30
196 Bopitiya - Elabadagama Road C 10.40
197 Bopitiya - Mellawalana Road C 1.80
198 Maththegama - Dadampoththa Road C 3.30
199 Narangamuwa - Kelaniyamulla Road C 10.40
200 Bammanna - Haththiniya Road D 2.70
201 Nedalagamuwa - Yayamulla Road D 5.15
202 Pannala - Maoya Road C 1.10
203 Kawdumunna - Kelegedara Road D 3.20
204 Laima Junction to Kankaniyammulla Road C 9.20
205 Bandranayake Mawatha C 0.25
206 Metiyagane - Dangolla Road C 8.50
207 Nikaweratiya - Kuruwikulama Road C 14.40
208 Kumbukwewa - Pahalabalalla Road C 17.20
209 Pahalamawathagama - Kadigawa Road D 8.20
210 Ambale - Inginimitiya Road C 18.65
211 Nebadawa - Andigama Road C 1 1.20
212 Palugashandiya - Aluthgama Road C 8.50
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
701
213 Nebadawa - Thimbiriyawa Road C 4.00
214 Ambalayagoda Road C 0.89
215 Kadigawa - Magurankadawala Road D 10.00
216 Kandegedara - Hulugalla Road C 4.60
217 Dalukgolla - Diwulewa Road C 4.00
218 Polpithigama - Irudeniya Road C 18.55
219 Kiralabokkagama - Kambuwatawana Road C 5.60
220 Saliyagama - Herathgama Road C 2.15
221 Thalawa - Siyabalangamuwa Road C 3.20
222 Polpithigama - Hathigamuwa Road C 5.60
223 Melsiripura - Rambe Road C 10.00
224 Egodagama - Thalakolawewa Road C 8.30
225 Karanagollagama - Kumbukkadawala Road C 6.00
226 Wadupalayagama - Meegaswewa - Miriswatta Road D 1 1.25
227 Pansiyagama - Imihaminegama Road C 6.00
228 Dangollagama - Kalugalla Road C 12.00
229 Meegalewa - Hurigaswewa Road D 1.60
230 Amunukole - Siyambalangamuwa Road C 9.08
231 Medinnoruwa - Bongamuwa Road D 6.70
232 Meegalewa - Siyambalangamuwa Road D 7.30
233 Leekolawewa South Canal Road C 3.80
234 Wetakoluwewa - Meegalewa Road C 1 1.07
235 Meegalewa Town Road D 0.80
236 Inginimitiya - Naanneriya Road C 6.90
237 Rajanganaya - Naanneriya Road D 12.60
238 Mahagalkadawala - Galewewa Road C 24.00
239 Ihalagama - Muwanpelessa - Nahettikulama Road C 2.50
240 Kathnoruwa Junction to Reswehera Road D 5.00
241 Medagama - Thammenawa Junction Road C 2.50
242 Galgamuwa Jusewas Church Road D 4.00
243 Warawewa - Sandagala Road D 10.00
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
702
244 Perakumpura - Govijana Sewa Junction Road D 2.00
245 Ihalagiribawa - Orugala Road D 3.00
246 Giribawa Junction - Thammennawa Road D 5.00
247 Ambanpola - Ehatuwewa Road C 12.80
248 Amabnpola - Palugolla Road C 14.60
249 Dethawa - Kadahathagama Road C 4.04
250 Ambakolawewa - Mediyawa Road D 3.83
251 Galtenwatta - Belumgala Road D 3.58
252 Wathuwattegama - Mudiyannagama Road C 10.20
253 Thalangedara - Wagolla Road C 13.50
254 Ehatuwewa - Andarawewa Road C 14.40
255 Balalla - Weehenegama Road C 3.20
256 Maho - Nagollagama Road C 8.80
257 Dladagama - Kooriywa Road C 0.40
258 Daladagama - Kapuwatta Road C 0.40
259 Ella - Kadambawa Road C 13.70
260 Vijayaba Vidyalaya - Weliyaya Circular Road C 1.90
261 Konwewa - Angamugama Road C 6.30
262 Nagollagama - Karambe Road D 8.80
263 Yapahuwa - Galtenwewa Road C 10.40
264 Maho Hospital Junction - Hithokadawala - Mediyawa Road C 6.00
265 Maho Hospital Junction - Thisnampola - Thimbiriyagedara Road C 5.00
266 Digana - Hangilipola Road C 4.00
267 Walaswewa - Weehenegama Road D 2.40
268 Maspotha - Thisnampola Road C            4.20
269 Hanhamuna - Dampitiya Road C            8.79
270 Wedanda - Dikwehara Road D            2.80
271 Ambalawa - Damunugolla Road D            2.80
272 Wilgamdematawa Road D            2.80
273 Walpola - Hanhamuna Road C            4.60
274 Pellandeniya - Dikwehera Road C            7.60
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
703
275 Yahalegedara - Wanduressegama Road C            6.70
276 Ambalawa - Gondamana Road D            2.80
277 Pangolla - Bathalegoda Road C            3.80
278 Amabanpola - Balawattala Road C            7.50
279 Ussawa - Diddeniya Road C            3.80
280 Maiwala - Diddeniya Road D            6.06
281 Melsiripura - Millawana Road D            6.02
282 Gokarella - Kandulawa Road C            6.00
283 Pannala - Mukalanyaya Road C            7.20
284 Bakmeegolla - Kumbalanga Road D            3.40
285 Yakalla - Mukalanyaya Road C            5.80
286 Kiribamuna - Nelawa Road D            2.30
287 Kiribamuna - Aragama Road C            6.05
288 Melsiripura - Kumbukwewa Road C            9.00
289 Kubukgate - Karandagolla Road C           15.52
290 Kumbukwewa - Nikagolla Road D            3.20
291 Katupotha - Munamaldeniya Road C           15.75
292 Kolamunuoya - Mandapola Road C            5.50
293 Kotampitiya - Mawiela Road C            7.57
294 Magulagama - Mayakadawara Road D            4.90
295 Hunugama - Nagulmunna Road D            1.21
296 Kanogama - Kosdeniya Road D            8.50
297 Kanogama - Kandegedara - Galahitiyawa Road D            2.00
298 Diwulwewa - Galadenigama Road D            9.10
299 Girathalana - Akurana Road D            8.38
300 Ganewatta - Nagollagama Road C           17.80
301 Nabiriththanwewa - Mukalanyaya Road C           16.60
302 Manapaya - Bannekgama Road C            9.13
303 Nelawa - Seeradunna Road D            2.80
304 Kanawa- Korakahawa Road C            4.10
305 Makulwewa - Hunupola Road C            3.30
   Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
704
306 Arankele - Doluwa Road D            4.61
307 Wariyapola - Amunugama Road C           13.60
308 Malwana - Ginimanna Road C            6.40
309 Awulegama - Bamunugedara Road D            4.00
310 Minuwangete - Malagane Road C            8.00
311 Padeniya - Kobeigane Road C           11.20
312 Kobeigane - Boraluwewa - Ujekele Road
(Dirananda Mawatha) D           15.50
313 Kattapitiya - Mandapola Road C            2.16
314 Kattapitiya - Iswetiya Road D            5.00
315 Kobeigane - Pannawa - Ihalalolanwewa Road D            6.00
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)
Puttlam District
01 Nainamadama - Kolinjadiya Road C           7.30
02 Wennappuwa - Edanda Road C           2.64
03 Walikkala - Thambarawila Road C           1.76
04 Waikkala - Nanjundankaraya Road C           1.76
05 Nanjundankaraya - Kulamulla Road C           1.76
06 Thummodara - Lunuwila - Bolawatta Road C         10.80
07 Dematapitiya - Sirigampala Road C           3.04
08 Haldanduwana - Dummaladeniya Road C           5.20
09 Dummaladeniya dispensary Road C           1.07
10 Dummaladeniya Depot Road C           1.07
1 1 Wennappuwa  Helan Mawatha C           1.25
12 Father Rex Dias Mawatha C           1.10
13 Wennappuwa Thomes Fernando Road C           1.10
14 Wennappuwa Prabbroniya Road C           1.00
   Index No. Road Name    Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
705
15 Wennappuwa - Kadawatha Road C           0.95
16 Wennappuwa - Meples Road C           0.97
17 Waikkala Old Road C           1.58
18 Sindathriya Sidu Kumari Vidyala Mawatha C           0.87
19 Bandirippuwa - Kirimetiyana Road C           1.60
20 Lunuwila - Bothalegama Road C           2.80
21 Nainamadama - Boralessa Road C           1.50
22 Ulhitiyawa Cemetery Road D           0.72
23 Gonawila Road D           1.76
24 Boralessa - Keeragara Road D           2.32
25 Approach Road to Lunuwila Railway Station D           0.30
26 Approach Road to Bolawatta Railway Station D           0.30
27 From Sirigampala Church via Shiner Junction St. Anne’s Road D           1.70
28 Sirigampala - Bothalegama Road D           1.30
29 St. Anne’s Nursery Road D           1.00
30 Kirimetiyana - Hundirapola Road C           7.20
31 Kahatawila - Koswatta Road C           2.88
32 Kirimetiyana - Kahatawila Road C           4.00
33 Kirimetiyana - Wekada Road C           7.52
34 Kirimetiyana - Thulawala Road C           3.20
35 Dankotuwa - Katukenda Road C           1.20
36 Mawathagama - Lihiriyagama Road C           7.88
37 Haldanduwana - Kahatawila Road C           2.88
38 Haldanduwana - Danwala Road C           2.00
39 Kirimetiyana Pradeshiya Sabha Road C           1.20
40 Dummalakotuwa - Dankotuwa Road C           1.20
41 Atiywala - Dummalakotuwa Road C           1.90
42 Wekada - Galwaka Road C           3.60
43 Kirimetiyana - Medamukalana Road D           1.68
44 Mellawa - Welameda Road D           0.40
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
706
45 Thambarawila - Godella bakery Road D           1.12
46 Atiyawala - Mohottimulla Road D           3.20
47 Kudawila - Dikwela Road D           2.56
48 Atiyawala - Morukkuliya Road D           4.80
49 Atiyawala Temple Road D           2.40
50 Mellawa - Pothuwatawana Road D           3.36
51 Ihalakottaramulla - Narawila Road C           4.80
52 Thabbowa - Pilakatumulla Road C           2.60
53 Mawila - Madangaha Road C           2.70
54 Nattandiya - Muttibendiwela Road C           7.20
55 Weerahena - Mawila Road C           2.00
56 Thabbowa - Koswatta - Bothalegama Road C           9.10
57 Ihalakottaramulla - Koswatta Road C           3.20
58 Ihalakottaramulla - Morakele Road (Kottaramulla Alhira Road) C           1.60
59 Thuthuripitiya - Wandurambe Road C           6.00
60 Ihalakatuneriya - Mawila Road C           5.30
61 Mudukatuwa - Mawila Road C           3.50
62 Mudukatuwa Beach Road C           1.80
63 Mudukatuwa Zoysarama Road C           1.30
64 Mudukatuwa Keenakelewatta Road C           1.90
65 Godawela Junction to Keenakelewatta Road C           2.20
66 Mudukatuwa Sribhodi Mawatha C           1.15
67 Narawila - Kuddatiyawa - Yakdessawa Road D           4.70
68 Approach Road to Nattandiya Railway Station D           0.47
69 Badurawa - Maningala Road D           4.30
70 Meegahawela Road D           2.60
71 Paluwelgala - Koswatta Road D           2.40
72 Vajirawansa Thero Mawatha D           2.30
73 Kuddatiyawa - Maningala Road D           1.30
74 Kachchirawa - Thunsiya Watta Road D           2.60
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
707
75 Mudukatuwa Fathima Church Road D           2.10
76 Mudukatuwa Roman Park Road D           1.30
77 Marawila Church Road C           1.60
78 Mahawewa - Thoduwawa Road C           7.10
79 Halpanwila - Kadaima Road C           2.50
80 Mahawewa - Peniheliyagama Road C           6.20
81 Walahapitya - Halpanwila Road C           3.50
82 Walahapitiya - Wandurambe Road C           9.00
83 Fernando Road C           1.20
84 Marada St. Piyas Mawatha C           2.90
85 Mattakotuwa Sea Street D           0.60
86 Ihala Mahawewa Road D           2.80
87 Marawila 1
st Cross Street D           0.37
88 Marawila - Thalwila Road D           1.69
89 Walahapitiya - Deniya Road D           2.80
90 Walahapitiya - Pilakatumulla Road D           1.20
91 Ihala Walahapitiya - Egodagoda Road D           2.90
92 Yatakalana - Wathugahamulla Road D           2.50
93 Mahawewa - Thissa Mawatha D           1.20
94 Mahawewa - Weehena Road D           1.50
95 Iranawila - Samindugama Circular Road D           3.00
96 Ranaviru Thisera Mawatha D           2.20
97 Panangoda - Sagaragama Road D           1.30
98 Yodaela - Mahagama Road C           3.40
99 Dummalasuriya - Panirendawa Road C           7.20
100 Palubingiriya - Nankadawara Road C           3.20
101 Madampe - Mugunuwatawana - Galmuruwa Road C         10.50
102 Kokkawila - Manakkulama Road C           7.80
103 Kudirippuwa - Kachchakaduwa Road C           2.80
104 Pothuwila - Sembukattiya Road C           5.25
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
708
105 Palubingirya - Rathmalagara Road C           2.00
106 Pambala dividing Road C           2.50
107 Galmuruwa - Pallekele Road C           1.55
108 Madampe - Karukkuwa Road C           0.74
109 Pitawalayagama - Walahena Road C           1.78
110 Manakkulama - Sembukattiya Road C           3.20
1 1 1 Irattakulama - Gamameda Road C           0.80
112 Road from Thaniyavallaba Mawatha to Sandrick Silva Mawatha C           0.75
113 Road from Senanayake MMV to Sri Lanka timber Mill (Circular Road) C           1.40
114 Irattakulama Church Road C           0.85
115 Thambagalla - Sembukattiya - Horakele Dewala Road C           2.45
116 Uraliya - Heenagara Road D           2.40
117 Sawarana - Ilippadeniya - Malwatta Road C           5.20
118 Koraya Road C           0.58
119 Pepoles Bank Road C           0.27
120 Sinhapura Road C           0.84
121 Vivers Road C           1.15
122 Jetty Street C           0.44
123 Bridge Street C           0.55
124 Alutwatta Road C           1.24
125 Jusewas Road C           1.20
126 Bazar Road C           0.45
127 Manuwangama - Arigama - Mugunuwatawana Road C           9.18
128 Maradankulama Road D           1.60
129 Wadiya Road D           0.40
130 Chilaw Sea Street D           1.37
131 Chilaw Prison Road D           0.50
132 Ambakandawila - Welihena Road D           2.00
133 Approach Road to Chilaw Government Buildings D           0.80
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
709
134 Ilippadeniya - Karawita Road D           1.56
135 Karawita - Wekanda - Dematapitiya Road D           2.40
136 Wilaththawa - Mandalana Road D           2.40
137 Wattakkalliya Road D           2.00
138 Mid Road from Kurunegala - Chilaw Road 6
th Mile Post D           3.00
139 Ariyagama - Lakshmiwatta Road D           7.00
140 Thiththakade - Thisogama - Udayandaluwa Road D           4.00
141 Baththuluoya - Wilpotha - Dewala Junction Road C         15.06
142 Arachchikattuwa - Adippala - Ihalakolaeliya Road C           8.16
143 Nalladarankattuwa - Aththangane Road C           4.80
144 Anawilundawa - Aththangane Road C         11.50
145 Anawilundawa Road D           2.00
146 Maiyawa Road D           2.00
147 Anawilundawa - Maiyawa Road D           0.60
148 Bangadeniya - Karukupane Road D           5.00
149 Adippala Welankele - Aththanganaya Road D           6.00
150 Ambakele - Anawilundawa Road D           0.48
151 Mandalana - Kumbukkadawala Road D           3.20
152 Wijayakatupotha - Wilpotha Road D           6.00
153 Katupotha - Wilpotha Road D           4.00
154 Suruwila - Muthupanthiya  via Udappuwa Road D         10.00
155 Sengaloya - Adippala Road D           4.00
156 Sengaloya - Helambawatawana Road D           1.50
157 Rajakadaluwa - Paniadikulama Road D           2.80
158 Karukuliya Road D           1.60
159 Wilaththawa - Mandalana Road D           4.50
160 Bangadeniya - Karukkuliya Road D           3.00
161 Bangadeniya - Kelagama Road D           6.00
162 Weerakumandaluwa - Gamkele Road D           3.00
163 Rajakadaluwa - Karukkuliya Road D           1.50
Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
710
164 Arachchikattuwa - Thekkahena Road D           1.50
165 Kottapitiya - Kusala Road D           2.50
166 Kumarakattuwa - Eliwitiya Road D           6.00
167 Bangadeniya - Mukkandaluwa Road D           4.00
168 Wairankattuwa Road D           3.00
169 Madurankuliya - Mahakumbukkadawala - Andigama Road C         12.80
170 Madurankuliya - Kiuwla Road C         11.00
171 Wijayakatupotha - Agunawila Road C           4.00
172 Tharavilluwa Junction - Wilpotha Road C           7.00
173 Pulichchikulama - Udappuwa Road C           4.70
174 Mangalaeliya - Sinnapaduwa Road C           7.88
175 Pubudugama - Kandathoduwawa Road C           7.23
176 Madurankuliya - Mukkuthoduwawa Road C           7.78
177 Nawankulama - Periyakadawala Road D           3.95
178 Kottanthiew - Watawana Road D           1.80
179 Akkarawilluwa Main Road D           6.00
180 Kandalaya Junction to Periyapadu Road D           3.70
181 Mukkuthoduwawa - Kandathoduwawa Road D           5.01
182 Kurinchampitiya - Kandakuliya Road C           4.80
183 Kandakuda - Palliwasalthurei Road C           6.00
184 Norochchole - Alankuda Road C           1.80
185 Thigali - Eththale Road C           6.30
186 Palakuda - Thalawila Road C           4.00
187 Norochchole - Ilanthadiya Road C           4.60
188 Kalpiti - Anawasal Road D           1.60
189 Kalpiti - Wannimundalama Road D           1.00
190 Karamba - Puladivayal Road D           1.50
191 Pulachchena Internal Road D           1.00
192 Mampuriya Beach Road D           2.00
  Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
711
193 Uswewa - Thammennawatiya Road C           4.02
194 Thabbowa outer Circular Road C           7.50
195 Aluthgama - Ihalapuliyankulama Road C           7.92
196 Nawagattegama - Aluthgama Road C         17.50
197 Mullegama Junction to Inginimitiya Road D           2.40
198 Nawagattegama - Konkadawala Road D           5.20
199 Murukkuwatawana - Neliwewa Road D           8.90
200 10 Mile Post - Muriyakulama Road D           4.50
201 7 Mile Post - Mailankulama - Thabbowa Road C         13.30
202 Saliyahandiya - Neelabemma Road D         15.73
203 Karuwalagaswewa 9
th post - Weerapura School Road C           5.00
204 Thabbowa Link Road D           3.30
205 Ihalapuliyankulama - Moonamalgaswewa Road D           4.92
206 Narioya - Moragahawewa Road D           7.00
207 Thabbowa Service Road D           0.46
208 Kumbukwewa - Galawewa Road D           5.26
209 Anamaduwa - Gamudawa Road C           1.60
210 Darmapala School - Sangattikulama Road C           8.00
211 Konkadawala - Pahalagama Road C           1.90
212 Anamaduwa - Thattewa Road D           6.80
213 Kumaragama Junction to Wadigamangawa Road D           3.75
214 Kudawewa - Lakshimiyawa Road D           1.00
215 Siyambalagashena - Thattewa Road D           5.20
216 Thonigala - Uriyawa Road D           7.00
217 Approach Road to Mahauswewa D           4.80
218 Anawillu - Karathiv Road C           5.58
219 Karadipuwal - Ambalam Road D           2.25
220 Arachchiwillu Reservation Road C           1.60
221 Puttlam Government Headquarters Road C           1.10
222 Puttlam outer Circular Road C           1.68
      Index No. Road Name Class Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
712
223 Puttlam Survey Office Road C           0.35
224 3 rd Mile Post to Asirigama Road C           4.00
225 Nagawilluwa - Kaladiya Road C         12.46
226 Kaladiya - Sinhapura - Attawilluwa Road C           6.00
227 Periyanagawillu - Karathiv Road D           5.95
228 Wanathawillu - Karathiv Road D           7.70
229 Ponparippu - Karuwalakuda Road D           2.60
230 Bandaranayakepura - Katupuliyankulama Road D           2.00
231 Wijayapura 11 Mile Post Road D           2.00
232 Saliyapura - Malwila Road D           2.00
233 Eluwankulama - Aruwakkaru Road D           2.00
234 Karathiv - Milroy Road D           2.00
235 Road from Karathiv Muslim School to Erikalamvilluwa Temple D           2.00
236 Manalkandu Reservation Road D           2.50
237 Puttlam Lagoon Road D           3.00
238 Abayarama St. Maries Spill Road D           2.30
239 Thiladiya - Pudikudiruppu Road D           4.60
240 Ibanbathutha - Kanganikulama Road D           4.50
241 Velusumana Bogas Handiya - 9 Bauma Road D           7.00
242 Andigama - Nebadewa Road C           6.40
243 Kottukachchiya - Mahakumbukkadawala Road C         12.60
244 Periyamaduwa - Madawakkulama Road C           6.50
245 Pallama - Wathupola Road D           3.20
246 Pallama - Kolaeliya Road D           3.00
247 Serukele - Weherakele Road D           4.00
248 Wendakaduwa - Ambakele Road D           2.00
249 Baranankattuwa - Mahakumbukkadawala Road D           5.00
250 Agunawila - Mahakumbukkadawala Road D         13.00
08-81
   Index No. Road Name     Class        Total Length (Km)

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
713
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money Order,
Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. Post Office
- Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in any week
where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in Schedule
of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be
addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months so
as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'07
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.08.2015
714
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if
publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
AUGUST 07.08.2015 Friday — 24.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
14.08.2015 Friday –– 30.07.2015 Thursday 12 noon
21.08.1015 Friday –– 07.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
28.08.2015 Friday –– 14.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 04.09.2015 Friday — 21.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
11.09.2015 Friday –– 28.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
18.09.2015 Friday –– 04.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
25.09.2015 Friday –– 11.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 02.10.2015 Friday — 18.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
09.10.2015 Friday –– 25.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
16.10.1015 Friday –– 02.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
23.10.2015 Friday –– 09.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.10.2015 Friday –– 16.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.