

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1141
1141
wxl 1"662 - 2010 cQ,s ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'07'09
No. 1,662 – FRIDAY , JULY 09, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1144
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1145
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th July, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd July,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,661 of 02.07.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1142
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1143
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1144
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called for in terms of Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) the Recruitment
for the Post of Quazis
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply :–
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized
by the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a holder of the Al-Alim Certificate issued by the Departm ent of
Education or an Attorney-at-law or a holder of other similar professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has he ld office in
staff grade.
Persons currently holding a permanent post in the public service shall not be eligible to apply. Applicants should be married
persons of over 40 years of age and of good character and standing in the community and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating
to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of
support service (clerical, assessors, typing, postal).
Application forms can be obtained from the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, should be sent to reach me on or before
09th August, 2010.
M. P. D
E SILV A,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdorp, Colombo 12,
23rd June, 2010.
01. Colombo (West) - Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce
Act (Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Colombo for Dehiwala, Mt. Lavinia,
Ratmalana, Nugegoda, Pepiliyana, Maharagama, Pannipitiya, Homagama, Polgassowita, Ingiriya,
Rajagiriya, Battaramulla and Athurugiriya areas.
02. Udapalatha (Gampola) - Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce
Act (Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Gampola.
03. Nawalapitiya - Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce
Act (Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi in the Revenue Division of Udabulathgamuwa in Kandy District
and Hapugasthalawa Village in Nuwara -Eliya District.
04. Addalachchenai - Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim Marriages and Divorce
Act (Chapter 115) for the post of Quazi in the A. G. A’s Division of Addalachchenai in Ampara District.
07-305

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1145
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 2 Grade II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service - 2010
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service will be held in Colombo in October,
2010. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media and the candidates will not be permitted to change the m edium
applied for on a later date.
The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1070/13-1999 dated 11th March, 1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated below
for the convenience of the applicants.
An officer may appear for this  Efficiency Bar examination for the prescribed subjects in one instance or in different instances.
(A) Syllabus :—
 Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
(01) General Management and Establishment Work Regulations in the Government 100 1 1/2  hours
Establishments Code with special reference to Chapters  i, ii, iii, iv, v, vii, viii, ix,
xii, xiii, xiv, xxiv, xxviii, xxx and xxxi
(02) Financial Regulations With special reference to 100 1 1/2  hours
Chapters  i, ii, v, viii, xii and xiv in Part I  of the Government Financial
Regulations
(03) Education Law, Candidates’ knowledge expected relating 100 2 hours
to the following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament
(i) Education Act, No. 31 of 1939 and regulations framed thereunder
(ii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special Provisions) Act, No. 5 of 1960
(iii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 8 of 1961
(iv) Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968, amended by Public Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act ,No. 65 of 1981
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985
(vii) Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986
(viii) National Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991
(ix) National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of 1997
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the 13th Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights.
(xi) Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to Education.
P .S.- Applicants should obtain at least 40% marks for each subject for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
03. Language medium of the examination:—
(i) Applicants may answer the papers in Official Language or in the National Language.
(ii) Applicants may answer the papers in the language medium of the competitive examination they appeared for joining the
Public Service. Those who joined Public Service without appearing for a Competitive Examination may answer the papers
in the language medium of the examination they were qualified to join the Public Service.
04. If it is revealed that any candidate had appeared for the examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to appear his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
05. Application should be prepared in conformity to the following specimen form. Applications should be prepared by
including all items in the first page and the relevant information should be filled in applicant’s own handwriting. Application s which do
not conform with the Specimen Application and those with incomplete information will be rejected without any intimation. It wil l be
useful to keep a photocopy of the application with the applicant and the applicant should verify whether the completed applicat ion is
in conformity with the specimen form given in the examination notification as otherwise the application will be rejected. In preparing the

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1146
application the name of the examination mentioned at the top of the application should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala in the
Sinhala applications and in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
06. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and Applicants are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination.
07. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of  Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be reached on or before 06th August, 2010. Any
application received after this date will be rejected. The words “Efficiency Bar Examination - Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 2-II”
should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
08. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the applicants the Commissioner General of Examinations will publish a
newspaper advertisement to that effect. In the event of any applicant not receiving his admission card even 2 or 3 days after t he
publication of the above advertisement he should promptly inform the Department of Examinations as indicated in the advertiseme nt. It
will be more useful if you forward your request to the Department of Examinations along with a certified copy of the application and the
receipt for payment of fees kept with you and a fax number to send the admission cards when the address is outside Colombo.
09. Complaints from applicants who do not confirm to the requirements of paragraph No. 08 above will not be entertained.
10. Applicants should submit their admission card with the signature attested to the Supervisor of the  Examination hall on the
date of the examination;
11. It is responsibility of the applicants to submit evidence to prove their identity at the Examination hall and for this purp ose
any one of the following documents will be valid :–
I. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons,
II. A valid Passport.
12. The issue of an admission card to an applicant should not be treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the
requirements to appear for the examination.
13. It has been decided to charge examination fees from the applicants who appear for this examination on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be charged from Applicants appearing for the first time for the whole examination or for part of the
examination.
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs. 150.00
Fee for one subject Rs. 50.00
A margin of the receipt obtained for payment of the fee at any Divisional Secretary’s offices in the island to the credit of
Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be firmly affixed at the place provided for same in the
application. (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant will be useful)
SUNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
07th June, 2010.
APPLICATION
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION IN CLASS 2 GRADE II OF SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATORS’ SERVICE - 2010
Applications should be forwarded through Head of Institution by registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left hand corner of envelope)
Language medium of the examination Si nhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1147
01. ( a) Name with initials at end :——————,
(In English capital letters) Ex. :-  SILV A, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials : ——————,
(In English capital letters)
02. Date of birth :
Year                          Month                   Date
03. (i) Designation : ————————,
(ii) Name and address of NCOE/TC Teacher Centre at which the applicant is serving (Admission  Card will be sent to this
address) :————————,
04. Private address (In English capital letters) : ——————,
05. Please indicate clearly the subject number and subjects appearing as indicated under ( A)  in Para 2 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
06. Whether you have appeared for the complete examination or part of the examination earlier and so indicate the subjects, year
appeared and the medium :
Subject Year Medium Index No.
07. Examination fees paid :
Fix the receipt here after paying the examination fees.
Keeping a photocopy with the applicant will be useful.
08. I hereby declare that the above information are true and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language medium
indicated in Para. 03 of the Gazette Notification. I will abide by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General of
Examinations relating to conducting this examination.
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date: —————
Commissioner General of Examinations
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
Forwarded,
I certify that this applicant is eligible to sit  this examination and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under Para. 03 of Gazette Notification.
I also certify that the applicant has paid the prescribed examination fees and that he has fixed the receipt.
———————,
Signature and Designature of President NCOE/Head T.C.
Date :—————
07-191

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1148
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2011
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre-Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility : Every applicant should –
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as on 01.01.2011 ;
2.3.2 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/Christianity should not be more than 30 years of age as on 01.01.2011;
2.3.3 Buddhist Monks/Buddhist Nuns who apply for the Course of Buddhism should not be more than 27 years of age as
on 01.01.2011 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009  (Two passes for Sri Pada
National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.12 and applicants for Christianity/
Chatholicism course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.9 ).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core subjects at the first sitting). Core
subjects - (i) Religion, (ii) First Language, (iii) English, (iv) Mathematics, (v) Aesthetic subjects (Art, Dancing, Music,
Drama and Theatre/Literature (Sinhala, Tamil, English, Arabic), (vi) Science and Technology, (vii) Social Studies and History,
(viii) Technical subjects (Agriculture, Commerce and Account, Handy craft)).
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. (Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above. If Special qualifications have not been Especially mentioned;
only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1 and 3.2 will be considered).
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) will be sufficient
if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G .C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining the same
mark in proficiency test by two or more applicants, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will
be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a distinction pass, 03 marks for a very good pass, 02 marks
for a credit pass and 01 mark for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the
total number of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
3.4.3 Although the Courses on  Information Communcation Technology and Western Music are conducted in the English
Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared for G.C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil or English
Medium concerning the number of vacancies existing in Sinhala and Tamil Medium Schools.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1149
3.5 Effective date of all the Educational/V ocational certificates should be on or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :
4.1 Course No. 01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2009 (Two passes including
Sinhala/Tamil Language for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.1.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil
Language and two other subjects.
Note.– The student will be selected for primary course in National Colleges of Education in year 2013, from those
who have credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, English Language in G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala)
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 in the following subjects :  Physics,
Chemistry and Biology (Two passes including biology for Sri Pada National College of Education);
and
4.2.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics 32 or Mathematics 42
Note:  Science (English) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and apeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium.
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2009  in the following subjects :
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes in one of the
following subjects including Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher Mathematics for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ;
and
4.3.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science 34.
Note.–  Mathematics  (English) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and apeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium.
4.4 Course No. 04 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
Physical Education (Tamil)
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 ;
and

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1150
4.4.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical Education
and Mathematics ;
and
4.4.3 Achievements /performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of 75
marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single —— 1 25
2 International Level single —— 2 24
3 International Level single —— 3 23
4 International Level —— team 1 22
5 International Level —— team 2 21
6 International Level —— team 3 20
7 International Level single team —— 19
  Representation
8 National Level single —— 1 18
9 National Level single —— 2 17
10 National Level single —— 3 16
11 National Level —— team 1 15
12 National Level —— team 2 14
13 National Level —— team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single —— 1 12
15 Provincial Level single —— 2 11
16 Provincial Level single —— 3 10
17 Provincial Level —— team 1 09
18 Provincial Level —— team 2 08
19 Provincial Level —— team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major —— —— —— 06
/Warrant Officer 1
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide —— —— —— 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant —— —— —— 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single —— 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / —— team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / —— team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / —— team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.4.4 Following marks will be awarded for passes obtained for the Health and Physical Education at G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
A Pass  -  05
B Pass  -  03
       C Pass  - 02
Note:
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International).–  Participation at International Competitions representing
Sri Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through
Ministry of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered sports Associations (Participation in International
Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered).

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1151
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions .– National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council.
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council.
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council.
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education.
(iii) 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in “A” Grade competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order.
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid.
Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05 - English
4.5.1 Passed any Three Subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2009 including English Language (Not General
English) with credit pass for English Language/Ordinary pass in English Literature and Six core subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
 or
4.5.2 Passed any Three Subjects in one sitting at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 and three passes including
English at London G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 and credit pass in English Language/Ordinary pass
in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination/London G . C. E. (O/L) examination having passed six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics ;
or
4.5.3 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009  and passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a very good pass in English Language/
Credit pass in English Literature.
Note :
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.5.1 and 4.5.2 they do not need to sit for the proficiency test. Their
qualifications should be proved at the interview.
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.5.3 will be selected through the Selection Test.
4.6 Course No. 06 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests/Nuns and the Laity can apply for the Course of Buddhism. All requirements should have been
completed in Year 2009 or before. (Laity candidates should have completed all educational qualifications in their laity
name in Year 2009 or before).
4.6.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2009 with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala.
4.6.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary examination (only for Buddhist Priests/Nuns).
4.6.3 Passed Bauddha Dharmacharya Examination.
4.6.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination.
4.6.5 Passed  G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism and
Mathematics passed Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination in six core subjects with Sinhala Language,
Mathematics and Tripitaka Dharma.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1152
Note :
(i) Priority order in selection –
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.3, 4. 6. 4 and 4.6. 5
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and 4.6.5
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.3 and 4.6.5
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.4 and 4.6.5
(e) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1 and 4.6.5
4.7 Course No. 07 - Hinduism
4.7.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the  following subjects. – Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and
Sanskrit in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 ;
4.7.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate ;
4.7.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.7.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.7.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having 4.7.1 and all other certificates ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4, 4.7.5 and one certificate out of other two ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.5 and one certificate out of other three ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1., 4.7.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2009 or earlier.
4.8 Course No. 08- Islam
4.8.1 Three passes including one of the following subjects - Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic in the G. C. E.
(A/L) examination held in Year 2009.
4.8.2 Passed Al-Alim Examination (Both Part 1 and Part 2) ;
4.8.3 Having Moulavi Certificate and passed Part 1 in Al-Alim examination,
4.8.4 Having Moulavi Certificate,
4.8.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having 4.8.1, 4.8.5 and all other certificates indicated above.
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.3, 4.8.4. and 4.8.5
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.4 and 4.8.5
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1 and 4.8.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2009 or earlier.
4.9 Course No. 09 - Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala)
                          Catholicism/Christianity (Tamil)
4.9.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 and passes in six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
Ordinary pass for Christianity in G. C. E. (A/L) examination or Credit pass for Catholicism/Christianity in
G. C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
The certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics to be a teacher of Catholicism and the certificate of National
Christian Council for Christians to be a teacher of Christianity.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1153
4.9.2 Selection of Catholicism candidates will be made by giving priority in the order of following qualifications :
4.9.2.1 Four year course certificate on Theology (BTH) ;
or
4.9.2.2 Christian Philosophy certificate conducted by the National Seminary ;
or
4.9.2.3 Three year religious education course certificate in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya ;
or
4.9.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that the candidate has successfully
completed the study of the religious education and training course (Novitiate) to become a member
of the clergy ;
or
4.9.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya examination conducted by the National Catechetical Centre
Namely Dharmacharya Hons/Dahamguru 3 ;
or
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2) or Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1) ;
or
4.9.2.6 Passed Christianity in G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
4.9.3 Selection of candidates for Christianity will be made according to the qualifications indicated in the following
order :
4.9.3.1 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Lanka Theological College, Pilimathalawa.
4.9.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge conducted by National Christianity
Council.
Note.– (i) To select 90% from all admissions, Catholic candidates qualified under 4.9.1 will be selected on the
serial order shown under 4.9.2 When 90% of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian candidates
will be selected for such vacancies.
(ii) 10% of the total number of admissions will be selected from among Christian candidates qualified under
4.9.1 according to the serial order shown under 4.9.3. If 10% Christian candidates have not applied,
Catholic candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If the
required percentage (40%) of vacancies cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from Laity
applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in 2009  are not available,
those (clergy) who have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination immediately preceding the Years 2008,
2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 will be selected considering the closest year to 2009. If 40% of the Clergy
candidates have not applied layman candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
4.10 Course No. 10 - Special Education (Sinhala)
                           Special Education (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 ;
and
4.10.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six  core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
Note : The applicants of this course are considered to appoint as techers to teach those of special educational
needs such as visually-impairments, hearing-impairments, multi-impairments, austism, learning difficulties
and intellectual deficiencies, Hence, only those who agree to service in the classrooms where the impaired
children learn, should apply.
4.11 Course No. 11 - Agriculture and Food Technology (Sinhala)
                         Agriculture and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.11.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009  with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry ;
or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1154
4.11.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture/Agricultural Technology/Bio - Resource Technology / Food
Technology at  G. C. E. (A/L) examination in year 2009 ;
and
4.11.3 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit passes for Mathematics
and Science.
Note : Priority will be given to the Applicants qualified under 4.11.1
In admission of students in year 2013, for Agriculture and Food Technology Course,
1. Compulsory to obtain credit passes for Agriculture/Agriculture and Food Technology, Mathematics and
Science at G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
2. Priority will be given to those who have passed Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry at G . C. E. (A/L) and a
certificate for successfully completing an Agriculture Course for one year or more in a recognized Government
Agricultural Institute.
4.12 Course No. 12- Technical Studies (Sinhala)
                         Technical Studies  (Tamil)
4.12.1 Design and Technology :
4.12.1.1 Passed three subjects including one of the following components in Hard Technology at G . C. E. (A/L)
examination in Year 2009.
(i) Civil Technology,
(ii) Mechanical Technology,
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology ;
or
4.12.1.2 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 ;
and
4.12.1.3 Passed 6 core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language,
and one subject out of the following subjects. Construction Technology//Mechanical Technology//
Electric and Electronic Technology.
4.12.2 Crafts and Arts :
4.12.2.1 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 ;
and
4.12.2.2 Passed six core subjects at G . C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Craft and Art ;
and
4.12.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is relevant to the
subject area, conducted by a Government approved Technical College/National Apprentice Board/V ocational
Training Authority/Textile Industries Department/Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion
Department/Other Institutions governed by Central/Provincial Ministries.
Note.– (i) Priority Order of selection –
  Design and Technology :
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.1.1 and 4.12.1.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.1.2, 4.12.1.3 and 4.12.3
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are   not available, the applicants who have
passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2008 and 2007 will be considered as per (a) and (b)
mentioned in this Gazette notification.
Craft and Art :
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.2.1, 4.12.2.2 and 4.12.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.12.2.1 and 4.12.2.2

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1155
(i) If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) is not available, the applicants who have passed
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2008 and 2007 will be considered as per (a). If further vacancies
are available the applicant who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2009, 2008 and 2007
as per (b) will be considered.
(ii) In the application, under Selection 16.1 it must be clearly indicate the applying  field of the course
whether the course as Design and Technology or Crafts and Art.
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the
applications.
4.13 Course No. 13 – Art (Tamil)
4.13.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009  including Art ;
and
4.13.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including  Tamil Language, Mathematics and Art.
4.13.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Art/Art and Sculpture at G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2009.
4.14 Course No. 14 – Dance  (Bharatha)
4.14.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 including Bharatha Natyam. (Two subjects
including Bharatha Natyam for Sri Pada National College of Education).
4.14.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Bharatha
Natyam.
4.14.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Bharatha Natyam in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2009.
Note.– If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
held in Year 2009 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Bharatha Natyam in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination.
4.15 Course No. 15 – Music  (Carnatic)
4.15.1 Passed any three subjects including Carnatic Music at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 (Two passes
including Carnatic music for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.15.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic Music.
4.15.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Carnatic Music in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2009.
Note.– (I) If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National
College of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who have passed G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination held in Year 2009 with two subject in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Carnatic music at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.16 Course No. 16 – Western Music  (English)
4.16.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 including Western Music  ; and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and, with a Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary pass for English Literature ; or

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1156
4.16.2 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 ; and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit pass in English language or an ordinary pass in English Literature. ; and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the Colleges of
Education Board. ; or
Passed Western Music at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination as an additional subject.
Note : (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical test conducted for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.16.1.
4.17 Course No. 17 – Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
4.17.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2009 including Drama and Theatre ; and
4.17.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Drama and
Theatre/Music or Dance ;
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Drama and Theatre at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2009 ;
Note.– Priority will be given to the Applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
In case of sufficient applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G. C. E. (O/L) examination are not available
those who have passed Music/Art/Dance at G . C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered.
4.18 Course No. 18 – Information Communication Technology (English) :
4.18.1 Passed in any three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 (Two subjects for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ; and
4.18.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a Credit pass for
English language/an ordinary pass for English Literature and Credit pass for Mathematics.
Note : (i) Applicants who apply for this Course should sit for the Selection Test.
(ii) This test paper is an objective type of 1-1/2 hour question paper.
This test measures competency of the candidate in order to the basic concept of mathematical necessary to
follow the Information communication Technology.
(iii) Applicants shall sit for the Selection Test in Sinhala, Tamil or English medium of study.
(iv) Indicate the preferred medium under 1.0 para. of the application as S/T/E.
4.19 Course No. 19 – First Language  (Sinhala) :
4.19.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year  2009 in three subjects including a credit pass for Sinhala subject.
(Two passes including Sinhala for Sri Pada National College of Education, priority will be given to these who have
a Credit pass for Sinhala Language at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination ; and
4.19.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass in Sinhala Language.
4.20 Course No. 20 – First Language  (Tamil) :
4.20.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 in three subjects including a Credit pass for Tamil subject. (Two
passes including Tamil for Sri Pada National College of Education, Priority will be given to those who have a Credit
pass for Tamil Language at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination ; and
4.20.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass in Tamil language.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1157
4.21 Course No. 21 – Second National Language  (Sinhala) :
4.21.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala.  ; and
4.21.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued by the Official
Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.22 Course No. 22 - Second National Language (Tamil)
4.22.1 Passed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;  and
4.22.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Sinhala issued by the Official
Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.23 Course No. 23 - Home Economics (Tamil) :
4.23.1 Passed three subjects including Home Economics at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2009 ; and
4.23.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with Tamil language, Mathematics and a Credit pass for
science.
4.24 Course No. 24 - Social Science (Tamil) :
4.24.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2009 including one subject out of History, Political
Science and Geography. (Two passes in above subjects for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.24.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language and Mathematics and with a Credit
pass for Social Science and History.
4.25 Course No. 25 - Business and Accounting (Sinhala) :
Business and Accounting (Tamil)
4.25.1 Three passed in one sitting including Accounting and Business Studies at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2009 ;
and
4.25.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a Credit pass in Business and Accounting/Entrepreneurship
Studies/Mathematics and with a Credit pass for English Language or an Ordinary pass for English Literature.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each course will be
conducted and the respective number of the NCoE are given below :–
(Refer the chart carefully and identity the number of your course correctly before filling in the appilcation form. Your applic ation
will be computerized referring to your Course Number. Applications that are filled incorrectly will be rejected. No alteration is
permitted after your application is sent to the Branch of National Colleges of Education, Ministry of Education.)
(i) Column - Course Number ;
(ii) Column - Course Name ;
(iii) Column - NCoEEs where Sinhala medium courses are conducted ;
(iv) Column - NCoEEs where Tamil medium courses are conducted ;
(v) Column - NCoEEs where English medium courses are conducted.
(The numbers of the National College of Education are given within brackets.)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1158
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
(1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(7) Sri Pada (7) Sri Pada
01 Primary Education (11) Pulathisipura (8) Addalaichenai
(14) Ruhuna (15) Jaffna
(17) Hapitigam (16) Dharga Town
(2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
02 Science (9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
(2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
03 Mathematics (7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
04 Physical Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(3) Mahaweli
05 English (10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
06 Buddhism (4) Sariputta
(17) Hapitigam
07 Hinduism (6) Vavuniya
08 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
09 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
10 Special Education (17) Hapitigam (8) Addalaichenai
(15) Jaffna
11 Agriculture and Food Technology (11) Pulathisipura (6) V avuniya
12 Technical Studies (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
13 Art (9) Batticaloa
14 Dance (Bharatha) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
15 Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
16 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
17 Drama and Theatre (15) Jaffna
(7) Sri Pada
18 Information Communication Technology (13) Ruwanpura
(16) Dhar ga Town
19 First Language (Sinhala) (7) Sri Pada
(12) Wayamba
(14) Ruhuna
(7) Sri Pada
20 First Language (Tamil) (8) Addalaichenai
(16) Dharga Town
21 Second Language (Sinhala) (3) Mahaweli
22 Second Language (Tamil) (3) Mahaweli
23 Home Economics (16) Dharga Town
24 Social Science (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
25 Business and Accounting (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
(15) Jaffna

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1159
Note : (i) Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
(ii) Courses for Art, Dance (Baratha), Music (Carnatic), Drama and Theatre, Home Economics, Social Science will be
conducted only in Tamil Medium.
(iii) Courses for Western Music, Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English Medium.
6.0 Procedure for Selection of Trainees for Year 2011 :
6.1 Basis of Selection :
6.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher carder requirements in the school system
in the year 2014.
6.1.2 The basis of selection will be the Z score obtained at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2009. Student will be selected for
English/Information Communication Technology and Physical Education Courses on the achievements and performances
of Proficiency Selection . Tests/Sports in case of obtaining the same mark in Proficiency Test or Performance of
Sports, by two or more applicants, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will be considered.
Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks for a Credit pass
and 01 marks for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number of
marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects. Selection for all courses will be
40% on National Level and 60% on Difficult District Level except for Sri Pada National College of Education.
6.1.3 Applicants who prefer to follow English Medium Coruses Western Music and Information Communication Technology
and Sinhala/Tamil Medium Business and Accounting Course should qualify with a Credit pass in the English Language
or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature. Applicants for English Language Course should have obtained a very good
pass in English Language or Credit Pass in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination including six core subjects
with Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics.
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test conducted for Physical Education and Western
Music.
6.2 Difficult District Basis :
6.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from applicants belonging to the 17 districts deemed as difficult based
on the distribution of educational facilities. (Matale, Mullativu, Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Vavuniya, Polonnaruwa,
Hambantota, Trincomalee, Badulla, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Moneragala, Kilinochchi, Ampara, Ratnapura, Mannar,
Puttalam).
Number to be admitted from each district will be decided for each course proportional to the number of students
appeared for G . C. E. (A/L) - 2009 Examination in all media in respective districts.
6.2.2 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from other districts.
6.2.3 Determination of Districts :
6.2.3.1 The district of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the last
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination at
the first sitting.
6.2.3.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
6.2.3.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2) years period ending on the
last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination
at the first sitting.
6.2.3.4 If any private applicant has not studied in a School, he/she should confirm his/her district of residence with the
voter's list of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1160
6.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education :
6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
6.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies prevailing at State-schools in plantation districts, 35% of the candidates
will be appointed to the Moneragala, Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
6.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil Medium Courses while 25% will be selected to Sinhala Medium Courses.
6.3.3 Primary, Mathematics, Science and first language (Sinhala) Courses will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium whereas
Information Communication Technology Course, in the English Medium. Primary, Mathematics, Science, Music
(Carnatic), Dance (Bharatha) and First Language (Tamil), Social Science Courses will be conducted in the Tamil
Medium. (These courses will be offered at Sri Pada National College of Education.).
6.3.4 6.3.4.1 Applications for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children
of the residents in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla, Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara,
Galle and Kurunegala Plantation Districts. Priority is given to children of the workers who work at present.
6.3.4.2 In case of insufficient number of children of the estate workers as applicants from the estate sector, applications
from those of the estate workers who worked at least 05 years after 2000 will be considered although they are
not employed at the moment. (Priority is given sequentially as 2009, 2008, 2007.)
6.3.4.3 In case of insufficient number of children, of the estate workers as applicants from the above districts for
Tamil Medium, applicants those who are not children of estate workers, but Indian Origin live in above
mentioned Districts, will be considered.
6.3.4.4 In case of insufficiency of qualified applicants from plantation districts, Tamil Medium applicants who are
from other districts with Indian Origin will be considered.
6.3.4.5 Tamil medium Indian Origin applicants those who live in Plantation Districts and other districts should have
passed in three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination.
6.3.4.6 In case of insufficient number of Sinhala Medium applicants from Plantation Districts, the rest of the
vacancies will be filled from those who applied for the same course in other National Colleges of Education.
The basis of the selection will be the Z-score.
6.3.5 At the interview the children of the employees in the State and Private Sector Estate Companies should submit a letter
from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (indicating employee's period of service) that he is permanently
serving for the past period of 05 years or more/retirement from the plantation sector (indicating year and date clearly).
Candidate's letter agreeing to serve a period of ten (10) years continuously in the schools in the plantation sector after
the training and letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident Fund including Registration
Numbers. Paragraph 6.2.2 will be applied for the applicants of Sri Pada National College of Education when deciding
district of applicants.
6.3.6 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note : In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered
for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil Origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in Tamil
Medium will be considered for the Sinhala medium percentage.
7.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
7.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.
7.2 Applicants who fail to submit the originals of all certificates will not be considered.
7.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1161
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board should
be implemented.
7.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date, he/ she
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order. Appeals from the applicants who fails to register within 03 days from the due date will strictly not be considered.
7.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physcially and mentally fit for service in any part of the island.
7.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education where such Courses are conducted.
7.7 In selecting applicants for a Course, if the number of applicants who have obtained equivalent Z Score at the G. C. E. (A/L)
is in excess of the number of vacancies available, the results obtained by the applicants at the G . C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting
will be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks for
a credit pass and 01 mark for an ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total number
of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible to apply or to get admitted :
8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
8.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
8.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
8.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or any other Higher
Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement. (Students who were/are already registered and withdrawn
the registration will not be eligible to apply.). And those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on
disciplinary ground.
9.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
9.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.
9.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and the second year. Internal Test conducted at th e
end of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Except, those who
follow English Courses all those who follow other Courses should pass in the English subject at the above examinations.
Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
9.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,000 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance of Rs. 2,500 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
9.4 During the period of training a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is treated as the entry requirement.
If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course amount of the Bond (Rs. 500,000) incurred for him/her will be
surcharged and the trainee will be removed from the Course.
9.5 The clergy of any religion should make an agreement with the Ministry of Education on at least 5 years service without being
disrobed If the trainees get married during the period of training their studentship will be cancelled.
9.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 9.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board shall be the final
decision.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1162
9.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a Special
Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board.
9.8 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
9.9 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Education Zonal Level in difficult districts.
9.9.1 In future priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for
Government Schools. Therefore, the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above Course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
9.9.2 Priority is given to those who will follow these training courses in appointing teachers to Government Schools.
Therefore, candidates should appear for the interviews if only they can adhere to the conditions mentioned above.
9.9.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should enter into an Agreement with the Secretary
of the Ministry of Education that they will serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period of five (5)
years from the date of appointment in the Difficult District/Education Zone they have been appointed. The
Education Zone for which the appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason whatsoever.
9.10 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign a Bond for Rs. 500,000 for the cost to be
incurred for providing training and for supply of infrastructure facilities. A student who leave the Course half way or who
fail to serve for five years under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount in the Bond to
the Government.
9.11 If any applicant claims to change the selected National College of Education on medical/personal reasons will not be eligible
for admission.
9.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
10.0 Application :
10.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses. If applied for the same course in two media, it is considered as applied
for two courses. Such applicant can apply only for one more course. Buddhist monks should apply for the Course of
Buddhism whereas the clergy of Christianity, Hinduism and Islam for their respective courses of religions.
10.2 An applicant can enclose only one application and two of its certified copies in the same envelope. If any applicant has
submitted applications other than the above mentioned application and the two certified copies all the applications will be
rejected.
10.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under registered post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 30.07.2010.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed should be as follows :
‘Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2011
Course Number indicated as first preference .......... Medium ................
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes/No.
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education),
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations).

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1163
10.5 The postal receipt of registration issued in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be sent
in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.
10.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Year and Course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.
10.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
10.8 No other document should be attached to the application.
10.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate the candidate will  be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
11.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
12.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
SUNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
24th June, 2010.
INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    THE    PREPARATION    OF    APPLICATION    FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible. Submit only one application form
with two of its photocopies enclosed in one envelope. (School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal
while the private applicants should get them certified by a Justice of the Peace).
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (legal) F5 size white paper (21.8 x 33c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form. Paragraphs
1.0 to 09.5 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “x” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 09.5 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, Index Number of G. C. E. (A/L) and Z Score
should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and ille gible
and erroneous writing.
4.0 The information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course,
Paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course,
Paragraph 14.0 for Catholicism /Christianity Course,
Paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/Islam Course,
Paragraph 16.0 for Technological Studies and paragraph 17.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the
application. The information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts are indicated below  :
Colombo – 01 Hambantota – 09 Amparai – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Puttalam – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Matale – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Kandy – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Baticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1164
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2011
(An applicant should submit only one application and two certified photo copies of the application enclosed in one envelope. Applications
which are not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application sho uld be
included in the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.4).
1.0
Preference Course College Course Medium Course Number (18) and the medium of
Number Number S/T/E the examination (S/T/E)
1
2
3
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letter) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 6.2.3 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No.
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month  Date
5.2 National Identity Card No.
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G . C. E. (A/L) in Year 2009 :
8.1 Y ear Medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.2 Index No.
8.3 Z score                  . It Z is minus indicate M
8.4 Details of results subject wise
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature Subject No.
Year :
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National Collge of Education ? Y es 1 No 2

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1165
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘x’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil
9.5 9.5.1.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Sinhala) Medium Courses at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Tamil) : Subject No. :
9.5.1.2 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Tamil) Medium Courses at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Sinhala) : Subject No. :
10.0 If you have sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2008, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 No. of sittings for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.4.3 in Para. 4.4 of the Gazette Notification :
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.4.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports/competency will be sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grate as in 4.4.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 9.4 in the first page of this application.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1166
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-International/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.4.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final Examination according to 4.6 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Year
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para. 4.9 of the Gazette Notification.
Duration
Name of  the Course/Certificate
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH)
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary
14.3 Dharmachariya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity
14.9 Obtained a pass in G . C. E. (A/L) Christianity subjects

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1167
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism (4.7)/Islam (4.8) should fill the necessary particulars according to secreions 4.7 and 4.8 of t he Gazette
Notification :
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
16.0 The applicants of Technical Studies (4.12) should fill the necessary particulars according to the Gazette Notification.
16.1 In the application clearly indicate the applying field of the course whether the course as Design and T echnology or Crafts
and Art :––––––––.
16.2 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognized Government Institute and hope to
follow the Technical Skills Course Para. 4.12.3 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Number and Date Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical Registration in conducted the completed the course
Course Government Course
17.0 Applicants for the Western Music according in terms of para. 4.16.1 and 4.16.2 in the Gazette Notification should include relevant
particulars :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed
18.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I have forwarded only one application and two photo copies of it. I am aware that all my applications will be rejected if I
send more than one application.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this application
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued if detect ed
after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
19.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat G . C. E. (O/L) examination and G. C. E. (A/L) examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particulars given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1168
that the Aggregate marks/Z-Score ...................... (writing words) obtain by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examinati on in the
year ...................... is according to the official sheets issued by the Commissioner-General of Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
20.0 Declaration in respect of private applicants :
I certify that the aggregate marks/Z-Score obtained by me in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination in the year ............ is ....... ...... (write
in words) according to the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ....................... .
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–276
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR  RECRUITMETN  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE - 2009
IN this notification the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home affairs and the  term
“Service” means the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
01. Written Examination.- This examination will consist of following question papers.
(i) General Administration
(ii) Financial Regulations
(iii) Case Study
Date of Examination .- This examination will be held in Colombo (Town No. 01) and in Jaffna (Town No. 02) on month of
October, 2010. Accordingly, candidates should indicate the town and town number in which they expect to sit the examination, in  the
relevant cage of the application. Under no circumstance will candidates be allowed to change the town indicated in the applicat ion
subsequently. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions of Public Service Commission/
Cabinet of Ministers.
Interview.- Secretary  will determine the date of the interview for candidates who have appeared for all the papers of the written
examination and secured minimum of 40% marks in each paper and a sufficiently high aggregate of marks as determined by the Publ ic
Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
02. Number of the persons to be appointed and the effective date of appointment will be determined as per the orders issued
by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
03. Conditions of Service.- A selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of the service on the General conditions governing
the appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Service Minute dated 28.10.2005 (publishe d in the
Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005) and subject to any amendments
made or to be made to the Minute hereinafter.
3.1 Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers  reserves the powers to cancel the appointment of any candidate
who fails to assume duties of the appointed post on due date and/or rejects or avoids serving in an area where he/she
is appointed.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1169
04. Structure and Monthly Salary Scale.-
Special Grade - Rs. 42,390- 12x1310 - Rs. 58,110/-
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17x1050 -  Rs. 53,555/-
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8x790 -  Rs. 35,705/-
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -  Rs. 29,385/-
(Candidates are required to pass the 1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar examinations within 03 years  and 06 years from the date
of appointment respectively and in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007,
proficiency in the second official language should be acquired before the lapse of 05 years from the date of appointment).
Recruitments by this examination will be made to Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
05. Eligibility.- Subject to the provisions in the note indicated at the end of this paragraph, a person will be eligible to sit the
Limited Competitive Examination if he/she either;
(a) (i) Is a public officer confirmed in the following services/grades as at 31.12.2009 ; and
(ii) Has not less than 10 years continuous permanent service in any one or more of such services/grades as at 31.12.2009 ;
or
(b) (i) Is a public officer confirmed in the following services/grades and has not less than 05 years continuous permanent
service in any one or more of such services/grades as at 31.12.2009 ; and
(ii) Has obtained a degree from a u niversity recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.- (a) The effective date of the degree shall be a date on or before 31.12.2009 and candidates should have satisfied
qualifications indicated in 5 a (i) and (ii) or 5b(i) and (ii) above, on or before the above date.
(b) The candidate should be of an excellent moral character and physical fitness.
(c) No person ordained in any religious order shall sit the examination.
Services and Grades  :
(i) An officer in any of the following Combined services under the control of the Director General of Combined Services.
Officers in Public Management Assistants’ Service, Translators, Librarians.
(ii) An officer in any of the following Clerical Services :
Railway, Government Printing, Health
(iii) An officer in any of the following Department Grade or who had been in such a Grade and subsequently absorbed to
a similar Grade in the Provincial Public Service.
Department/Ministry Grades
All Ministries Assistant Secretary (Non SLAS)
Public Relations Officer
Ministry of Youth Affairs Assistant Director (Sports)/District Sports
Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation Officer/Sports Officer
Ministry of Finance and Planning Department Projects Officer, Statistical Survey Officer,
of Policy Planning and Implementation Statistical Assistant, Plan & Implementation Officer
Department of Immigration & Emigration Senior Authorized Officer, Authorized Officer
Department of Registration of Persons Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Department of Census and Statistics Statistics Investigator
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine Hospital Secretary
Department of Ayurveda Investigations Officer
Ministry of Social Services & Social Welfare Assistant Director (Departmental)
Department of Social Services Superintendent of Welfare and Social Welfare,
Superintendent of State Homes for aged and infirmed, Social Services
Officer

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1170
Department of Probation and Childcare Head Master, Head Mistress, Probation Officer,
Hostel Warden, House Master, Home Mistress
Ministry of Lands & Land Development Lands officer/District Lands Officer,
Land Commissioner’s Department (Departmental)/Land Utilization Planning
Officer/Kachcheri Surveyor/Colonization Officer
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs Grama Niladhari
Department of Official Languages Research Assistant, Translator
Ministry of Labour Relations and Manpower Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Industrial Assistant, General Manager, Manager
Employment Promotion Assistant, Economic Assistant, Technical Assistant
Department of Textile
Ministry of Healthcare & Nutrition Hospital Secretary, Planning & Program Officer,
Public Health Inspector, Registered and Assistant Medical Practitioners.
Ministry of Local Government & Provincial Assistant Commissioner (Departmental), Local
Councils, Department of Provincial Councils Government Clerical Officers, Translator,
Shroff, Stenographer, Typist, Storekeeper
Ministry of Trade & Marketing Development Inspector of Weight and Measures, Price
and Consumer Affairs, Control Inspector
Department of Measurement Unit Standards and Services
Ministry of Agriculture Development and Agricultural Instructor, Divisional Officer,
Agrarian Services A ssistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Department of Agriculture
Department of Agrarian Services
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms Translator, Publication Assistant, Stenographer
Department of Legal Draftsman
Supreme Court
Ministry of Transport Motor Traffic Inspector
Department of Motor Traffic
Ministry of Irrigation and Water Management Planning Assistant
Department of Irrigation
Ministry of Central Region Development Development Officer/Senior Supervisor of
Rural Development, Senior Rural Development
Assistant, Rural Development Officer, Rural Development Assistant
Ministry of Cultural Affairs Cultural Officers
National Museum
Department of Cultural Affairs
Ministry of Education Superintendent of Hostels
Ministry of Information & Media Press Officer, Proof Reader
Department of Government Information
Government Press
Ministry of Post and Telecommunication Postal Combined Services Officers in the salary
Department of Post scale T-3 -5-1 and T-3-4, Postal Service Officers (B1) of Unified Postal
Service
Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Fisheries Assistant
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Department of Cooperative Development District Officer, Cooperative Inspector
Department of Food Commissioner Food Control Inspector (former Food & Price Control Inspector)
Department/Ministry Grades

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1171
(d) Provincial Public Service : An officer in any of the following services who have satisfied basic qualifications mentioned
above.
Clerk, Stenographer, Typist, Shroff, Book Keeper, Translator, Store Keeper, Librarian.
(e) Provincial Public Service : An officer in any of the following services who have satisfied basic qualifications mentioned
above.
Revenue Inspector, Labour & Welfare Officer, Inspector of Weighing and Measuring, Relief Officer at Department of
Commissioner of Charity Colombo Municipal Council, Staff Officer and Secretary, Management Service Officer, Local
Government Officer.
(f) It is illegal to make applications by the officers who are not belonging to the posts indicated in this Gazette notification
(Except for officers who have been absorbed to new posts due to change of designation). Such officers will not be considered
for appointments even though they sit for the examination.
Note :– (i) Candidates who have not possessed satisfactory service reports within the 5 years immediately preceding 31.12.2009
will not be considered for appointments even if they sit for the examination.
(ii) A candidate is considered as having possessed a satisfactory period of service if he/she satisfies the following conditions ;
(a) Candidate should have earned all due salary increments within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on which
the qualifications should have to be completed.
(b) Candidates should have not been subjected to any punishment for any offence committed within this period (Except
warning)
(iii) An officer who has been interdicted by the closing date of applications is not eligible for appointment.
(iv) As per Section 5(1) or 5(2) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, no person is allowed to sit the Competitive
Examination for more than two occasions altogether ;
06. Examination Fees .- The fee for the examination will be Rs. 500.00. This should be paid before the closing date of
applications at any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 20-03-20-13. The receipt obtained thus from the
District/Divisional Secretariat should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application form. The fee is non-refundable. It w ould be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
07. Method of applications :–
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared on paper
of size 8 1/2" x 12" inches (A4 Paper) using both sides. It is to be specifically noted that the application should be
prepared in such a way that headings No. 1.0 to 3.11 appear on the 1st page 4.0 to 6.0 II on the second page and the
rest on the third page. The application should be filled legibly by the candidate himself in his own handwriting.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen or that have not been completed properly will be rejected
without notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with the candidate. It is the responsibility of
the candidate to verify that the perfected application complies with the specimen given in the notification, as
otherwise, the application may be rejected.
(b) The application should be prepared in the same language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination. It is
required to indicate the name of the examination in English also in the applications prepared both in Sinhala and Tamil
media.
(c) Applications perfected by candidates should be sent through the respective Head of Department to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, (Organizations & Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla before 09th August, 2010 by Registered Post. The top left corner of the envelope containing
the application should clearly bear the words “Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka
Administrative Service - 2009”. Application received after this date will be rejected.
(d) Applications that are not complete in every aspect will be rejected. Complaints on applications getting lost or
delayed will not be entertained.
(e) A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are
issued to candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1172
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations. i. e.—  certified photocopies of
the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
08. Admission to Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission Cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination should produce his admission card to the supervisor of
the examination center. Any candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit the
examination;
(b) Candidates must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate should card attested in
advance and surrender to the supervisor of the hall, on the first day he presents himself for the Examination. A set of
rules to be observed by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
(c) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting the examination and they are liable to a punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note :- Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to sit the examination
has been accepted.
09. Identity of Candidates.–  A Candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, one of the following documents only will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
10. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any state, prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has purposely furnished false information  or willfully
suppressed any material fact, he or she will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
11. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
of the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
12. Scheme of Examination.— Language Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in the language media of Sinhala, Tamil and English ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination/interview for
entry into the Public Service or in an official language.
Note :- (i) A candidate should sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(ii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
13. Method of Testing :
(a) A test consisting of written papers in the following subjects:
General Administration - 100 marks - duration 03 hrs.
Financial Regulations - 100 marks - duration 03 hrs.
Case Study - 100 marks - duration 02hrs.
(b) Oral Test - 25 marks
Selection of those to be summoned for the Oral Test will be made from among those who have sat all the papers in the written
examination. Only those candidates who obtain a minimum of 40% of marks in each paper and a sufficiently high aggregate of marks, as
determined by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers will be eligible to be called for the Oral Test. If there are a sufficient
Number of candidates who become eligible thus a number equivalent to twice the Number of vacancies existing will be called for the oral
test.
(Marking scheme will be approved by the Public Services Commission/Cabinet of Ministers at the preliminary stage by
recruitment.).
Note:- Calling for the oral test shall not constitute fulfilling of qualifications for an appointment. The number of vacancies to be
filled will be as determined by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
The number to be appointed at a time will be decided by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1173
14. Syllabus :
(a) General Administration .- It is intended to test the candidates’ knowledge on office practice and systems, current
circular instructions and the provisions of the Establishments  Code with special reference to the following  chapters
and the procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission in the Gazette Extraordinary of the government
added 20.02.2009.
V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,  XLVIII.
(b) Financial Regulation :
(i) Part I of the Financial Regulations of the Government (Except Chapter X).
(ii) The Estimates of the current year - their arrangements, the Revenue Heads, the Finance and appropriation.
(iii) Ordinance related to specific accounts maintained in Kachcheries.
(c) Case Study.— A paper designed to test the candidate’s power of constructive thinking and problem solving ability. The
candidate will be presented with one or more situations posing problems to which solutions are required.
Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers reserves the authority to take final decision on matters relating to prescriptions
on qualifications of candidates who apply or already applied for the examination or any part of the notification of which the c ontent is
not clear.
On the order of Cabinet of Ministers
D. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
24th June, 2010.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF
SRI LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2009
1.0 Medium : 2.0 Town :
Medium of Examination Town in which you intend to sit the exam :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 Relevant Town
(Indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
* The application should be filled in the medium of (In terms of Para 1 of the examination notice) (the town
language in which the candidate intends to sit the indicated will not be allowed to change)
examination
3.0 Personal Information  :
3.1 Name, with initials at the end (In English block capitals)  : Example :  SILV A, A. B.
3.2 Name in full (In English block capitals) :————.
3.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
3.4 Official address in English block capitals (Admission card will be sent to this address) :————.
3.5 Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1174
3.6 Private Address (In Sinhal/Tamil) :————.
3.7 Sex : Male - 0 Female - 1   - Indicate relevant number in the cage
3.8 Marital Status (Single - 1, Married - 2) - Indicate relevant number in the cage
3.9 Race : (Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, IndianTamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other- 5)  - Indicate relevant number in the cage
       3.10 National Identity Card No. :
3.11 Date of Birth :         Year :    Month : Date :
4.0 Indicate the language medium in which you passed the qualifying examination/interview  for entry to the Service/Grade :—.
5.0 (i) Your Service/Grade out of the Services, Departmetns, Grades mentioned in Para. 5 of the Gazette Notification [Class,
Grade or Segment (if any) should be indicated]. (If you have served in more than one eligible Service/Grade, those should
be indicated with dates) :————.
(a) Present Post:————.
Service to which the Post belongs (Public/Provincial Public):————.
Grade :————.
Class/Segment :————.
Date of appointment to the post :————.
Date of confirmation in the post :————.
Effective date of Degree :————.
(b) Other services./grades (if any) through which you claim eligibility :
Name of Service/Grade Date of Appointment Date of Confirmation Period of Service
(1) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(2) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(3) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(4) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(5) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(ii) T otal period of permanent and continuous service as at the closing date of applications in the services/grades referred to in Para
(5) of the Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
6.0 (i) The years in which you have sat the Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service :
(I) ————. (II) ————. (III) ————.
(IV) ————. (V) ————. (VI) ————.
(ii) The years in which you have sat the Open Competitive Examination for Recritment to the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service :
(I) –––––––––––, (II)  –––––––––––, (III)  –––––––––––.
7.0 Paste the cash receipt properly :
(Paste the cash receipt firmly.)
(Keep a photocopy.)
8.0 Certificate of the candidate :
I declare that during the five years preceding .................., I have earned all increments (Excluding those conditional to passing
service or departmental examinations) and that I have not been subject to any form of disciplinary punishment (Excluding
warning) for any offence committed during those five years.
I declare that I am eligible to sit this Limited Competitive Examination and that to the best of my knowledge, the information
given in this is true and that I have affixed the receipt, No. .......... dated ............... being payment of the examinatio n. I also

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1175
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of this examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature
prior or during or after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination.
Further, I declare that I shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting of this examination.
————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date : ————.
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who is submitting this application has earned all salary incr ements during
the period of 5 years prior to ................. (except the increments which require passing of service or departmental tests) , has not
been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings), the particulars furnished in the application have been found
correct according to available records, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in this Gazette
Notification, he/she has paid the prescribed and affixed the receipt herein and signed this application in my presence.
—————,
Signature and official stamp of Head of
Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :—————.
Designation :—————.
Date :—————.
(Place official frank)
07–307
–––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH
First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development
Officers Service – 2008(2009)
IT is hereby informed that the Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in the above service is expected to be held in Colom bo in
September, 2010. Accordingly, applications are being called from officers in service as at 01st June, 2010 in the Sri Lanka Liv estock
Development Officers Service in the Department of Animal Production and Health.
02. The time tables will be prepared enabling the officers to sit for the two Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus.– The syllabus and other provisions which govern the Efficiency Bar Examination I and II are stipulated in the
service minute. The syllabuses for the Efficiency Bar Examination I and II for the officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Service
are stated in Annexure 'A' and 'B' respectively.
An officer may sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. Following are the subjects for which the officers should sit in the said Efficiency Bar Examination.
Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service
E. B. Examination I E. B. Examination II
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. (hours) No. (hours)
01 Office Administration and 02 03 Office Administration and 02
Establishments Code Establishments Code
02 Financial Regulations 02 04 Financial Regulations 02
(Note : candidates should score a minimum of 40% or more for each paper to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination I and II)

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1176
05. The attention of the officers who wish to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination is drawn to Section 5 of Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04th September, 1966 stated below.
The medium of the departmental examinations (including the Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the
medium or the Official language in which the applicants sat for the admission test to enter the Public Service. But the medium for
promotional or efficiency bar examinations for those who have joined the service without a competitive examination should be th e
language or national language in which the officer became eligible to gain entry to the service.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will make provisions enabling the candidates to answer the above papers in
Sinhala, Tamil or English, but permission will not be given to change the medium later.
07. If it is revealed even later that a candidate has appeared for the examination in a medium he is not entitled to his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
08. Application should be prepared using both sides of a A4 paper according to the specimen application appended. Cages 01-
08 should appear on page 01 and the balance on page 02. The application should be completed by the candidate in his/her own han d
writing and the applications which are in completed or are not prepared according to the specimen form will be rejected without  notice.
Possession of a photocopy of this duly completed application form with the applicant will be useful. The applicant should ensur e that
the completed application form is in compliance with the specimen application form and non compliance applications will be rejected. It
is necessary to write the name of the examination on top of the specimen application in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala
and Tamil. The candidates who wish to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II should send separate applications for each
examination.
09. The examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations and all candidates are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations enacted by him. The rules and regulations have been given at the end of this notice. Candidates are subje ct to such
rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examination and if violated candidates should have to face pena lty
imposed by the Commissioner Geneal of Examination.
10. Application should be sent through the Head of the Department by registered post to reach the Director General, Department
of Animal Production and Health on or before 29th July, 2010. Applications received after this date will be rejected.
11. A notification will be published by the Department of Examinations in the News Papers immediately after admission cards
are issued to the candidates and any candidate who did not receive admission cards even 2 or 3 days subsequent to the News Pape r
advertisement should inform the Department of Examinations as instructed in the notice. It is advisable to inform the Departmen t of
Examinations by having the following items stand by the certified photostat copy of the receipt of payment. Application forms r eceipt
of registration and if you stay outside Colombo your letter of request giving fax nubmer enabling to send the admission card. Applicants
living close by are instructed to inform the organization and examination Barnch of the Department of Examination through a messenger.
12. The candidates who are unable to comply with requirements stated in the above paragraph 11 and produce documents later
will not be considered.
13. Attention of all candidates will be drawn to circular No. SE/274 of 29th June, 1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations with regard to submission of identity cards. It is the responsibility of the candidate to prove the identity at the examination
hall. Only an identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Person or a valid passport will be accepted in proof of  identity
of the applicant to the supervisor of the examination held by the Sri Lanka Department of Examination. The signature of the candidate in
the admission card should be attested and produce to the supervisor at the commencement of the examination.
14. It has been decided to levy examination fees from the candidates, on the following basis :
(a) No fee will be levied for the whole examinations or part of it, at the first attempt,
(b) Thereafter, for each attempts :
For whole examination Rs. 100 0
Each subject Rs. 50 0
The candidates should make the payments in terms of stamp fees and duly cancel the stamps by placing their signatures.
The candidates who have already sat for the examination are advised to pay the relevant fees stated above.
A. H. G
AMAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Micheal's Road,
Colombo 03,
21st June, 2010.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1177
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS SERVICE - 2008/2009
(THE TOP LEFT HAND CORNER OF THE ENVELOPE SHOULD BEAR THE NAME OF THE EXAMINA TION)
Medium of Language of the examination the officer sit in : Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(State the relevant number in the cage)
Name of examination the officer applied for :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2 (State the relevant number in the cage)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
Ie. FERNANDO B. A.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
02. Date of Birth :  Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation :––––––––––.
Name of Department :––––––––––.
04. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
05. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects offered (should be stated clearly) with the subject numbers as indicated in the fourth paragraph of the notificatio n :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit for the examination previously in whole or in part. If so, state the subjects, year and month :–– –––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium of language
indicated in Para 08 above.
I also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me. Further, I also agree to
be bound by the rules and regulations enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations, with regard to conducting of the sai d
examination.
09. *Fees paid Rs. :––––––––––.
Cage for stamps
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General Department of Animal Production and Health
Forwarded :-
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear herein in is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she is eligi ble to
sit for the examination in the medium of language he/she had indicated in paragraph 08.
I also certify that the stamp has/have been duly affixed and cancelled by the candidate him/herself.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*cut off if no fee is payable)

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'07'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.07.2010
1178
ANNEXURE A
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service consists of following subjects :
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code. (Total Marks 100)
2. Financial Regulations (Total Marks 100)
01. Office Administration and Establishments Code :
The paper on Office Administration and Establishments Code is based on the following :
Establishments Code Chapter II, III, IV , V , VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XIX, XLVIII
Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark.
Financial Regulations. – This paper is based on the following chapters of the Financial Regulations.
Chapter 1
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue
Consolidated Fund, Annual estimates, variations to annual estimates. (from F. R. 1 to 68).
Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability
Chief Accounting Officer, Accounting Officer, Revenue Account Officers, Delegation of power for payments, Approval
Ordination of Certification. (FR 124-147). Further, the facts stated in Chapter 12 of the new procurement procedure guideline
are also included in the paper.
Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark.
Candidate may sit for the above subjects separately.
ANNEXURE B
(b) Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service consists of following
subjects :
1. Office Administration and Establishments Code. (Total marks 100)
2. Financial Regulations (Total marks 100)
01. Office Administration and Establishments Code.– The paper on Office Administration and Establishments Code is based on the
following :
Establishments Code Chapter XV , XVI, XXIII, XXIV, XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XLVII, XLVIII.
The Public Administration circulars will be applicable in case of appraisal of performance of officers.
Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark.
02. Financial Regulations .– This question paper is based on the following chapter of the Financial Regulation :
Chapter VI
Custody of public money, imprest and Bank Accounts, Security of Public Finances, Boards of Survey, Overdrafts and Bank
Accounts (FR 315 to 396).
Chapter XIII
Supplies and Services
Purchasing process, verification of stores, storing process, deviation from the contract tender procedure (from FR 708-775).
Further the facts stated in Chapter 12 of the new procurements procedure too are included in the paper.
Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark.
Candidate may sit for the above subjects separately.
07–302
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.