

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of December 11, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 14. 12. 2015)
A
BILL
to  provide for the formulation and registration of Kathikawath in
relation to Nikaya or Chapters of Theravadi Bhikkus in Sri Lanka; to provide
for every Bhikku to act in compliance with the provisions of the Registered
Kathikawath of the Nikaya or Chapter which relates to such Bhikku;
to impose punishment on Bhikkus who act in violation of the provisions of
any Registered Kathikawath, and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Minister of Buddhasasana
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
THERAVADI BHIKKU KATHIKAWATH
(REGISTRATION)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)
5
10
15
2—PL 009468—425 (12/2015)
L.D.—O. 15/2014.
AN ACT TO  PROVIDE FOR THE FORMULATION AND REGISTRATION OF
KATHIKAWATH IN RELATION TO NIKAYA OR CHAPTERS OF THERAVADI
BHIKKUS IN SRI LANKA; TO PROVIDE FOR EVERY BHIKKU TO ACT
IN COMPLIANCE  WITH THE PROVISIONS  OF THE R EGISTERED
KATHIKAWATH OF THE NIKAYA OR CHAPTER WHICH RELATES TO SUCH
BHIKKU; TO IMPOSE PUNISHMENT ON BHIKKUS WHO ACT IN VIOLATION
OF THE PROVISIONS OF ANY REGISTERED KATHIKAWATH, AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Theravadi Bhikku
Kathikawath (Registration) Act, No.     of 2015.
2. (1) The Karaka Sangha Sabha of each Theravadi
Bhikku Nikaya or Chapter (hereinafter referred to as the
“Nikaya or Chapter”) may for the purpose of this Act
formulate and adopt a Kathikawath pertaining to that Nikaya
or Chapter.
(2) Every Kathikawath referred to in subsection (1) shall,
inter alia, have provisions pertaining to:—
(a) the composition and functions of the Karaka
Sangha Sabha of the relevant Nikaya or Chapter;
(b) a code of conduct and discipline to be strictly
followed by a bhikku in conducting himself;
(c) the manner of conducting inquiries in case of
violations by any bhikku of the code of conduct
and discipline referred to in paragraph ( b); and
(d) punishments for such violations.
Short Title.
Formulation
of
Kathikawath.

<!-- page 3 -->

Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)2
5
10
15
20
(3) The code of conduct and discipline referred to in
paragraph ( b) of subsection (2) may contain provisions
pertaining to a bhikku—
(a) engaging in or carrying out occult practices or
similar activities and giving publicity to such
activities;
(b) involving in trade or business activities;
(c) obtaining driving licences and driving vehicles;
(d) engaging in any employment in the public or
private sector other than in the fields of education,
social services or religious affairs; and
(e) engaging in activities unsuitable for a bhikku in a
manner contrary to bhikku vinaya in public places.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (2) the
following punishments may be included in a Kathikawath:—
(a) temporary expulsion from the residing temple;
(b) permanent expulsion from the residing temple;
(c) temporary removal from the office of
viharadhipathy ;
(d) permanent removal from the office of
viharadhipathy ;
(e) expulsion from the studentship;
(f) expulsion from the relevant Nikaya or Chapter; and
(g) cancellation of the bhikku registration.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. (1) The Registrar Thero of the relevant Nikaya or
Chapter shall submit the Kathikawath formulated and
adopted under section 2, to the Commissioner-General for
registration along with a duly completed application and a
statement signed by the most Venerable Mahanayake
Thero of such Nikaya or Chapter to the effect that the
Kathikawath was duly adopted by the Karaka Sangha Sabha.
(2) The form and manner of such application shall be
prescribed.
4. (1) The Commissioner-General shall submit the
Kathikawath applied to be registered to a Panel of Experts
appointed under section 5 to examine whether such
Kathikawath–
(a) contravenes the provisions of any written law; and
(b) is in compliance with Buddhist dhamma vinaya
and customs.
(2) Where the Panel of Experts is of the opinion that the
provisions of a Kathikawath contravens any of the
requirements stipulated in subsection (1), it shall
communicate such opinion to the Commissioner-General
who shall inform the same to the Registrar Thero of the
relevant Nikaya or Chapter in order to revise the relevant
Kathikawath to be in compliance with such requirements
and resubmit it to the Panel of Experts for examination.
(3) Where the provisions of the Kathikawath is in
compliance with the requirements stipulated in subsection
(1), the Panel of Experts shall issue a certificate to that effect
to the Commissioner-General.
5. The Minister shall in consultation with the most
Venerable Mahanayake Theros of Three Nikaya, appoint a
five member Panel of Experts which shall consist of:—
(a) three Buddhist bhikkus; and
Registrar to
submit the
Kathikawath
to
Commissioner-
General for
registration.
Commissioner-
General to
submit
Kathikawath
to Panel of
Experts.
Appointment
of Panel of
Experts.

<!-- page 5 -->

Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)4
5
10
15
20
25
(b) two Attorneys-at-law conversant with the
disciplinary rules pertaining to Buddhist bhikkus,
for the purpose of examining any Kathikawath submitted
under section 4 for any contravention of the requirements
stipulated in subsection (1) of that section.
6. (1) Upon receipt of the certificate of the Panel of
Experts, the Commissioner-General shall register the
Kathikawath.
(2) Upon the registratoin of the Kathikawath the
Commissioner-General shall issue a certificate of registration
and:—
(a) hand over the certificate of registration together
with a copy of the registered Kathikawath to the
most Venerable Mahanayake Thero of the relevant
Nikaya or Chapter, in person; and
(b) send a copy of such certificate of registration to the
Registrar Thero by registered post.
7. (1) The relevant Karaka Sangha Sabha of any Nikaya
or Chapter may where necessary adopt amendments to the
Kathikawath registered under section 6.
(2) The procedure set out in sections 3 and 4 of this Act
shall be applicable for the registration of any amendment to
a Kathikawath.
(3) Every application for registration of any amendments
to a registered Kathikawath shall be in such form as may be
prescribed.
8. The Commissioner-General shall maintain a register
for the registered Kathikawath and the amendments to the
registered Kathikawath.
Registration
of
Kathikawath.
Registration
of
amendments
to
Kathikawath.
Commissioner-
General to
maintain a
register of
registered
Kathikawath.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)
5
10
15
20
25
9. Where a Kathikawath pertaining to a Nikaya or
Chapter is registered under this Act—
(a) the provisions of such Kathikawath shall be
applicable to every bhikku who belongs to such
Nikaya or Chapter; and
(b) every bhikku belonging to such Nikaya or Chapter
shall strictly adhere to and conduct himself in
accordance with, the provisions of such
Kathikawath.
10. (1) Where a bhikku violates the provisions of
the registered Kathikawath of the Nikaya or Chapter to
which such bhikku belongs, the Karaka Sangha Sabha of
the  relevant Nikaya or Chapter shall hold and inquiry in
respect thereof.
(2) At the inquiry specified in subsection (1), the bhikku
alleged to have violated the provisions of such Kathikawath
shall be given and opportunity to be heard.
(3) The Registrar Thero of the relevant Nikaya or Chapter
shall handover the decision of the Karaka Sangha Sabha to
the bhikku alleged to have violated the provisions of a
registered Kathikawath personally or inform him of such
decision by sending it to him through registered post.
11. (1) The bhikku alleged to have violated the
provisions of a registered Kathikawath shall act in accordance
with the decision of the Karaka Sangha Sabha.
(2) A bhikku who fails or refuses to comply with such
decision shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate be
liable to a fine not less than rupees fifty thousand or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or both
such fine and imprisonment.
30
Bhikku shall
comply with
the
provisions of
the
Kathikawath.
Inquiry to be
held
regarding
contravention
of the
provisions of
the
Kathikawath.
To act
contrary to
the decision
of the Karaka
Sangha
Sabha to be
an offence.

<!-- page 7 -->

Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)6
12. A bhikku against whom and inquirty is pending
under section 10 or who is guilty of an offecne under this
Act shall not be accepted or registered as a bhikku by any
Nikaya or Chapter other than the Nikaya or Chapter to which
such bhikku belongs.
13. (1) Minister may in consultation with the most
Venerable Mahanayake Theros of the three Nikaya make
regulations for the purpose of implementation of or giving
effect to the principles or provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers specified in subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of the following matters:-
(a) any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are authorized by
this Act to be made;
(b) to specify the colour of the robe to be used by the
bhikkus, as determined by the Mahanayaka Theros
of the Three Nikaya; or
(c) to prescribe the Forms required for the purpose of
this Act.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the  Gazette, and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(4)(a) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall
as soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for its approval.
(b) Any regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of said disapproval
but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
5
10
15
20
25
Prohibition
of changing
the Nikaya or
Chapter by
an alleged
violator.
Regulations.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
14. (1) Every document duly signed and certified by
the Commissioner-General shall without any evidence to
prove the signatures contained therein as due signatures
and without such officer being called as a witness, shall be
admissible in evidence in any court and shall be prima facie
evidence of the matters stated therein, until the contrary is
proved.
(2) Where any person alleges that any document specified
in subsection (1) is a false document or the signatures
contained therein are false signatures, the burden of proof of
such fact shall lie with that person.
(3) For the purposes of this section, ‘document’ includes
any file, order, directive, report or any other relevant writing.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
16. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Bhikku” shall have the same meaning assigned to it
under the Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance
(Chapter 318);
“Temple” means, any chethiya, Stupa, bhikku residence
or one, two or all three Tripple Stupas called
“Shareerika”, “Paribhogika” and “Uddesika”
established according to the Buddha’s teaching or
a Buddhist sacred place situated in a public place
venerated and warshipped by the general public;
“Chapter” means, any Chapter established under any of
the three Thervadi Bhikku Nikaya in Sri Lanka;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Proof of
documents
issued by the
Commissioner-
General.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 9 -->

Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)8
“Commissioner-General” means, the Commissioner-
General of Buddhist Affairs;
“Karaka Sangha Sabha” means, Sangha Sabha elected for
the administrative purpose of a Theravadi Bhikku
Nikaya or Chapter;
“Kathikawath” includes any amendment made to such
Kathikawath;
“Minister” means, the Minister assigned to the subject of
Buddhist Affairs;
“Registrar” means, the Secretary or the joint Secretary of
a Nikaya or Chapter who is a member of the Karaka
Sangha Sabha of the said Nikaya or Chapter;
“Theravada Bhikku Nikaya” means, the three Nikayas
adopted and accepted in Sri Lanka in accordance
with the Theravadi tradition as “Shyamopali Maha
Nikaya”, “Sri Lanka Amarapura Maha Nikaya” and
“Sri Lanka Ramagnna Maha Nikaya”.
5
10
15

<!-- page 10 -->

9Theravadi Bhikku Kathikawath (Registration)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .