

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2421$54 - 2025 fmnrjdß ui 01 jeks fikiqrdod - 2025.02.01
No. 2421/54  -  saturday,   february  01 ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 7016 - 204 (02/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.-b 1/2009 (ii)
PADDY  MARkETING   BOARD   ACT,  No.  14  Of  1971
Order under subsection (1) of Section 61
WHereas the Paddy Marketing board act, No. 14 of 1971 make provisions to establish the Paddy Marketing board 
(hereinafter referred to as “the board”) to carry on the business as purchaser, seller, supplier, distributor, huller, miller or 
processor of paddy and rice and makes no provision to regulate the stockpiling of paddy and rice:
   and whereas the provisions are required to be made to enable the board to regulate the stockpiling of paddy for the 
purpose of effectively exercising, performing and discharging its powers, functions and duties under the Paddy Marketing 
board act, No. 14 of 1971:
   Now therefore by virtue of the powers vested in me by subsection (1) of section 61 of the Paddy Marketing board 
act, No. 14 of 1971, I, Kuragamage don Lal Kantha, the Minister of agriculture, Livestock, Lands and Irrigation, do by 
this Order, direct as follows:-
 (a) any person who has in his possession, custody or control any paddy in any ware house, silo, store, container or any 
other place on the date of coming into operation of this Order or has obtained a Permit in terms of the provisions 
of the special direction No. 79 published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2231/23 dated June 11, 2021 under sub- 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025
2a
paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 10 of the Consumer affairs authority act, No. 9 of 2003 
on or before the date of coming into operation of this Order, or any person who intends to carry on the stockpiling 
of paddy from and after the date of coming into operation of this Order shall register with the board to carry on the 
business of stockpiling of paddy, not later than two months from the date of coming into operation of this Order:
      Provided however, the preceding provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a producer of paddy who 
keeps a stock of paddy from his own cultivation:
      Provided further, a producer of paddy who keeps a stock of paddy from his own cultivation shall provide the 
board, with such information in relation to the area wherein the paddy is cultivated, variety of paddy cultivated, and 
amount of paddy stock in his possession or custody, as and when required by the board;
 (b) any person who intends to register under paragraph (a) shall make an application to the board in the form as specified 
in schedule I, with certified copies of the documents specified in the form of the application, and accompanied by a 
fee determined on the basis of stock capacity as specified in schedule II;
 (c) the board may, upon receipt of an application for a permit and on being satisfied with the qualifications of the 
applicant, issue the permit in the form as specified in schedule III. such permit shall be subjected to such conditions 
as specified in schedule IV and, unless cancelled earlier by the board, be valid for a period of one year from the date 
of issuance;
 (d) where the board refuses to issue a permit, the board shall inform the applicant the reasons for such refusal and cause 
the permit fee to be reimbursed to the applicant;
 (e) any person issued with a permit under paragraph (c) shall facilitate the Chairman of the board, or any officer of the 
board authorized by the Chairman, at any reasonable time of the day, to enter any ware house, silo, store, container or 
any other place wherein the stockpiling of paddy is carried on and allow to inspect the records of paddy collections, 
accounts and other documents. the person issued with a permit shall provide with such officers, copies or extracts 
of such documents, where necessary.
 
  Kuragamage Don Lal Kantha,
 Minister of agriculture,
 Livestock, Lands and Irrigation.
battaramulla,
31st of January 2025.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025
3a
Schedule I
Application for Obtaining a Permit for Stockpiling of Paddy
 *strike off unnecessary words
reciept No. on which payment was made
amount paid (rs.)
a. Basic information
1.  full Name of the Applicant
In sinhala/t amil
In english
address of the applicant
National Identity Card No.
t elephone No.: fax No.: e- Mail address:
Mobile
fixed
2.           Nature of Business (Mark with X in the relevant box)
(a) Individual business (b) Partnership
(c) Company (d) Co-operative
(e) farmer association (f) Public Institution
(g) Other
b. Business Information
3. (a)  Name of business
(b)  business registration No.
4. (a) Name(s) of the owner(s) of the 
premises where stockpiling of paddy 
is carried on
(b) If premises for stockpiling of paddy 
has been obtained on lease basis 
attach copies of the lease agreements
5. In which capacity does the applicant carry on stockpiling of paddy? 
(Mark with X in the relevant box)

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025
4a
(b) store keeper
(d) broker
(f) Miller / Processor
(h) Other (Please, specify)
(a) Collector
(c) distributor/t ransporter
(e) Paddy buyer
(g) Wholesaler
C. Information that must be completed by prospective applicants for obtaining a permit for stockpiling of 
     paddy
6. Information relating to the premises within which stockpiling of paddy is carried on
(a) the manner of stockpiling amount t otal capacity (Mt)
building
silo
Container
warehouse
Other
(b) address of the premises
t elephone No. assessment No.
Grama Niladhari
division d.s.division
district
(b) Name of the nearest city to the premises within 
which the stockpiling of paddy is carried on , the 
distance (in kilometers) from the city to the relevant 
premises and the travel route 
7. specification of the building, if the stockpiling of paddy is carried on within a building.
storage capacity (Mt)
floor area (m2) m
Height of the warehouse floor from the ground 
level (cm)
a verage height of side walls (m)
Underline the correct information regarding the following points. If other, please specify

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025
5a
8.
floor of the warehouse has been made from 
cement/ floor tile/other
Walls have been made from cement / tin sheets / 
other
roof has been made from roofing tile / asbestos/
other
amount of entrance doors
Lorries can be/ cannot be entered into the 
warehouse
y ear of the warehouse was built
Whether the warehouse has been insured?
If yes, please attach a copy of the Insurance Policy.
If the stockpiling of paddy is carried on within a warehouse, silo or container, specifications thereof:
amount '
storage capacity (Mt)
Made from cement/ sheet/ metal/ polythene/ 
plastic/other (please specify)
9. Capacity of drying machine, if any (Mt)
10. If an environmental License is available, please 
provide its number and validity period (attach a 
copy)
11 Number and types of existing weighing scales
Electricity facilities (Please Indicate : Available/
Not available)
Water facilities (Please indicate : Available/Not 
Available)
Fire extingusihers (Please indicate: Available/Not 
Available)
Please specify if any other equipment used for 
stockpiling of paddy
12 Details of the staff of center for stockpiling of 
paddy
I hereby declare that the information provided above is true and accurate.
date : ......................................................,
 signature of the applicant and Official 
 seal.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025
6a
Schedule II
Capacity for stockpiling of paddy per year  (Metric Ton) Annual Permit fee Rs.
up to 100 2,500 0
exceeding 100 but not exceeding 500 5,000 0
exceeding  500 but not  exceeding 1,000 7,500 0
exceeding 1,000 but not exceeding 5,000 10,000 0
exceeding 5,000 but not exceeding 10,000 12,500 0
exceeding 10,000 but not exceeding 50,000 15,000 0
exceeding 50,000 but not exceeding 100,000 20,000 0
exceeding 100,000 50,000 0
Schedule III
Paddy Stockpiling Permit Issued Under Section 61 (1) of the Paddy Marketing Board Act, No. 14 of 1979
 Permit No.
1. Name of the Permit Holder:
2. address of the Permit Holder:
3. N. I. C. No. of the Permit Holder:
4. address of the Location (s) where stockpiling of Paddy is Carried on:
5. storage Capacity:
6. Permit fee (rs.) :
7. Validity Period of the Permit :
    (a) starting date :
 
   (b) ending date :
the permit has been issued to the applicant at the locations mentioned above for the stockpiling of paddy as a business, after  
considering the application dated ................ and the payment receipt No. ........................ dated ..................., submitted by 
the applicant. this permit is granted subject to specific conditions, and the permit holder is bound to operate in accordance 
with such conditions.
Issued under the authority of the Paddy Marketing board.
.....................................,
Issuing Officer
Official stamp.
date :
address :
at Paddy Marketing board.
Schedule IV
Terms and Conditions of the Permit
1. the permit shall not be transferable to any other person and shall not be used for benefit of any person other than the 
person for whom it was issued.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025
7a
2. every permit holder shall exhibit the permit issued to him under this act in a conspicuous position in his place of 
business.
3. the permit holder shall not,  without the prior approval of the board sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any interest 
in the business covered by this permit, or enter into any agreement with regard to that business with any other person 
whereby such other person requires a proprietary interest in such business.
4. In the event of loss of permit, a certified copy thereof shall be issued by the board on submission of an affidavit by the 
permit holder, attested by a Commissioner of Oath or a Justice of Peace, confirming the loss and on payment of half the 
permit fee.
5. every permit holder who ceases to carry on business for which the permit has been issued or who changes his place of 
business shall forthwith notify the board of that fact.
6. a  permit issued to an individual shall cease on the death of the permit holder. In instance where an individual mean a 
body of persons the permit shall cease forthwith on the dissolution of that body of persons.
7.  all notices relating to this permit shall be deemed to have been duly served on the permit holder if such notices are sent 
by post or are delivered to the person for the time being in charge of the place of business or sent to the e-mail of the 
permit holder.
8. the permit holder shall, without delay, adhere to all instructions that may be issued to him from time to time by an 
authorized officer of the board on carry on his business of stockpiling of paddy. the instructions referred to above, 
among other facts, include the manner in which stockpiling is carried on and matters incidental thereto and restructuring 
or repairing of any part of his premises.
9. the permit holder shall maintain proper records, registers and account books on his business and submit the same at all 
reasonable times to be inspected by any authorized officer of the board. further the permit holder shall facilitate such 
officer to obtain copies or extracts thereof as may be necessary.
10. In addition to reports, registers and account book referred to above, the permit holder shall maintain further reports, 
registers and account books as may be required from time to time by any authorized officer of the board and submit the 
same at all reasonable times for inspection by such officer.
11. the permit holder shall submit proper reports and statistics on stock position of the place of business, for which this 
permit is issued, within the time frame as may be directed from time to time by any authorized officer of the board.
12. the permit holder shall allow for any authorized officer of the board to enter at all reasonable times into his premises 
of business and inspect his business activities or the paddy stored in the premises. He shall submit any information in 
relating to the relevant books or documents or paddy available at his premises of business.
13. the permit shall be liable for cancellation if information given in the application for permit is found to be false or 
incorrect.
eOG 02-0001
 
 
PrINted at  tHe deP artMeNt  Of GOVerNMeNt  PrINtING,  srI LaNKa.