

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'11
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.04.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1701$4 - 2011 wfm%a,a 11 jeks i÷od - 2011'04'11
No. 1701/4  -  MONDAY ,   APRIL  11,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Uva Province Provincial Council, Supervision of the Administration of the Local Government Institution Statue No. 2 of
2011 of the Uva Province Provincial Council
THE above statue having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on the 24th February 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 01st March, 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of  the public.
K. D. SIRISENA,
Secretary to the Council,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla.
01st of  April, 2011,
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Charter No. 2 of 2011 regard to the supervision of the administration of the Local Government Institutions.
Be this a charter enacted to effect the powers in regard to the supervision of the Administration of  the local
government institutions situated in the Province of Uva and to make Provision of matters connected and consequential or
relevant to it.
This charter is in accordant to the section 277(1), 277(1A), 277(1B), 277(2)(B), 277(3), of charter 252, section 184 of
chapters 255 of the urban council ordinance and section 185 of the Pradeshiya Sabha ordinance No. 15 of 1987.
Enacted by the Uva Provincial of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This charter is introduced as “The charter No. 2 of  2011 of Uva Province Provincial Council in
respect of the power in supervision of administration cited as charter No. 2 of 2011” while it shall be
effective from the date of sanction and approval of the Governor of Uva Province.
Title in brief and
date of
operation.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'11
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.04.2011
2A
2. (1) By any local government institution, or a member of any local government institution or by
the Chief Executive of a local government institution.
(A) Has been found to be inefficient or mal administered, or
(B) Has neglected to perform tasks and duties assigned or vested through relevant rule, order,
regulation or charter or any rule law or,
(C) Has neglected or defaulted to act in accordance to any rule, law, or any provision in
charters, or
(D) Has mal ministered with the powers assigned or vested through relevant law, Rule, order,
regulation, charter or on any written law or rule, or
(E) Has neglected or defaulted right through out in holding meetings or attending or
participating in meetings or matters relating to the meetings.
(F) Has neglected or defaulted right through out in participating being holding membership in
an effective permanent committee/committees.
At any occasion the minister in charge of the subject of local government of the cabinet of
ministers in Uva Province satisfies himself and according to such each occasion as required through the
orders published by the minister in the gazette.
(i) The chief executive of that local government institution can be vacated from that post, or
(ii) All members or a member of that local government institution can be vacated from that
post, or
(iii) That local government institution can be dissolved.
Such an order should be tabled before the Provincial Council as soon as possible.
(2) The minister shall appoint a retired judge to submit a report within three months after
investigation to satisfy himself in matters relating to items A up to E of subsection 1 before making an order
under items 1(i) or (ii) or (iii) of the subsection. The person appointed so has the powers of a commissioner
appointed under investigation commission ordinance in respect of that investigation.
(3) (A) “Before appointing a retired judge in respect of any matter under subsection (2) investigation
or while any investigation being instituted under subsection (2) as a cessation of the process, the
investigation conducted by the retired officer of the court of law or subject to be reported the minister
shall”
(I) The work of that chief executive of such local governemnt institution can be suspended,
while the deputy mayor or vice chairman of that local government institution shall be
ordered to work in such post at an occasion where the post of deputy mayor or the vice
chairman has been fallen vacant or the work of such deputy mayor or vice chairman has
been suspended the commissioner of municipal council or the government shall be ordered
to effect the powers of the aforementioned chief executive, or
(II) The post of any member of that local government institution can be suspended or else.
The power of
the minister to
dissolve local
government
institution on
inefficiency.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'11
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.04.2011
(III) The work of that local government institution can be suspended while the local government
assistant commissioner of the staff grade under local government provincial state service
decided by the minister or any other state officer serving in local administration can be
ordered to execute the power of that local government institution and to perform the tasks
and duties.
3. (A) When the report of the person who had been appointed under the subsection (2) of this
section in received an order can be issued under subsection (1) of this section or ordered made under
paragraph (A) of this subsection can be cancelled or executed by the minister.
4. As indicated above the minister shall issue a notice through a subsequent order in the same
manner to establish a new municipal council in lieu of the dissolved municipal couoncil in accordance with
the provision contained in the municipal council ordinance to establish a new urban council in lieu of the
dissolved urban council in accordance with the provision contained in the urban council ordinance and to
establish a new Pradeshiya Sabha in lieu of the dissolved Pradeshiya Sabha in accordance in the provision
contained in the Pradeshiya Sabha ordinance No. 15 of 1987.
5. At an occasion where the minister shall dissolved an urban council or Pradeshiya Sabha
through orders under subsection 3(1) he shall by those order or subsequent order.
A special Commissioner or Commissioners shall be appointed subject to the condition contained
definitely in the order or subject to limitations to administer the work in Pradeshiya Sabha or urban council
and for the task to execute the powers and perform tasks under ordinance No. 15 of 1987 of Pradeshiya
Sabha or an urban council under the urban council ordinance for the definite period of time or any time to
time.
6. It shall be treated as that all property and entitlements under all agreements and all powers in
possession to such special commissioner or commissioners at an occasion when the minister appoints a
special commissioner or commissioners under subsection (5). Also all responsibilities and tasks of
Pradeshiya Sabha or urban council should be vested such special commissioner or commissioners until
the end of the period declared in the order or till the minister orders in another manner while he or they
should perform them.
7. At an occasion when a Pradeshiya Sabha or an urban council has been establish after cessation
of administrative work of a Pradeshiya Sabha or an urban council by a special commissioner or commissioners
such Pradeshiya Sabha or an urban council according to the circumstances shall be the predecessor of
such special commissioner or commissioners.
8. (A) At an occasion where at any time a chief executive of a local government institution or
according to circumstances, other member has been vacated from that post his membership shall be
forfeited accordingly at the same time.
(B) Any chief executive of a local government institution member or all the members have been
vacated from their posts by the minister through under subsection (1) shall not be suitable to be selected
and appointed as a member of the local government institution again for a period of 5 years from the date
of vacating from the post.
9. At an occasion where a chief executive member or all the members have been vacated from their
posts by the minister through orders in subsection (I) an new chief executive member or members are
selected and appointed in lieu of such vacated chief executive, other member or the members and if such
new chief executive, other member or the members are not being vacated from their former post should hold
the post for the balance period of the post held by them.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'11
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.04.2011
4A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
10. In every order made under this subsection shall contain an order required to effect the order
while once it is published in the gazette in shall have the power of a charter.
11. In regard to the words in this charter unless another implication is required “Minister” means
the minister in charge of the subject of local government in the cabinet of the ministers in provincial council
and after dissolving of the provincial council, the governor of the Uva Province “Local Government
Institution” means “A Municipal Council”, “An urban council”, or “A Pradeshiya Sabha”. The “chief
executive” means “the mayor of a Municipal Council”, “the chairman of an urban council” or else “a
Pradeshiya Sabha”. “Member” means the deputy mayor, and the members of the Municipal Council and
vice chairman or member of an urban council or Pradeshiya Sabha. “Relevant rule or law” means the
Municiapl ordinance or the urban council ordinance or the Pradeshiya Sabha ordinance as relevant according
to the circumstances.
12. If any implication or discrepancy offers in respect of means of words in Sinhala, Tamil or
English of this charter the Sinhala clause shall be enforced.
04 - 709
Interpretation
In case of
implication or
discrepancy of
words the Sinhala
clause shall be
enforced.