

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 15.00 Postage : Rs. 6.75
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
VALUE ADDED  TAX  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  7  OF  2003
[Certified on 27th February, 2003]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 28, 2003

<!-- page 2 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20031
L. D. — O. 89/2002
[Certified on 27th February, 2003]
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  VALUE  ADDED  TAX  ACT , NO . 14 OF  2002
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the V alue Added Tax
(Amendment) Act No. 7 of 2003.
2. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended in subsection(3) of that section as follows :—
(1) in the first proviso to that subsection—
(a) in paragraph (b) of that proviso by the
substitution for the words “any fabric imported
by any person, for the purpose of manufacture
of garments for export”, of the words “any
fabric imported by any person for the purpose
of manufacture of garments for export” ;
(b) in paragraph (e) of that proviso by the
substitution for the words “any ship;”, of the
words “any ship imported on or before
December 31, 2002 :” ;
(2) in the second proviso to that subsection—
(a) in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of that
proviso by the substitution for the word and
figure “subsection (6)”, of the word and figure
“subsection (7) ” ;
(b) by the substitution for the words from “subject
to the furnishing of a bank guarantee”, to the
end of that proviso of the following :—
“(c) any ship imported on or after January
1, 2003, for a period upto thirty six
2—H 017469— 6,650 (12/2002)
Short title.
Amendment of
section 2 of Act
No. 14 of 2002.

<!-- page 3 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20032
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
enactment.
months, from the date of such import
and such deferred amount shall be
settled in quarterly installments before
the expiration of such period of thirty
six months.
The deferment of the payment of tax shall be subject to a
furnishing of a bank guarantee or a corporate gurantee which
covers the amount of tax due on the goods imported, received
or purchased. In the case of such deferment under paragraph
(b) no gurantee shall be required where such goods have been
imported by a Government institution to be re-exported within
one month from the date of importation.”.
3. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section, by
the substitution, for the words and figures “registered under
subsection (2) of section 77”, of the words and figures
“registered under subsection (2) of section 80”.
4. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words and figures “registered under subsection (2) of
section 77”, of the words and figures “registered under
subsection (2) of section 80”.
5. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “Any valid tax invoice
issued under the Goods and Services Tax Act, No.
34 of 1996 prior to August 1, 2002”, of the words
and figures “Any tax invoice not issued within the
period specified in subsection (1) and which does
not conform to the provisions of subsection (2) shall
not be a valid tax invoice. Any valid tax invoice
issued under the Goods and Services Tax Act, No.
34 of 1996 prior to August 1, 2002 or thereafter”;
Amendment of
section 11 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20033
(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “treated as a tax invoice.”, of the words
“treated as a tax invoice under this Act.”.;
(3) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “purposes of this Act.”, of the words —
“purposes of this Act :
Provided however a tax invoice shall be issued
by such registered person who makes such taxable
supply to any Government institution, Provincial
Council, Local Government institution, or any public
corporation, for any taxable supply made to such
institution, Council or such corporation, as the case
may be, whether or not such institution, Council or
corporation is registered under this Act.”.
6. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (12) of that section, by the substitution
for the word and figure “subsection (9)”, of the word and
figure “subsection (10)”.
7. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in the proviso to subsection (1) of that section, by
the substitution for the words and figures “Law No.
4 of 1978”, of the words and figures “Law No. 4 of
1978 or by any other garment manufacturer who
manufactures garments for export under the
supervision of the Department of Customs”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after the proviso to
subsection (1) of that section of the following :—
“Provided further that no other tax or levy including
any duty under the Customs Ordinance shall be
charged or collected on such sale of garments, where
the amount specified in the preceding proviso has
been paid on such sale.”;
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20034
(3) in subsection (5) of that section —
(a) in paragraph (b) of the first proviso to that
subsection, by the substitution for the word
and figure “subsection (6)”, of the word and
figure “subsection (7)”;
(b) in the second proviso to that subsection, by
the substitution for the words “shall not be
refunded.”, of the words  and figures“shall not
be refunded but such input tax including any
excess input tax as at July 31, 2002, under the
Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
shall be carried forward.”;
(4) in subsection (6) of that section —
(a) by the repeal of paragraphs (iii) and (iv) of
that subsection and the substitution therefore
of the following :—
“(iii) if the supply of goods or services
received is not supported by —
(a) a valid tax invoice ; or
(b) a customs goods declaration or
other authenticated document
issued by the Director-General of
Customs under this Act or under
the Goods and Services Tax Act,
No. 34 of 1996,
and received within twelve months from the
end of the relevant taxable period in respect
of which such tax invoice was issued or from
the date of importation of goods, as the case
may be;

<!-- page 6 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20035
(iv) if the input  tax on such tax invoice
or customs goods declaration, as
the case may be, has not been
deducted from the output tax
for any taxable period ending
before the lapse of six months
from the last day of the taxable
period in which such tax invoice
or customs goods declaration was
received :”;
(b) by the insertion immediately after the first
proviso to subsection (6) of that section of the
following proviso :—
“Provided further, where input tax
disallowed in respect of any motor vehicle
referred to in paragraph (i) may be allowed up
to a limit of fifty percent of such input tax for
any taxable period commencing on or after
January 1, 2003, subject to the provisions of
subsection (3), where such vehicle is partly or
wholly used in any taxable activity.”;
(5) in subsection (7) of that section, by the substitution
for the word and figure “subsection (5)”, of the word
and figure “subsection (6)”;
(6) in paragraph (b) of subsection (8) of that section, by
the substitution for the word and figure
“subsection (6)”, of the words and figures
“subsection (7) or subsection (6) of section 22 of
the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996.”.

<!-- page 7 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20036
8. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted
immediately after Chapter III and shall have effect as Chapter
III
A  of the principal enactment :—
“CHAPTER IIIA
IMPOSITION  OF  V ALUE  ADDED  TAX  ON  THE  SUPPLY  OF  FINANCIAL
SERVICES  BY  SPECIFIED  INSTITUTIONS
25A . (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter I, II, III and item (xi) of the First
Schedule to this Act, a V alue Added Tax
(hereinafter in this Chapter referred to as “the
tax”) shall be charged in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter with effect from
January 1, 2003, on the supply of financial
services in Sri Lanka, made by any specified
institution which carries on a business of
supplying such financial services.
(2) Every specified institution, carrying on
the business of supplying any financial service
in Sri Lanka, shall be required to be registered
where the value of such supply for a period of
three months exceeds five hundred thousand
rupees or for a period of twelve months one
million eight hundred thousand rupees, as the
case may be.
(3) Every specified institution, required to
be registered under subsection (2), shall make
an application for registration in the specified
form to the Commissioner-General not later than
ten days from the date of commencement of this
Act :
Provided however any institution registered
under this Act and which is a specified
institution within the meaning of this Chapter,
shall be deemed for all purposes to be a
registered specified institution.
Insertion of new
Chapter IIIA  in the
principal
enactment.
Charge of
value added
tax on the
supply of
financial
services by
specified
institutions.

<!-- page 8 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20037
(4) The Commissioner-General shall upon
such registration issue, to such registered
specified institution —
(a) a tax registration number ; and
(b) a certificate of registration :
Provided however any institution deemed to
be registered under this Chapter, shall not be
issued with a tax registration number and a
certificate of registration, under this Chapter.
25B . The taxable period of every registered
specified institution  shall be one month and a
return in the form specified shall be furnished
for each month before the end of the following
month.
25
C . (1) Every registered specified institution
under this Chapter shall be liable to tax for each
taxable period on its total value addition of such
institution which includes the net profits or loss,
as the case may be, before payament of income
tax on such profit computed in accordance with
accepted accounting standards, subject to an
adjustment for economic depreciation,
determined by the Minister having regard to the
interest of economy by order published in the
Gazette, and the emoluments payable to all the
employees of such institution :
Provided however where the amount of
profits for each taxable period cannot be
accurately ascertained, such amount may be
estimated on the basis of available information.
The estimated amounts shall be adjusted to
reflect the actual amount on half yearly basis.
Emoluments paid to all the employees shall
include—
(a) in the case of “specified employees”
under Chapter XIV of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 38 of 2000, the gross
Monthly
taxable period.
Calculation of
tax.

<!-- page 9 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20038
remuneration payable to such employees
and reflected in the pay sheet maintained
under paragraph (a) of section 110 of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000; and
(b) in the case of an employee other than a
“specified employee” the gross
remuneration paid to such employee
reflected in the pay sheet maintained
under subsection (2).
(2) Every registered specified institution
shall maintain a pay sheet in respect every
employee, other than a specified employee, in
the manner set out by the Commissioner-
General under section 110 of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 38 of 2000.
(3) The amount of tax payable for each month
shall be ten percentum of the value additions
specified in subsection (1).
25
D . Where any registered specified
institution has paid any tax under any other
provision of this Act, other than this Chapter, a
tax credit shall be allowed on an amount equal
to such tax paid against the tax payable under
this Chapter, where in the opinion of the
Commissioner-General there is no material
difference in the recognition of receipts of such
institution for the calculation of profits for the
purposes of this Chapter and for the purposes
of the calculation of taxable supplies under any
other provisions of this Act :
Provided however, only fifty percentum of
any such tax paid under any other provision of
this Act other than under this Chapter, in relation
to tax calculated as provided in section 22 at
the standard rate shall be deducted against the
tax payable under this Chapter.
Tax credit.

<!-- page 10 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 20039
25E. The provisions of Chapters IV to XVI
shall, mutatis mutandis, be applicable in respect
of the tax charged under this Chapter.
25F. For the purposes of this Chapter —
supply of financial services means —
(a) the operation of any current, deposit or
savings account;
(b) the exchange of currency ;
(c) the issue, payment, collection or transfer
of ownership of any note, order for
payment, cheque or letter of credit ;
(d) the issue, allotment, transfer of ownership,
drawing, acceptance or endorsement of
any debt. security, being any interest in
or right to be paid money owing by any
person ;
(e) the issue, allotment, transfer of ownership
of any equity security or a participatory
security ;
(f) underwriting or sub-underwriting the
issue of any equity security, debt security
or participatory security ;
(g) the provision of any loan, advance or
credit;
(h) the provision —
(a) of the facility of instalment credit
finance in a hire purchase
conditional sale or credit sale
agreement for which facility a
separate charge is made and
disclosed to the person to whom the
supply is made ;
Chapters IV to
XVI to be
applicable to
registered
specified
institutions
under this
Chapter.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 11 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200310
Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 27 of the
principal
enactment.
(b) goods under any hire purchase
agreement or conditional sale or
hire purchase agreement while have
been used in Sri Lanka for a period
not less than twelve months as at
the date of such agreement ;
specified institution means —
(a) a licenced commercial bank within the
meaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988;
(b) a finance company registered under the
Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988 ;
(c) a licenced specialized bank within the
meaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988. ’.
9. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section. as follows :—
(1) in paragraph (b) of that subsection by the substitution
for the words “the assessment has been made has
not been charged” of the words “the assessment has
been made has not been charged”;
(2) in the proviso to that subsection by the substitution
for the words “default of” of the words “default
from”.
10. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition immediately after subsection (2) of
that section of the following subsection :—
(3) Where any penalty payable under this section is
outstanding on November 6, 2002—
(a) such penalty shall be waived in full where the tax
payable in default has been fully paid on or before
November 6, 2002;

<!-- page 12 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200311
(b) where a portion of the tax in default has been paid
on or before November 6, 2002, such penalty
referable to the amount of the tax in default paid
shall be waived.
11. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “that taxable period”, to the end of that section
of the words “that taxable period”.
12. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “at any time” of the words “within a period of
five years from the end of the taxable period to which the
assessment relates.
For the purposes of this Chapter any notice of assessment
may refer to one or more taxable periods.”.
13. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the second proviso to subsection (8) of that
section, by the substitution for the words “three years”, of the
words “two years”.
14. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
of that section ; and
(2) by the addition immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1) of that section of the following
subsection :—
“(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other law, an appeal to the Board of Review
under subsection (1) shall be determined by the
Board within a period of two years from the date of
commencement of the hearing of such appeal by the
Board.”.
Amendment of
section 35 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 34 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 33 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 13 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200312
15. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 48 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 48A  of the enactment :—
48A . No proceedings shall be instituted or
any action pending for the recovery of tax or
any other action taken, for the recovery of tax
shall be proceeded with, under this Chapter
where a period of five years has lapsed after
three months from the date of default of such
tax.”.
16. Section 58 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “the taxable period”, of the words “a taxable
period, within three years from the end of such taxable period”.
17. Section 67 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition immediately after paragraph (a) of
that section of the following paragraph :—
“(aa) fails to apply for registration as required under
section 25
A ; or”.
18. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 75 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 75A  of that enactment :—
75A . The Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister may, from time to time, issue guide
lines in respect of any matter, he considers
appropriate for the proper implementation of the
provisions of this Act.”.
19. Section 80 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of
subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of that subsection and the
substitution therefore of the following :—
“(ii) under section 64 ; and”.
Insertion of new
section 48A  in the
principal
enactment.
“Secretary to
issue guide
lines.
Amendment of
section 80 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 75
A  in the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 67 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 58 of the
principal
enactment.
“Time limit
for the
recovery of
the tax in
default.

<!-- page 14 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200313
20. Section 83 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in the definition of the expression “Deputy
Commissioner” by the substitution for the words “Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue” of the words “Deputy
Commissioner of Inland Revenue”;
(2) by the substitution for the definition of the expression
of “goods” of the following :—
“goods” means all kinds of movable or immovable
property but does not include —
(a) money;
(b) computer software made to customers special
requirements either as unique programme or
adaptation for standard programme, inter
company information data and accounts,
enhancement and update of existing specific
programmes, enhancement and update of
existing normalized programmes supplied
under contractual obligation to customers who
have bought the original programme or where
the value of contents separately identifiable
in a software such vale of contents ;”;
(3) in the definition of the expression “taxable period”
by the repeal of subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a)
and the substitution therefor of the following :—
“(iv) where any person has commenced a business
or started a project and undertakes to comply
with the requirements of subsection (7) of
section 22 under this Act or subsection (6) of
section 22 of the Goods and Services Tax Act,
No. 34 of 1996;”.
Amendment of
section 83 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 15 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200314
21. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (h) of item (xi) of that
Schedule and the substitution therefore of the
following :—
“(h) the provision —
(a) of the facility of instalment credit
finance in a hire purchase conditional
sale or credit sale agreement for which
facility a separate charge is made and
disclosed to the person to whom the
supply is made ;
(b) of goods under any hire purchase
agreement or conditional sale
agreement which have been used in Sri
Lanka for a period not less than twelve
months as at the date of such
agreement ;”;
(2) in item (xiii) of that Schedule by the substitution for
the words “The import and and supply” of the words
“The import and supply”;
(3) in item (xiv) of that Schedule by the substitution for
the words “The import and supply of unused
postage” of the words “The import or supply of
unused postage”;
(4) by the substitution for item (xvi) of that Schedule of
the following :—
(xvi) The import of goods by any organisation
approved by the Minister, where he is
satisfied that such goods are gifts from
persons or organisaitons abroad or the
supply of goods directly funded by any
foreign organisaiton for the relief of sudden
distress caused by natural or human
disasters ;
Amendment of the
first Schedule to
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 16 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200315
(5) by the repeal of item (xxvi) of that Schedule.
22. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended as follows :—
(1) in item (ix) of that Schedule by the substitution for
the words “and lentils;”, of the words “and dhall”;
(2) in item (xii) of that Schedule by the substitution for
the words “supply or import of patrol, diesel, fuel
liquefied petroleum gas” of the words “supply or
import of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum
gas;”;
(3) by the repeal of item (xviii) of that Schedule and the
substitution therefore of the following :—
(xviii)supply of finance leasing facilities by a
person registered under  the Finance leasing
Act, No. 56 of 2000, other than any receipt
of an advance payment on account of the
asset to be given on lease or in relation to
such leasing transaction or any payment for
the early settlement of the amount payable
under the lease agreement which exceeds
ten percentum of the total agreement value;
(4) by the addition immediately after item (xxi) of that
Schedule of the following new items :—
“(xxii)the supply of services by professional
conference organizers, registered with the
Sri Lanka Convention Burau in organizing
seminars or other events ;
(xxiii)the supply or import of textiles and
handloom products;
(xxiv) the supply or import of ships ;
Amendment of the
second Schedule
to the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 17 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200316
(xxv) the supply or import of any jewellery ;
(xxvi) the supply or import of maize ;
(xxvii) the supply or import of machinery, medical
and surgical instruments, apparatus or
accessories including medical and dental
equipment, ambulances for the provision
of health services and surgical dressings.”.
(xxviii) the supply, lease or rent of residential
accommodation other than supplies
specified in the First Schedule ;
(xxix) the supply of all health care services
provided by medical institutions other than
supplies specified in the First Schedule ;
(xxx) the supply of land and improvements.
23. The –
(1) amendment made to seciton 2, the insertion of a new
Chapter III
A , amendments made to sections 33, 34,
35 and the insertion of section 48A , the amendment
made to section 58, the insertion of section 75A  and
the amendment to the Second Schedule to the
principal enactment by section 2, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 22 (3) and 22 (4) of this Act, shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into force on January
1, 2003 ;
(2) amendments made to sections 11, 14, 20, 21, 22, 26,
28, 80, 83 of the First Schedule and the Second
Schedule to the principal enactment by sections 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 19, 19(1), 21, 22(1), and 22(2) of
this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have
come into force on August, 1, 2002 ;
Retrospective
effect.

<!-- page 18 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200317
(3) amendment made to section 27 of the principal
enactment by section 10 of this Act shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into force on
November 6, 2002.
24. Where any person who collects the tax as provided
for in this Act, during the period commencing on January 1,
2003 upto the date of commencement of this Act, such person
shall be deemed to have acted with due authority and such
collection shall be deemed for all purposes to have been, and
to be, validly made and is hereby indemnified against all
actions, civil or criminal, in respect of such collection.”
25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil text of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Validation.

<!-- page 19 -->

V alue Added Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 200318
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.