

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.04.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2277$58 - 2022 wfm%a,a ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'04'29
No.  2277/58  -  fridAy ,   April   29,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-   G 36707 — 08  (04/2022)
Government Notifications
MINUTE  ON  THE  SRI  LANKA  AGRICULTURAL  SERVICE
8th Amendment
THE Service Minute of the Sri lanka Agricultural Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No.1880/26 dated 19 th 
September 2014 of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri lanka as amended by the gazettes extraordinary mentioned in 
part i below is amended as following part ii. The other terms and conditions therein remain unchanged.
By order of the public Service Commission,
M.A.B. DAyA SenArAth,
Secretary,
public Service Commission. 
27th  April, 2022.
Part I
Amendment No. 01 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 1971/17 dated 15th  of June 2016 
Amendment No. 02 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 2032/33 dated 17th of August 2017 
Amendment No. 03 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 2146/22 dated 22nd of October 2019 
Amendment No. 04 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 2162/10 dated 10th of february 2020 
Amendment No. 05 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 2165/14 dated 03rd of March 2020 
Amendment No. 06 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 2234/12 dated 29th of June 2021 
Amendment No. 07 - Gazettes Extraordinary No. 2264/11 dated 26th of January 2022

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.04.2022
2A
Part II
7.2.2.5.  Other:-
No.(iii) will be removed. Other matters remain unchanged.
 7.2.4.1. The written competitive examination pertaining to the recruitment under the open stream shall consist of two parts. 
The particulars of such examination are mentioned in the first Appendix. 
 7.2.4.4.  The Note stated under this section will be amended as follows.
Note : Of the applicants who obtained 40% of the marks or more for each question paper, a number not more than 
twice the number of vacancies will be called for the interview based on the order of the marks commencing from 
the maximum of total marks obtained by them for question papers of the first and second parts of the examination. 
After verifying the qualifications by the Board of Interview, the applicants who prove
  their qualifications will be 
recruited to the vacancies based on the order of the maximum total marks obtained by them for all the question 
papers of the first and second parts of the examination. 
The following “
first Appendix” will be substituted in place of the existing “first Appendix” 
First Appendix
Syllabus of the Written Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural 
Service under open stream
01. Scheme of Examination and Syllabus :
The Common Competitive Examination for filling up of vacancies in Grade III of the Executive Service Category is
applicable to this examination. The Commissioner General of Examinations will take action to conduct this exam -
ination annually. Only the candidates who obtain more than 40% of marks for each paper and aggregate marks of
100 or more for the 
first part (Common part) of that competitive examination will be called for the Second part of
the examination above.
(a) First Part (Common Part) of the Common Competitive Examination for filling up of vacancies in Grade
III of the Executive Service Category
(I) Summary
Question Paper Duration Nature of the Question Paper
intelligence Test 1 ½ Hours 100 marks. Shall consist of multiple-choice questions and/or 
short answer type questions. The pass mark is 40.
Comprehension 02 Hours 100 marks. Shall consist of multiple-choice questions and/or 
short answer type questions. The pass mark is 40.
(II) Syllabus
intelligence Test
Shall consist of multiple-choice questions to test the candidate’s skills in reasoning, substitution, interpretation, 
relevance awareness, conversion, problem solving, understanding of cause & effect relationships, prediction, 
information organization, pattern identification and adherence to instructions.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.04.2022
3A
Comprehension
Shall consist of objective type questions to test the candidate’s ability in comprehension and skills in communication, 
summarization, analyzing and creativity.
 (b)  Second Part of the Common Competitive Examination for filling up of vacancies in Grade III of the Executive 
Service Category (Specific Part for the recruitment to the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service)
(I) Summary
Question Paper Duration Nature of the Question Paper
Testing the subject related knowledge
(Three question papers will be given 
under the streams of Agricultural 
research, Agricultural development 
and Agricultural Economics)
02 Hours 100 marks. The pass mark is 40.
This is a written aptitude test conducted to test the applicant’s 
knowledge in the specified subject area. Each applicant 
should answer the question papers selected as per the post or 
posts they apply for. This question paper shall consist of short 
answer type questions and multiple-choice questions. These 
question papers will be set with more tendency to check the 
theoretical knowledge in the relevant field.
(II) Syllabus 
Syllabuses in respect of each post are mentioned below.
1. Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Research: 
Applicants shall answer only one of the two parts referred to in (A) and (B) below, as they wish.
Part (A) 
 01. Agricultural Botany: 
  Fundamentals of crop classification, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology.
 02. Genetics and Plant Breeding: 
  Mendelian law, population genetics, mutation molecular genetics, cytogenetic, quantitative genetics, fundamentals 
of plant breeding, genetic resources protection and biodiversity, pollination behaviour and breeding concepts, incom-
patibility, mass and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods and current trends. 
 03. Plant Pathology: 
  Types of pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant to infections, infective methods and fundamentals of 
their management, current trends in plant pathology and disease management, diagnostic techniques, symptomatology, 
Koch’s postulate application, modern techniques of diagnosis (EliSA) and current trends. 
 04. Fundamentals of Entomology:
  Fundamentals of classification of animals, structural characteristics, biological information and damage, economic 
significance of pest damage, estimation of insect population and damage.
 05. Seed Technology: 
  Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy, germination, viability, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed production, 
seed certification and seed storage. 
 06. Tissue Culture: 
  Theories, facilities and requirements for tissue culture, media, applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast culture, 
mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic transformations, cryopreservation

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.04.2022
4A
07. Agricultural Chemistry:
fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry 
and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications 
of analytical chemistry in agriculture
Or
Part (B)
 01. Agronomy:
  Agroclimatology, ecology, land development, tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, measurement of 
crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control, principles of irrigation 
systems, principles of crop soil and water relationship.
 02. Crop Science:
  Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops and other field crops, growth, methods of propagation, 
methods of planting, physical chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation, establishment and management 
of scientific pastures, fundamentals of timber and fruit production.
 03.  Soil Science:
  Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil, soil problems relating to cropping, fertility management 
of soil, watershed management, plant nutrition, fundamentals of plant classification.
 04. Genetics and Plant Breeding:
  fundamentals, Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetic, fundamentals of plant 
breeding, genetic resources protection and biodiversity.
 05.  Plant Pathology: 
  plant infections, response of plants to infections, biological control, modern trends in disease management. 
 06.  Fundamentals of Entomology: 
  indicated under sub-paragraph 04 of question paper (A).
 07.  Field research principles and statistical principles and knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere 
in Sri Lanka 
 08. Entomology: 
  Economically significant insects in agriculture, their classification, internal and external features, structure of differ-
ent systems and their functions, pest management, significance of pest damage, pest identification, their damage and 
control, integrated pest management. 
 09. Microbiology: 
  Microorganisms and agricultural environment, biotechnology applications in agriculture, soil-living biomass and their 
effects on agricultural practices. 
 10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics:
  Basic knowledge in statistics, agricultural research, analysis of planning, obtaining and analysis of data. 
  Note: it will be compulsory for all the applicants who apply for the post of Assistant director of Agriculture (Agricultural 
research) through Open recruitment to answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to in (A) or (B) above.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.04.2022
5A
II.  Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Development
 01. General Agriculture:
  Climatic zones of Sri lanka, land development, land preparation and equipment, crop establishment and machinery 
required for the purpose, soil and soil fertility, nursery and nursery management, planting material, pest control, plant 
protection, appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods, integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-irrigation 
systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery, post-harvest losses, processing of farm products, suitable vegetables 
for cultivation in specific areas, factors considered in selecting fruits, pulses and cereals, integrated pest management, 
integrated plant nutrition systems, plant protection Act, Soil Conservation Act.
 02. Crop Production: 
  Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, 
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control, 
irrigation, agronomy, principles of crop and water relationship. 
 03. Field Crops: 
  introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and varieties, growth physiology, physiological principles of 
yield determination, rice agronomy, crop management and production, highland cereals, legumes, tuber crops and 
other important field crops (tobacco, onion, fibre and oil crops). 
 04. Crop Management: 
  intercropping, harvesting and processing. 
 05. Horticultural Crop Production: 
  fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic factors, origin and distribution, ecological requirements, 
cultural practices, application of modern techniques.
 06. Fruit, vegetable and flower production: 
  Nursery management, orchard management, modern techniques in crop establishment and culture, fruit and vegetable 
crop improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems, post-harvest losses, prevention of post-harvest losses 
of fruits and vegetables, biotechnology, local and export markets for fruits and vegetables, present constraints and 
future strategies, requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based cropping systems, marketing, floriculture, 
propagation techniques, cultural practices, quality parameters, principles of landscape gardening. 
 07. Agricultural Extension and Training:
  introduction of agricultural extension and objectives, agricultural development and extension, adaptation and diffusion 
of innovations, communication, teaching methods of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri lanka, relation 
between research and extension, preparation of extension programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated 
with agricultural extension in Sri lanka, adult education, training procedure, various techniques used in identifying 
training requirements, arrangement of lessons, evaluation of training, use of audio-visual devices for training. 
 08. Seed Technology: 
  Seed physiology, structure, morphology, germination, viability, seed testing, tests on viability and purity, stages of 
seed production, seed certification, and seed storage.
 09. Apiculture: 
  Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes, capturing of bee colonies, establishment, dividing, pests and 
diseases in a bee colony.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 29.04.2022
6A
III. Question paper for the stream of Agricultural Economics 
 01. Agricultural Production / Economics and Farm Management:
  importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts, production function, forms of production 
functions, production surfaces, iso-quant, iso-clines, iso-revenue lines, principles of resources combination and cost 
minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution and income effects, flexibility and diversification of 
adjustments of production to meet risk and uncertainty in agriculture, price theory relating to pricing of agricultural 
products, evaluation of crop and livestock combination, farm site and returns to scale, importance of family farms 
and principles of comparative advantage, importance of records in determining the strong and weak points in the farm 
mechanization and incorporation of this information in optimization models. 
 02. Agricultural Marketing: 
  General principles of marketing, relative importance of such production and marketing, institutions dealing with 
marketing in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing 
of agricultural products in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving marketing efficiency. 
 03. Land Economics:
  Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand and supply for lands in Sri lanka, land use planning in Sri lanka, 
importance of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri lanka.
EOG 04 - 0213
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.