

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
991
991
wxl 1"714 - 2011 cQ,s ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'07'08
No. 1,714 – FRIDAY, JULY 08, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 994
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 997
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th July, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st July,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
992
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
993
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
994
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th of August,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
16th June, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division application are called applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Thalawa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Nuwaragampalatha Division   General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Eppawala   Anuradhapura.
Division
07–184
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
APPLICA TIONS are invited from qualified persons for the
V acancies in the posts Technical Officer (Civil/Mechanical) existing
in the Department of Technical Education and Training.
1. (i) Application procedure :
According to the following format of the application, it
should be prepared in the "A4" paper using both sides
duly filled in and should be sent by registered post to the
"Director General, Department of Technical Education
and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo
10", to reach before 08.08.2011. "Application for the
post of Technical Officer" should be clearly mentioned
on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
(ii) Applications will not be entertained after the closing
date. Applicants are hereby advised to send their
applications in time to avoid the possibility of postal
delay.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
995
(iii) Candidature will be abolished, if any incorrect information
being detected before the recruitment, if any incorrect
information detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to dismissal from the service.
(iv) Applications received by the Department of Technical
Education and Training will not be acknowledged.
Applicants will be rejected if the applicants do not have
the required qualifications or the application form is
improperly filled.
(v) Copies of following documents, certified by you, should
be attached with the application :
1. Certificate of registration of birth ;
2. Educational Certificates ;
3. Certificates of professional qualifications,
memberships, etc.
4. Certificates of service.
2. Educational qualifications.– Should pass three subjects in the
G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Science stream including Physics/
Chemistry ; and
Pass the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) in six subjects not more than
2 sittings with 04 credit passes in Language or literature,
Mathematics, Science and one any other subject.
3. Vocational qualifications.– Applicants should possess one of
the following qualifications related to Civil or Mechanical field :
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or Ampara Hardy Institute ; or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering Science awarded by
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority ;
or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education ; or
(iv) T echnology Diploma awarded by the Open University
of Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successfully completed the part I of the Engineering
Examination, held by Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
or
(vi) Information derived from the Ministry of Higher
Education and from the Institutions, issuing the above
Technology Certificates and any other Technological
qualifications equivalent to the above Technological
qualifications, which should be recognized by the Sri
Lanka Technological Service Board.
4. Service Experience. – Not less than 02 years relevant field
experience in an Institution recognized by the Government of Sri
Lanka.
5. Other qualifications. – Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
physically fit and possess a good moral character.
6. Salary Scale.– Salary scale in MN-3-2006A, Rs. 15,005 - 4 x
180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 according to the Pubic
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv).
7. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more than
45 years at the date of closing of the application. (Age limit not
applicable for the staff in the Government/Local Government
service).
8. Procedure of recruitment.– Qualified applicants should appear
for a written competitive examination, conduct by the Director
General of the Department of Technical Education and Training
and the applicants who got the highest marks will be called for
interview and selected. At the interview marks will not be assigned
but only the qualifications will be checked. Minimum 40% marks
should be obtained in each question paper to qualify for the
interview. Subject and relevant curriculum of the written examination
is appended below.
Question Subject Duration Field to be covered
Paper
No.
01 Knowledge 02 hours Multiple choice
affiliated to questions relevant to
the subject construction and/or
Maintenance field and
structural questions
which able to be answered
by selecting the questions
02 General 01 hour Multiple choice
Knowledge questions, to examine the
and General candidates' knowledge in
Intelligence present social, economic,
political situation and
historical knowledge,
capability of
understanding, logically
thinking, discernment
comprehension, ability to
make prompt decisions,
analysis of statistical and
analogical problems,
langauge phrases, utilize
and read, understand
charts pictures and
graphs.
9. Implementation of official language policy .– All the officers
recruited in the medium of the official language after 01.07.2007,
should get the proficiency in the other official language within 05
years of joining the service as per Public Administration Circular
No. 07/2007.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
996
10. Conditions for the recruitment to the service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable should
contribute to the widows and orphans/widowers and
orphans pension fund.
(ii) Selected candidates should adhere to the provisions in
scheme of recruitment of relevant post, provisions in
Establishment Code. Financial Regulations and to the
rules and regulations issued by the state or line Ministry
or Director General of the Department of Technical
Education and Training.
(iii) General Conditions and provisions, prescribed in the
procedural regulations published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009, by the
Public Service Commission will be entitled.
11. Applicants in the Government and Local Government Service
should forward their application forms through the Head of the
respective department.
12. Director General of the Department of Technical Education
and Training reserves the right, not to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
Dr. H. C
HITHRAL AMBAWATTE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and
Training.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 01,
22nd June, 2011.
For office use
APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICA TION FORM FOR THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Field applied for : Civil – 1 Mechanical – 2
Language medium of the examination : Sinhala 1,
Tamil 2, English 3
01. (i) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name identified with the initials :–––––––––––.
02. Contact details :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :–––––––––––.
(iii) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(iv) E-mail address :–––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or telephone number should be
intimated immediately)
03. Place and date of birth :–––––––––––.
04. Age at the closing date of application :–––––––––––.
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
06. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––.
07. (i) Sex : Male/female :–––––––––––.
(ii) Whether single/married/widow :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
09. V ocational qualifications :
Examination/ Y ear Subjects Results Name of the
Diploma offered Institution/University
10. Service experience :
Department/ Designation Nature of the Service
Institution Post period

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
997
11. Other qualifications :
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me are true and
correct. I am aware that my application will be rejected, if any
incorrect information being detected before the recruitment and if
any incorrect information detected after the recruitment, I will be
vacated from the post without any compensation.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
.........................................................................................................
(This portion is applicable only for the departmental staff and
trainees).
ATTESTATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT/
INSTITUTION
I hereby certify that the work and conduct of Mr./Mrs./Ms
....................... who is working/under training in the Ministry/
Department/Institution of ..................... as .................... and applied
for the Post of Technical Officer in the Department of Technical
Education and Training. He/She will be released/not released from
the post, once he/she is selected for the post applied for.
–––––––––––––,
Name and Signature of Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Official Seal :–––––––––––.
07–211
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
FIRST  AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATIONS  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF
THE  SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS  SERVICE  - 2011
FIRST and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for officers in Class
III of the Sri Lanka Accountants  Service will be held in  October
2011  in Town 1 Colombo and Town 2 Jaffna by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. Change of the town indicated in the
application to appear for the examination will not be allowed later.
The closing date of application for the Examination will be
05.08.2011. The Examination will be conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil
and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the
medium later.
02. A specimen application form to be used in applying for this
examination is appended at the end of this notification. All applicants
are advised to prepare their applications as per specimen given.
Application should be prepared only in A4 size paper and item 01
to 07 should be on page 1 and the rest on page 2. The form should
be completed by the applicant in his / her own hand writing. Further,
Name of the Examination given at the top should be written in
English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition
to Tamil in Tamil applications. Applications which do not conform
with the specimen application form and those received after the
closing date of applications and incomplete applications will be
rejected without prior notice. Those who wish to sit for both First
and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations should send two separate
applications specifying the examinations. Particulars given in the
top of the specimen application form  as the case may be, should be
mentioned accurately. Further, Two receipts obtained by marking
payments for two examinations should be affixed to both application
forms separately.
03. All applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (in the case of a Divisional Secretary) by
Registered Post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Palawatta, Battaramulla, to reach him on or before
05.08.2011. The name of the examination should be written on the
top left corner of the envelope containing the application. Retaining
a copy of the application would be useful. Examination will be
conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil and English media and no candidate
will be permitted to change the language medium applied for. New
officers for the purpose of official Language policy may prepare
their applications in the official Language or in Tamil or English in
accordance with the language medium they were recruited.
04. An Admission card together with a copy of the time table of
the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after admission cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission Card and Time Table 2 or 3
days before the examination, he/she should notify this fact in writing
immediately to the Department of examinations. It would be useful
if you could send a certified photocopy of the application retained
by you together with the receipt for the payment of cash,
Registration Receipt and your letter of request with the fax number,
if outside Colombo, to send your Admission Card  :–
(i) Name of Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Full name of the applicant  :–––––––––.
(iii) Complete Address  :–––––––––.
(iv) Post Office at which the  application was posted  :–––––.
Registered No and Date  :–––––––––.
05. Identify.– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents only will be accepted :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A Valid Passport.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
998
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the right
to cancel or reject the candidature of the candidate who fails to
produce any of the documents mentioned.
06. Examination Fees .– Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay examination fees on the basis set out below :–
Examination Fee :
Rs. cts.
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(b) For the whole examination for each 400 0
subsequent sitting
(c) Per subject 150 0
The relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations No.
2003.02.13 at any Division at Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful. Those who apply for both examinations
should affix two receipts obtained by making payments for both
examinations separately.
07. These examinations are conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to
abide by the rules and regulations laid down by him in connection
with this examination. Rules and regulations published in Part I(IIA)
of this Gazette for applicants for examinations are applicable to
this examination. On the first day of the examination, Admission
Card with the applicants authenticated signature should be handed
over to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom Admission Cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of examinations to enable them to sit for the examination.
Admission Cards will be issued to all the applicants who have
submitted applications and issuing an Admission Card to an
applicant should not be considered by him / her as  a qualification
to sit for examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
with the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and
planning.
10. Syllabuses related to the First and Second Efficiency Bar
Examinations are given below :–
Syllabus of the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Grade  III of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination consists of 4 question
papers of 3 hours on the following subjects :–
(1) Government Financial Procedures (Sub. No. – 01) –
100 marks ;
(2) Law and Management (Sub. No. – 02) – 100 marks ;
(3) Administration  (Sub. No. – 03) - 100 marks ;
(4) Report writing and presenting Information to
Management(Sub. No. – 04) -100 marks.
(b) Officers may take up the subjects of the First Efficiency
Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or separate
occasions if they so desire.
Applicants should score 40 marks for a pass in each paper
Syllabus :
(1)  Government Financial Regulations (Sub. No. 01)  :
Candidates will be tested on the application of Financial
Regulations and Treasure Circulars in Government
transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they
relate to revenue, expenditure, foreign aid, annual and
supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies,
tenders, imprests and advances, financial sanctions,
the State account, functional and economic
classifications, programme and performance budgeting,
functions of the Minister of Finance, The General
Treasury, the Ministry of planning, The Secretaries,
the Audit General and the Public Accounts Committee.
(2) Law and Management (Sub. No. 02)  :
Law : Definition of Law
Legal system of Sri Lanka
Judicial system of Sri Lanka
Law of Contract
Law of agency
Sale of goods
Hire purchase
Negotiable instruments
Guarantee of Securities
Insurance
Management :
Introduction to Management
Functions and skills of Managers
Planning process and setting organizational levels
                   Organizational structure
Human Resource Management
Performance evaluation
Promotion
Motivation
Leadership
Communication
Decision Making
Conflict resolution
Change Management/Conflicts Management/
Time Management
Quality cycle and Production and result
Management ethics and responsibilities
(3) Administration (Sub No. 03) :
Chapters of the Establishments Code VII,  IX, XI,
XII, XV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX,
XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,  XLVIII
Public Service Commission Rules and Procedure
V olume I- VI

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
999
(4) Report writing and presenting information to the
Management (Sub. No. 04) :
Importance of accuracy, of timeliness and perfection
of management  information
Dealing with reference information
Periodic and ad-hoc reports
Writing minutes of meeting and notes
Structure of management reports
Important results that should be highlighted
Interpretation of results
Suggesting variations
Use of statistical name system in data analysis
Comparison of performance
Use of ratios and percentages in management reports
Diagrammatic representation
Listening to professional talks and lectures
Reporting lectures through speech
Panel discussions
Seminar abilities
Delivering a speech
Syllabus of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers  of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service
1. The Second Efficiency Bar Examination consists of the
following subjects :–
(1) Management Accountancy (Sub. No. 05) - 100
marks ;
(2) Public Financial Management  (Sub. No. 06)  - 100
marks ;
 (3) Management and Organization (Sub. No. 07)  - 100
marks.
Officer can sit all prescribed subjects of the Second
Efficiency Bar Examination in one sitting or
separately if they so desire.
Applicants  are required to obtain 40% of marks for each
paper.
2. Syllabus:
(1) Management Accountancy (Sub. No. 05) – 3 hours
paper Answering all the questions is compulsory.
(Applicants are not allowed to select questions) :–
Control theory on accounting – feed back – open and
closed, Primary and applied primes, Types of ideal
standard costs, principles of performance standards
and their application, revision of standards, learning
cycle and determination of motivation, analysis of
variations and sub variations, analysis of significance,
presentation behavioral aspects of control accounting,
concepts of budgeting, administration of budgetary
control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets,
master and supplementary budgets, budget centres,
management participation, intervention and motivation
in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and
identification of the principle budget factor.
(2) Public Finance Management –  (Sub. No. 06) - 03
hours paper :–
Answering all the questions is compulsory.
(Applicants are not allowed to select questions).
Role of the Government Accountant.
      The Constitutional and Legal Framework of Public
Finance, Establishment Framework, Central
Government, State Coperations, Local Government
Institutions, Cooperative Movement etc..
Governance of the Parliament, Duties of the General
Treasury, The issues related to the control exercised
by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Estimate
Committee, Auditor General, State Finance Committee,
Consolidated Fund and the Parliament.
Financial cycle, Compilation of Planning Programmes,
Compilation of Budgetary Documents, Approval of
Funds, Accounting Activities, Reporting, Evaluation
and Auditing.
Project Appraisal, Utilisation of Service Quotations
and Statistical  Data Determination of the theory of
Payment and Expected value.  Cost Benefit Analysis,
Discounted Cash Flows, Internal Rate of Return,
Feasibility of Projects, Economics, Financial and
Management Aspects of Project  Compilation and
Appraisal, Successful Submission of Projects.
Techniques of compiling programmes, Use of Network
Analysing Methods,
Allocation of Resources, Issues Related to
Transportation, Replacement of assets in lieu of the
assets which are worn out as a result of use or with
the time and the assets which do not thus wear out
but become dormant with the time or after being used
for a certain period of time, Performance Budget,
Establishment and Utilisation of Fundamental
Methods, Evaluation of Performance, Determination
of Criteria, Units and Norms, Analysis of Criteria and
Performance.
Programme Budget, Programme Structure,
Classification according to Functions, Programme
activities, Expenditure Projects, Expenditure codes,
Economic and Functional Classification.
Financial control Systems, level of Responsibilities,
Internal Control and Financial Regulations. Internal
Auditing, Efficiency Auditing, Management Auditing,
Variable Analysis, Decision of compiling capital
Budget. Long term Planning and its importance,
Forecasting, Accuracy and Limitations, Risk Analysis,
Decision trees, Probability Factors.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
1000
Demand on Capital, Issues Related to Capital
Efficiency and Income estimation, Consideration of
risk Factors in Evaluation of Project Priorities, Payback
Determinants, Calculating Rate or Return, Net Present
V alue and DCF Yields, Impact of Taxation. Investment
Appraisal, Project Cost Control  and Post Audit.
Decision on Capacities, Product Mix, Production or
Purchase, Alternative  Methods of Manufacture,
Issues related to closing of Factories, Princing Policies
and Theory of Contribution, Impact of Customer
Demand, Demand Flexibility, Marketing Strategy,
Techniques of Performance Evaluation, Determinants
and Ratios of Profitability.
Cost Benefit Analysis, Management of Working
Capital.
Finance Control of Government Commercial
Enterprises, Budgeting, Management Reporting,
Interpretation of Financial Statement and the use of
Financial Ratios.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Accounting plan and its contents, Government
Reports and Public Enterprises.
3. Management and Organization – (Sub. No. 07) 03
hour paper
Answering all the questions is compulsory.
(Applicants are not allowed to  select questions)
Questions will be set to test the Candidate’s knowledge
on management and principles of organization, use of
these principles with regard to the problems and issues
and problems in the Public Sector and the knowledge
on new management strategies and techniques.
Model  Application  Form
FIRST AND SECOND  EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
FOR THE  OFFICERS IN THE SRI LANKA
ACCOUNTANT’S SERVICE – 2011
(For office use)
Should be forwarded to the Commissioner General of
Examinations through the Head of the Department by registered
post.
         Town Town  No.
·
* Town applied to sit for the Examination  and its Number
(Write the name of the Town in Block letters according to the para
01  of the gazette)
Medium of the Examination Applied Sinhalese -  2
(Medium applied will not T amil -  3
  be allowed to change   subsequently)    English -  4
(Put the relevant number in the cage)
The Efficiency Bar Examination Applied
      First      - 1               (Put the relevant  number in the cage )
      Second  - 2
(Refer the para 2 of the gazette. Applications should be submitted
separately for the two examinations.)
01. Name
1.1 Name with initials at the End :––––––––––.
(In English Block letters e.g. SUNIL, A.B)
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :
02. Official Address :––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
2.1 Official Address :––––––––––.
 (In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent :
––––––––––.
 (In English Block letters)
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1 (Put the relevant number in the cage)
Male    - 2
3.2 Date of Birth  :
Year :                        Month :               Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :                   Months :                Dates :
04.  Subjects offered under the Para 10 of the gazette (only  4 (i) or
4 (ii) relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examination Applied should
be completed in one application form)
4 (i) First Efficiency Bar :
Subject Subject No.
………………… ……………….
………………… ……………….
………………… ……………….
………………… ……………….

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.07.2011
1001
4 (ii) Second Efficiency Bar :
Subject Subject No.
………………… ……………….
………………… ……………….
………………… ……………….
………………… ……………….
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountant’s
Service :––––––––––.
(Date of assuming duties permanently should be mentioned)
06. Name of the work place (if it is a Divisional Secretariat, Name
of the said office) :––––––––––.
07. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time :
––––––––––.
08. If not, examination fees paid:
(i) Office, paid :––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt securely.)
10. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions taken
by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
examination.
–––––––––––––,
 Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the
Department, or officer authorized to sign on his / her behalf or his
/ her Provincial Head.
Attention of Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………………… who
is an officer working in my office  is known to me personally placed
his/her signature before me on ………………………
 –––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
 I Certify that
(i) The foregoing particulars were checked  and found  correct
and
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for this examination
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
 (Official frank should be placed)
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
07–251
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.