

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1872$33 - 2014 cQ,s ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'07'25
No.1872/33  - FRIDAY,  JULY  25,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15  OF  1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”),
the Institute has issued the Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organizations (including Non-
Governmental Organizations) with effect from 1 January, 2012, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting
and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995.
             By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
25
th July, 2014
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
2A
Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended
Practice
For
Not-for-Profit Organisations
(including Non-Governmental Organisations)
(SL SoRP – NPOs [including NGOs])

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
3A
Contents
1. Preface
2. Introduction
2.1 General
2.2 Legal Framework
3. Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
3.1 Key Definitions and concepts related to NPO
3.1.1 Definition of a NPO
3.1.2 Donations/Contributions, Grants, Membership Subscription
3.1.3 Donor Agreements
3.1.4 Restricted Funds
3.1.5 Unrestricted Funds
3.1.6 Accumulated Fund
3.1.7 Governing Body
3.2 Users and their Information Needs
3.3 Qualitative characteristics of useful financial information
3.4 The cost constraint on useful financial reporting
3.5 Underlying assumption
4. NPO Specific Provisions
5. Effective Date
   Appendix - Illustrative Financial Statements Structure

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
4A
1. Preface
1.1    The objective of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) in setting up the SL
SoRP for NPOs is to assist those who are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements, to
improve the quality of financial reporting by NPOs, thereby providing adequate information to the users of
the financial statements.  The intention is also to reduce the diversity that exists among NPOs in
accounting practice and presentation. It is recommended that all NPOs follow this SL SoRP in order that
their financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state of affairs of their organisations.
1.2   With full convergence to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) with effect from 1 January
2012, the existing SL SoRP for NPOs issued in 2005 which became operative from 1 April 2006 requires
revisions as it was based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLASs) applicable in 2006. Therefore, CA
Sri Lanka decided to revise the existing SL SoRP to be in line with IFRS based new Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards.
1.3   This SL SoRP is intended to apply to all NPOs operating in Sri Lanka, regardless of their size,  or
complexity.
1.4    It provides the basis for the preparation of accrual based financial statements to give a true and fair view.
1.5 NPOs  have to comply only with those standards, which  apply to them. NPOs may safely ignore the
standards dealing with matters, which do not apply to the activities of their own NPO.
1.6     All NPOs are required to comply with the requirements stipulated by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
(SLFRS Framework) to prepare and present their financial statements. SLFRS Framework comprises
full SLFRSs (comprehensive set of SLFRSs including IFRIC and SIC pronouncements) and SLFRS for
SMEs (Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Small and Medium – sized Entities). All NPOs with public
accountability should comply with full SLFRSs.
1.7     Additional specific provisions for NPOs which should be read in conjunction with the applicable set of Sri
Lanka Accounting Standards are given in Section 4 of this SL SoRP.
1.8    Each provision included in this SL SoRP should be considered in the context of its relevance and what is
material to any particular NPO.
* * * * * * * * * *

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
5A
2. Introduction
2.1 General
2.1.1 All over the world, Not-for-Profit Organisations (NPOs) play an important role in the socio-economic process
of the countries in which they operate. This is true not only in developing countries, but also in developed
countries. NPOs in Sri Lanka are no exception. These organisations are important players in both the
social and political spheres.
2.1.2 The first activities in Sri Lanka, similar to those of an NPO emerged during the British colonial period in the
late 19
th century. About 100 years later, with the macro changes in the country, a substantial expansion
of NPO presence in Sri Lanka took place. With the liberalization of the economy in late 1970s and the
consequent relaxation of foreign exchange regulations, trade and travel restrictions, there arose a
phenomenal increase in the number of foreign NGOs. With the increased flow of foreign assistance and
the expansion of community and rural development, a further proliferation of NGOs was observed in the
country.
2.2 Legal Framework
2.2.1 The magnitude of the funds channelled through these organisations creates considerable responsibility in
terms of follow up, monitoring and accountability. Transparency thus becomes an important issue in Sri
Lanka. Clear guidelines need to be provided to these organisations on how to conduct their affairs,
including accounting and reporting. It is also acknowledged however, that extensive regulation is not
necessarily fruitful, and that “too much” regulation might turn out to be equally as bad as “too little”,
considering the important role that these organisations play within society at large. The Sri Lanka Statement
of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations (including Non-Governmental Organisations)
has been designed within this broader framework.
2.2.2 The Voluntary Social Service Organisation Act No. 31 of 1980 (the "VSSO Act") requires all organisations,
which receive government grants or require visas for expatriate staff to register under this Act. NPOs may
also register as limited liability companies under the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, as Trusts under the
Trust Ordinance No. 17 of 1917, as Charities under the Inland Revenue Act No. 38 of 2000, as Approved
Charities under the Inland Revenue Act No. 4 of 1963 or the Inland Revenue Act No. 28 of 1979 or under
the Mutual Provident Societies Act No. 55 of 1949.  An NPO can also be formed by an Act of Parliament.
2.2.3 The "Volunt ary Social Service Organisations (Registration and Supervision) (Amendment) Act, . 8 of 1998",
was an amendment to the VSSO Act. This amendment allows for an Interim Board of Management to be
appointed to administer the affairs of an organisation in cases of fraud or misappropriation.
2.2.4 Subsequently, in 1999, a Presidential Circular was issued, calling all NGOs to re-register with the National
NGO Secretariat, and asking them to declare their sources of funding, annual expenditure and annual
budgets. Pre-requisite for re-registration includes clearance from the Ministries in charge of the subjects
of Defence, Foreign Affairs and Plan Implementation and the relevant line Ministry. NGOs conducting
activities in one District or at divisional levels also have to register with the applicable District or Divisional
Secretary.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
6A
3. Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
3.1 Key Definitions and Concepts related to NPO
3.1.1 Definition of a NPO (Not-for-Profit Organisation)
I.     A Not-for-Profit Organization is a corporation or an association that conducts business for the benefit of
the general public without shareholders and without a profit motive. They are also often referred to as
“Development Organisations”, “Private Voluntary Organisations”, “Civil Society Organisations” “Non-
Governmental Organisations”, “Non-Profit Organisations”, “Charities” and other similar terms.
II.    This SL SoRP has drawn on the following definition provided by the World Bank for the phrase Civil
Society, for the application of its contents:
“The World Bank uses the term Civil Society to refer to the wide array of non-governmental and non-profit
organisations that have a presence in public life, expressing the interests and values of their members or
others, based on ethical, cultural, political, scientific, religious or philanthropic considerations. Civil
Society Organisations (CSOs) therefore refer to a wide array of organisations: community groups, non-
governmental organisations (NGOs), labour unions, indigenous groups, charitable organisation, faith-
based organisations, professional associations, and foundations".
III.     Although various scholars have defined ‘non-governmental organizations’ in different ways, Act No. 31
of 1980, Voluntary Social Service Organization (Registration and Monitoring) Act has defined non-
governmental organizations in the following manner.
    Accordingly, any organization;
• that has been formed on a voluntary basis by a group of individuals and are of non-governmental
in nature,
• that depend on public contribution, charity, governmental aid and local and foreign donations in
performing its activities,
• that has as its main objective, providing aid and services for mentally handicapped or physically
disabled persons, the poor, orphans and the destitute and providing relief in times of natural
disaster
can be called a non-governmental organization.
IV. The common salient features of the vast variety of NPOs to which this SL SoRP would apply are:
(a) They are voluntary organisations, either local (to a particular area), national or international;
(b) They have formulated specific objective(s) to the benefit of the general society, a particular vulnerable
group of the society, or to particular identified interest or target groups;
(c) Their objectives are not profit oriented, unlike that of business entities;
(d) Profit may be generated in a NPO, but since there are no ownership interests, it is not distributed
to those providing the resources;
(e) They solicit and receive financial support for promotion of the organisation’s objective(s) or
purpose, either from individuals (or groups of individuals) in society, corporate entities,
governmental entities, international organisations or agencies of sovereign states;
(f) Financial dispositions are made for the purpose of promoting the objective(s) of the organisation;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
7A
3.1.2        Donations/Contributions, Grants, Membership Subscription
I. Donations and/or contributions from donor organisations or individuals, and government grants constitute
an important part of NPO resources. An obligation, for example to deliver or perform specified service or
work, is often attached to these contributions, and in such an event should be regarded as part of
“restricted funds”.
II. Donations/contributions from individuals or institutions create:
• a moral obligation, by whichever way it is received;
• a legal obligation to use the funds for what it was solicited; and
• restricted Funds, where usage is specified.
III. An obligating event is a legal obligation, which for example derives from a contract that results in an
enterprise having no alternative but to settle or meet that obligation.
IV. A contribution (donation or grant) should not be recognised as an incoming resource, until there is
reasonable assurance that the contribution will be received, and where relevant that the organisation has
or will comply with the condition(s) attached to it.  Receipt of the funds does not by itself provide
conclusive evidence that the conditions attached to the contribution have been or will be fulfilled. Until the
conditions have been fulfilled, the contribution should be regarded as part of Restricted Funds.
V. Membership subscription is an element of incoming resources for most of NPOs. If the membership
subscriptions permit only membership and all other services or products are paid for separately, they
should be recognised when received. If the membership fee entitles the members to services or publications
to be provided during the year, it should be recognised on a systematic and rational basis having regard
to the timing and nature of all services.
3.1.3 Donor Agreements
I. Most NPOs enter into formal agreements or contracts with donors, thereby committing themselves to
deliver/perform service/work to be financed by the respective donors. The agreement or contract will
provide a detailed description of what, where and when specified activities are to take place. A corresponding
budget and a list of terms and conditions, including for example reporting requirements, almost always
constitute an essential part of the agreement entered into. In addition to audited Financial Statements, a
Variance Report, comparing actual expenditure with the approved budget, together with a corresponding
narrative Progress Report, covering the same activity and period as the Variance Report, are also often
demanded. These reports, therefore, often constitute an essential part of the requirements spelled out in
the agreement between a donor and the NPO. These reports when read in conjunction with the financial
statements often provide a useful tool to the donor in assessing the degree of completion of the activity,
and to determine whether or not agreed objectives and conditions are being achieved.
II. Restrictions, or obligations, are attached not only to those funds provided by large donor agencies, but
also in many cases to contributions from individuals. In a fundraising campaign, for example, where the
NPO may look to the public to raise funds for a specific cause, even while there may be no written
agreements, there is a clear understanding between the parties. There is, consequently, a moral obligation
to utilise the funds as announced during the campaign, and the funds raised should, therefore, be regarded
as restricted.
III. Funds received as donations without any direct request being made, or without any defined terms and
conditions being laid down with regard to utilisation, are unrestricted.  In such circumstances, there will
be an unwritten agreement, that the funds will be utilised within the objectives of the NPO.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
8A
IV. In this same context, there must also be clear transparency in how much of the funds received are being
used to meet the general administrative and other central office costs of the NPO.
3.1.4 Restricted Funds
V. Nearly all NPOs hold funds that can be applied only for particular purposes within their overall objectives.
These purposes are often imposed by donors (whether it be the Government or other donors) and contained
in an agreement or may be self-imposed through announcements made during the course of a fundraising
campaign, the media or other similar form of communication. Funds held for such specified usage are
restricted funds and have to be separately accounted for in the financial statements. Income that is
generated from assets held in a restricted fund will normally be subject to the same restriction as the
original fund, unless the terms that imposed the original restriction specifically say otherwise.
VI. A different form of a restricted fund is an "endowment", which is held on trust to be retained for the benefit
of the organisation as a capital fund. Such funds cannot normally be spent as if it were income to the
organisation. The income earned from such capital may, however, be utilised for restricted or other
purposes of the organisation. In some instances the governing body may have a power of discretion to
convert endowed capital into income. In such an event, and if such power be exercised, the relevant
funds become restricted income or unrestricted income, dependent upon whether the governing body,
within its discretion permits the funds to be expended for any of the purposes of the NPO, or only for the
specific purpose. As a restricted fund, the endowment fund should, in any event, be separately accounted
for in the financial statements.
3.1.5 Unrestricted Funds
I. Many NPOs have resources, which are available for the general purposes of the NPOs as set out in its
governing document. This is the NPOs "unrestricted" or "general" fund. Income generated from assets
held in an unrestricted fund will be unrestricted income.
II. The NPOs governing body may earmark part of the NPOs unrestricted funds to be used for particular
purposes in the future. Since the governing body has the power, at a future date, to re-designate such
funds within unrestricted funds, they should be described as "designated funds" and, consequently, be
accounted for as part of the NPOs unrestricted funds.
3.1.6 Accumulated Fund
I. The Oxford Dictionary of Accounting defines Accumulated Fund as “A fund held by a non-profit-making
organisation to which a surplus of income over expenditure is credited and to which any deficit is debited.
The value of the accumulated funds can be calculated at any time by valuing the net assets (i.e. assets
less liabilities) of the organisation. The accumulated fund is the equivalent of the capital of a profit making
organisation”.
II. However, although NPOs do not have ownership interests or profit in the same sense as commercial
entities, they do nonetheless need a concept of capital maintenance, or its equivalent, to reflect "the
relation between inflows and outflows of resources during a period". An organisation may, during any
period, draw upon resources received in past periods and still unutilised, or set aside resources for use
in future periods.
III. Maintenance of the accumulated fund of an NPO is based on the maintenance of its financial capital. An
NPO’s capital has been maintained if the financial value of its net assets at the end of a period equals or
exceeds the financial value of its net assets at the beginning of the period.
IV. If an NPO fails to maintain its accumulated fund, its ability to continue to provide services will dwindle and
affect its ability to service future beneficiaries. Future resource providers may need to make up the
deficiency, unless the organisation has the ability to generate income, e.g. by fundraising, in order to
avoid such decline.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
9A
V. Restricted funds constitute an important part of the accumulated fund of an NPO. It is therefore important
to distinguish between the restricted accumulated fund and the general accumulated fund.
3.1.7 Governing Body
I. The governing body of an NPO is similar to the board of directors of a company. However, in the case of
an NPO this may be referred to as the Board of Governors or Council of Members or some other suitable name.
3.2 Users and their Information Needs
3.2.1 Financial statements of NPOs are used by different persons (statutory or corporate bodies, other NPOs
or individuals) for different purposes, and their information requirements vary considerably. Unlike in the
corporate sector, NPOs have neither owners nor investors. The most common groups of users of NPO
financial statement are the resource providers or contributors (i.e. the different categories of donors),
beneficiaries (different target groups), suppliers/creditors, employees and the authorities. Some NPOs
have members who represent an essential group of users. Others might have partner organisations with
whom they co-operate, and who will be important users of the financial statements.
3.2.2 Some examples of Information required by different users are listed below:
Members • Are the funds utilised in conformity with given guidelines?
• Is the NPO run according to given governing rules (By-laws or similar)?
• What is the underlying statute or regulation and are such regulations being met
with?
Resource • Is the NPO qualified to achieve agreed beneficiary objectives?
Providers • Does the NPO demonstrate sound stewardship?
• Is the NPO run efficiently and effectively?
• Is the NPO accountable – should support be extended or continued?
• Are the funds utilised as agreed and within the identified mandate of the NPO?
• Does the NPO adhere to agreed restrictions/requirements?
• Does the NPO have the structure and/or the capacity to implement the projects
as agreed?
Beneficiaries • Does the NPO provide support/services according to given guidelines?
• Does the NPO possess the ability to provide future support/services?
• Do the systems work as expected?
Suppliers/ • Is the NPO credible?
Creditors • Is it able to settle its debts by the due date?
Employees • Is the NPO a safe, secure working place?
• Is the NPO able to pay timely salary and other agreed benefits?
• Is the NPO financially able to carry out its objectives and provide the service as has
been indicated.
Authorities • Do the NPOs comply with applicable statutory and legal requirements?  (registration/
tax/report requirements etc.)?
• Should NPO activities be made subject to further regulation?
• Is there transparency in its activities and in the utilisation of resources?
Partners • Are available funds utilised as agreed, in conformity with applicable objectives/
guidelines?

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
10A
3. 3 Qualitative characteristics of useful financial information
3.3.1 If financial information is to be useful, it must be relevant and faithfully represent what it purports to
represent. The usefulness of financial information is enhanced if it is comparable, verifiable, timely and
understandable.
Fundamental qualitative characteristics
3.3.2 The fundamental qualitative characteristics are relevance and faithful representation.
Relevance
3.3.3 Relevant financial information is capable of making a difference in the decisions made by users. Information
may be capable of making a difference in a decision even if some users choose not to take advantage of
it or are already aware of it from other sources.
3.3.4 Financial information is capable of making a difference in decisions if it has predictive value, confirmatory
value or both.
3.3.5 Financial information has predictive value if it can be used as an input to processes employed by users
to predict future outcomes. Financial information need not be a prediction or forecast to have predictive
value. Financial information with predictive value is employed by users in making their own predictions.
3.3.6 Financial information has confirmatory value if it provides feedback about (confirms or changes) previous
evaluations.
3.3.7 The predictive value and confirmatory value of financial information are interrelated. Information that has
predictive value often also has confirmatory value. For example, revenue information for the current year,
which can be used as the basis for predicting revenues in future years, can also be compared with
revenue predictions for the current year that were made in past years. The results of those comparisons
can help a user to correct and improve the processes that were used to make those previous predictions.
Materiality
3.3.8 Information is material if omitting it or misstating it could influence decisions that users make on the
basis of financial information about a specific reporting entity. In other words, materiality is an entity-
specific aspect of relevance based on the nature or magnitude, or both, of the items to which the information
relates in the context of an individual entity’s financial report. Consequently, A uniform quantitative threshold
for materiality cannot be specified or predetermine what could be material in a particular situation.
Faithful representation
3.3.9 Financial reports represent economic phenomena in words and numbers. To be useful, financial information
must not only represent relevant phenomena, but it must also faithfully represent the phenomena that it
purports to represent. To be a perfectly faithful representation, a depiction would have three characteristics.
It would be complete, neutral and free from error. Of course, perfection is seldom, if ever, achievable. The
objective is to maximise those qualities to the extent possible.
3.3.10 A complete depiction includes all information necessary for a user to understand the phenomenon being
depicted, including all necessary descriptions and explanations. For example, a complete depiction of a
group of assets would include, at a minimum, a description of the nature of the assets in the group, a
numerical depiction of all of the assets in the group, and a description of what the numerical depiction
represents (for example, original cost, adjusted cost or fair value). For some items, a complete depiction
may also entail explanations of significant facts about the quality and nature of the items, factors and
circumstances that might affect their quality and nature, and the process used to determine the numerical
depiction.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
11A
3.3.11 A neutral depiction is without bias in the selection or presentation of financial information. A neutral
depiction is not slanted, weighted, emphasised, de-emphasised or otherwise manipulated to increase
the probability that financial information will be received favorably or unfavorably by users. Neutral
information does not mean information with no purpose or no influence on behavior. On the contrary,
relevant financial information is, by definition, capable of making a difference in users’ decisions.
3.3.12 Faithful representation does not mean accurate in all respects. Free from error means there are no errors
or omissions in the description of the phenomenon, and the process used to produce the reported
information has been selected and applied with no errors in the process. In this context, free from error
does not mean perfectly accurate in all respects. For example, an estimate of an unobservable price or
value cannot be determined to be accurate or inaccurate. However, a representation of that estimate can
be faithful if the amount is described clearly and accurately as being an estimate, the nature and limitations
of the estimating process are explained, and no errors have been made in selecting and applying an
appropriate process for developing the estimate.
3.3.13 A faithful representation, by itself, does not necessarily result in useful information. For example, a
reporting entity may receive property, plant and equipment through a government grant. Obviously, reporting
that an entity acquired an asset at no cost would faithfully represent its cost, but that information would
probably not be very useful. A slightly more subtle example is an estimate of the amount by which an
asset’s carrying amount should be adjusted to reflect an impairment in the asset’s value. That estimate
can be a faithful representation if the reporting entity has properly applied an appropriate process, properly
described the estimate and explained any uncertainties that significantly affect the estimate. However, if
the level of uncertainty in such an estimate is sufficiently large, that estimate will not be particularly
useful. In other words, the relevance of the asset being faithfully represented is questionable. If there is
no alternative representation that is more faithful, that estimate may provide the best available information.
Applying the fundamental qualitative characteristics
3.3.14 Information must be both relevant and faithfully represented if it is to be useful. Neither a faithful
representation of an irrelevant phenomenon nor an unfaithful representation of a relevant phenomenon
helps users make good decisions.
3.3.15 The most efficient and effective process for applying the fundamental qualitative characteristics would
usually be as follows (subject to the effects of enhancing characteristics and the cost constraint, which
are not considered in this example). First, identify an economic phenomenon that has the potential to be
useful to users of the reporting entity’s financial information. Second, identify the type of information
about that phenomenon that would be most relevant if it is available and can be faithfully represented.
Third, determine whether that information is available and can be faithfully represented. If so, the process
of satisfying the fundamental qualitative characteristics ends at that point. If not, the process is repeated
with the next most relevant type of information.
Enhancing qualitative characteristics
3.3.16 Comparability, verifiability, timeliness and understandability are qualitative characteristics that enhance
the usefulness of information that is relevant and faithfully represented. The enhancing qualitative
characteristics may also help determine which of two ways should be used to depict a phenomenon if
both are considered equally relevant and faithfully represented.
Comparability
3.3.17 Users’ decisions involve choosing between alternatives, for example, selling or holding an investment, or
investing in one reporting entity or another. Consequently, information about a reporting entity is more
useful if it can be compared with similar information about other entities and with similar information
about the same entity for another period or another date.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
12A
3.3.18 Comparability is the qualitative characteristic that enables users to identify and understand similarities
in, and differences among, items. Unlike the other qualitative characteristics, comparability does not
relate to a single item. A comparison requires at least two items.
3.3.19 Consistency, although related to comparability, is not the same. Consistency refers to the use of the
same methods for the same items, either from period to period within a reporting entity or in a single
period across entities. Comparability is the goal; consistency helps to achieve that goal.
3.3.20 Comparability is not uniformity. For information to be comparable, like things must look alike and different
things must look different. Comparability of financial information is not enhanced by making unlike things
look alike any more than it is enhanced by making like things look different.
3.3.21 Some degree of comparability is likely to be attained by satisfying the fundamental qualitative
characteristics. A faithful representation of a relevant economic phenomenon should naturally possess
some degree of comparability with a faithful representation of a similar relevant economic phenomenon
by another reporting entity.
3.3.22 Although a single economic phenomenon can be faithfully represented in multiple ways, permitting
alternative accounting methods for the same economic phenomenon diminishes comparability.
Verifiability
3.3.23 V erifiability helps assure users that information faithfully represents the economic phenomena it purports
to represent. Verifiability means that different knowledgeable and independent observers could reach
consensus, although not necessarily complete agreement, that a particular depiction is a faithful
representation. Quantified information need not be a single point estimate to be verifiable. A range of
possible amounts and the related probabilities can also be verified.
3.3.24 V erification can be direct or indirect. Direct verification means verifying an amount or other representation
through direct observation, for example, by counting cash. Indirect verification means checking the inputs
to a model, formula or other technique and recalculating the outputs using the same methodology. An
example is verifying the carrying amount of inventory by checking the inputs (quantities and costs) and
recalculating the ending inventory using the same cost flow assumption (for example, using the first-in,
first-out method).
3.3.25 It may not be possible to verify some explanations and forward-looking financial information until a future
period, if at all. To help users decide whether they want to use that information, it would normally be
necessary to disclose the underlying assumptions, the methods of compiling the information and other
factors and circumstances that support the information.
Timeliness
3.3.26 Timeliness means having information available to decision-makers in time to be capable of influencing
their decisions. Generally, the older the information is the less useful it is. However, some information
may continue to be timely long after the end of a reporting period because, for example, some users may
need to identify and assess trends.
Understandability
3.3.27 Classifying, characterising and presenting information clearly and concisely makes it understandable.
3.3.28 Some phenomena are inherently complex and cannot be made easy to understand. Excluding information
about those phenomena from financial reports might make the information in those financial reports
easier to understand. However, those reports would be incomplete and therefore potentially misleading.
3.3.29 Financial reports are prepared for users who have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic
activities and who review and analyse the information diligently. At times, even well-informed and diligent
users may need to seek the aid of an adviser to understand information about complex economic
phenomena.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
13A
Applying the enhancing qualitative characteristics
3.3.30 Enhancing qualitative characteristics should be maximised to the extent possible. However, the enhancing
qualitative characteristics, either individually or as a group, cannot make information useful if that information
is irrelevant or not faithfully represented.
3.3.31 Applying the enhancing qualitative characteristics is an iterative process that does not follow a prescribed
order. Sometimes, one enhancing qualitative characteristic may have to be diminished to maximise
another qualitative characteristic. For example, a temporary reduction in comparability as a result of
prospectively applying a new financial reporting standard may be worthwhile to improve relevance or
faithful representation in the longer term. Appropriate disclosures may partially compensate for non-
comparability.
3.4 The cost constraint on useful financial reporting
3.4.1 Cost is a pervasive constraint on the information that can be provided by financial reporting. Reporting
financial information imposes costs, and it is important that those costs are justified by the benefits of
reporting that information. There are several types of costs and benefits to consider.
3.4.2 Providers of financial information expend most of the effort involved in collecting, processing, verifying and
disseminating financial information, but users ultimately bear those costs in the form of reduced returns.
Users of financial information also incur costs of analysing and interpreting the information provided. If
needed information is not provided, users incur additional costs to obtain that information elsewhere or to
estimate it.
3.4.3 Reporting financial information that is relevant and faithfully represents what it purports to represent helps
users to make decisions with more confidence. This results in more efficient functioning of
 capital
markets and a lower cost of capital for the economy as a whole. An individual investor, lender or other
creditor also receives benefits by making more informed decisions. However, it is not possible for general
purpose financial reports to provide all the information that every user finds relevant.
3.4.4 In applying the cost constraint, the Council assesses whether the benefits of reporting particular information
are likely to justify the costs incurred to provide and use that information. When applying the cost
constraint in developing a proposed financial reporting standard, the Council seeks information from
providers of financial information, users, auditors, academics and others about the expected nature and
quantity of the benefits and costs of that standard. In most situations, assessments are based on a
combination of quantitative and qualitative information.
3.4.5 Be cause of the inherent subjectivity, different individuals’ assessments of the costs and benefits of
reporting particular items of financial information will vary. Therefore, the Council seeks to consider costs
and benefits in relation to financial reporting generally, and not just in relation to individual reporting
entities. That does not mean that assessments of costs and benefits always justify the same reporting
requirements for all entities. Differences may be appropriate because of different sizes of entities, different
ways of raising capital (publicly or privately), different users’ needs or other factors.
3.5 Underlying assumption
Going concern
3.5.1 The financial statements are normally prepared on the assumption that an entity is a going concern and
will continue in operation for the foreseeable future. Hence, it is assumed that the entity has neither the
intention nor the need to liquidate or curtail materially the scale of its operations; if such an intention or
need exists, the financial statements may have to be prepared on a different basis and, if so, the basis
used should be disclosed.
* * * * * * * * * *

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
14A
4. NPO Specific Provisions
The following specific provisions should be read in conjunction with the applicable set of Sri Lanka
Accounting Standards and the purpose of giving the specific provisions is to address NPO specific
matters and adjustments. This section prescribes the principles to be followed in the presentation of
financial statements by NPOs, inclusive of disclosures and should be followed in its entirety by NPOs to
be in compliance with this SL SoRP.
The Council will from time to time issue additional specific provisions and guidelines to address the
developments in the sector. Those will also need to be considered as a part of this SL SoRP .
4.1 The Elements of Financial Statements
Components of the Financial Statements
A complete set of financial statements of an NPO will include:
(a) Statement of Comprehensive Income
(b) Statement of Financial Position
(c) Statement of Changes in Reserves
(d) Statement of Cash Flow; and
(e) Accounting Policies and Explanatory Notes.
As part of the explanatory notes to the financial statements, NPOs may also include supplementary
schedules and information based on or derived from, and expected to be read with, such statements.
Financial statements would not, however, normally include such items as reports by the governing body/
management, statements by the chairman, discussion and analysis by management and similar items
that may be included in a financial or annual report of a corporate entity, unless required by the relevant
Donor Agreements.
4.2 Accumulated Fund
Unrestricted Fund (Capital)
Unrestricted fund is equivalent to the NPOs own capital, and should be presented separately from restricted
funds in the financial statements. However, in the case of projects that have been completed, any surplus
remaining in restricted funds, if permitted by the relevant contract or agreement, may also be transferred
for inclusion in the unrestricted fund.
Restricted Fund
Restricted funds, also called "Unspent Grant", represent a part of Restricted Net Assets in NPOs.
Measurement and Recognition
Restricted funds should be presented in the Statement of Financial Position at the time of receipt, - that is,
when received as cash or deposited to the bank account - or at the time when there is reasonable
assurance that it will be received.
Disclosure
The following should be disclosed:
(a) the accounting policy adopted for restricted funds and unrestricted funds, including the methods of
presentation in the financial statements;
(b) the nature and extent of restricted contributions recognised in the financial statements, and an
indication of other forms of assistance from which the organisation has directly benefited; and
(c) unfulfilled conditions and contingencies attaching to assistance that has been recognised.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
15A
4.3 Recognition of Revenue /Grants
4.3.1 NPOs should distinguish between
(a) restricted revenue and
(b) unrestricted revenue
and each should be measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
4.3.2 Different approaches are used for the recognition of (a) restricted and (b) unrestricted revenue.
Restricted Revenue
4.3.3 Restricted contributions are not gratuitous. They are based on agreements, contracts, or other
understanding, where the conditions for receipt of the funds are linked to a performance, of a service or
other process. The NPO earns the contribution through compliance with the conditions that have been
laid down and meeting the envisaged obligations.  Revenue should not therefore be recognised in the
Statement of Comprehensive Income, until there is reasonable assurance that the contribution will be
received, and the conditions stipulated for its receipt have been complied with.
4.3.4 Subject to the above restricted contributions when recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
must be matched against the related costs, which they are intended to compensate on a systematic
basis. Effectively, such contributions should be recognised only to the extent that the NPO has provided
the relevant services or performance.
4.3.5 On receiving any restricted contributions, e.g. as a bank deposit, the contribution should be credited to
the restricted fund account in the Statement of Financial Position and debited to the bank account. Thereafter,
on a systematic basis, (e.g. at the end of each month), an amount equivalent to that which has been
spent on agreed "restricted" activities during the month, should be taken to income, by debiting the
restricted fund account in the Statement of Financial Position and crediting restricted Income account.
4.3.6 By following this procedure, the net result of restricted Income and direct project expenses of any
particular transaction in the Statement of Comprehensive Income will normally be zero ("0").  Any amount
in excess of or less than zero would therefore, reflect results from other captions, e.g. unrestricted
income or expenses not linked to project activities, or any surplus remaining in a restricted fund, provided
that the donor has permitted such surplus to be transferred as unrestricted revenue.
Unrestricted Revenue
4.3.7 Revenue that arises from general unrestricted resources has characteristics similar to revenue in business
entities and should be treated accordingly. It should only be recognised when the amount of revenue can
be measured reliably, or when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction
will flow to the NPO. That is, at the time when no significant uncertainty exists with regard to the amount
of the consideration that will be derived from, for example, membership fees, sundry donations, consultancy
fees, sale of goods or other sources of unrestricted income.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
16A
4.3.8 The Statement of Comprehensive Income is designed to include all the gains and losses of an NPO,
which would be found in the profit and loss account of a business organisation.
4. 4 Inventory
Inventory Purchased or Donated on Account of Beneficiaries
4.4.1 NPOs may manufacture or purchase items for the purpose of distributing them to beneficiaries either free
of cost or at a nominal amount. Although such items are not held for the purpose of sale, or for consumption
in a production process, or in the rendering of services or other purpose of a commercial, industrial or
business nature, such items shall be considered to be inventory for the purpose of this SL SoRP .
4.4.2 Items are on occasion received as a donation by an NPO for distribution to beneficiaries or for sale with
the proceeds being used for the benefit of such beneficiaries.  In such an instance, it may not be possible
to apply a valuation to the items received.  Items donated and held as at the Statement of Financial
Position should therefore be listed and quantified.
4.5 Income Tax
Items Credited or Charged Directly to the Accumulated Fund
4.5.1 Current tax should be charged or credited directly to the relevant fund account, if the tax relates to items
that are credited or charged, in the same or a different period, directly to such a Fund account.
Tax Expense (Income)
4.5.2 The tax expense (income) should be presented on the face of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
4.6 Property, Plant & Equipment
Land
4.6.1 An NPO may acquire land in a variety of ways such as the following:
(a) By way of purchase from the landowners, including through a scheme of compulsory acquisition formulated
by the government;
(b) Land gifted to NPOs by institutions or individuals, whether with or without any conditions as to their use;
(c) Land provided to NPOs by government free of cost, whether with or without any conditions as to their
use;
(d) Land may also be vested in NPOs where such an NPO acts merely as a trustee and has no ownership
rights.
4.6.2 The acc ounting treatment of land acquired through the above modes may be as follows:
a. Land Acquired through Purchase
•••••    Such land should be recorded at the aggregate of the purchase price paid/payable and other
costs incidental to acquisition such as registration charges.
•••••    In the case of land acquired under a scheme of compulsory acquisition, in the event that there is
a dispute between the NPO and the previous owner whose land has been acquired, with regard
to the rate of compensation, in determining the cost of land for purpose of the financial statements,

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
17A
an appropriate allowance shall also be included for the additional compensation that may become
payable, provided the following conditions are satisfied.
(i) The payment of additional compensation is probable, and
(ii) the amount so payable can be reasonably estimated.
b. Land Acquired Free of Cost
· Land is sometimes provided by the government to the NPO free of cost. Land may also be provided
by individuals or institutions through an endowment for specific purposes like construction of
schools, for construction of parks and similar common facilities, etc. The cost of such land to
NPOs is zero. In substance, such land received is a non-monetary grant and, accordingly both
grant and asset shall be accounted for at the fair value. An alternative course that is sometimes
followed is to record both asset and grant at a nominal amount. However in order to maintain
proper control, such land must be recorded in the Fixed Asset Register and details disclosed in
the notes to the financial statements, including any conditions laid down for its use.
· Any incidental cost of acquisition such as registration charges shall be added to the above.
c. Vested Government Land
· Such land is neither owned by the NPO nor do the economic benefits from the use of such land
flow to the NPO. The ownership remains with the government and the NPO merely acts as a
trustee in respect of such land. Such land shall therefore not be considered as an asset of the
NPO.
Opening Balance at the Time of Shifting to the Accrual Basis of Accounting
4.6.3 An entity that has not recorded all of its property plant and equipment may be faced with a problem in
accounting for such items at the time the NPOs switches over to the accrual basis of accounting in
accordance with this SL SoRP. For example property, plant and equipment received by way of donations
or endowments may not have been recorded at the time they were acquired. Also, items acquired as part
of project expenditure through restricted funds may have been written off to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income.  It would be necessary to identify such assets, and account for them appropriately. In accounting
for such assets, factors such as adverse possession, defects in title, etc., would also need to be
considered.
Property, Plant and Equipment received as Donations or Endowments or through Grants
4.6.4 Property, plant and equipment that is received directly as donations or endowments should be debited to
the property, plant and equipment account at fair value and a corresponding amount credited to a deferred
income account.  Such items should thereafter be depreciated in accordance with this SL SoRP , while a
corresponding amount could be transferred from the deferred income to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income, in the Statement of Financial Position. In the Statement of Financial Position, deferred Income
would be deducted from the net book value of the assets so that the carrying amount of the asset would
be zero.
4.6.5 Where any item has been purchased for use by the NPO in a project being funded through a grant and
the value of such item has been charged to the relevant project account, such items shall be disclosed
as a note to the financial statement with the same categorisation as would be provided in respect of any
item included under property, plant and equipment in the Statement of Financial Position.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
18A
4.6.6 Where project assets are held and disclosed in accordance with paragraph 4.6.4, on conclusion of the
project, those items of property, plant and equipment that are to be retained by the organisation may be
brought into the books of accounts of the organisation at fair value through a capital reserve. Depreciation
provided on such assets would then be charged against the capital reserve. Where items are handed
over to the relevant beneficiaries or revert back to the donor at the end of the project appropriate disclosure
must be made in the financial statements.
5. Effective Date
5.1 The Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations (including Non-
Governmental Organisations) - (SL SoRP – NPOs [including NGOs]) becomes operative for financial
statements covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. It is  recommended and encouraged to
apply this SL SoRP for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 and it
is mandatory to apply this SL SoRP for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1
January 2013.
5.2 This SL SoRP supersedes SL SoRP for NPOs issued in 2005 which became operative from 1 April 2006
by CA Sri Lanka.
Appendix:
Illustrative Financial Statements Structure
The appendix is illustrative only and does not form part of the SL SoRP.  The purpose of the appendix is to illustrate
the application of the SL SoRP principles to assist in clarifying their meaning. The illustrative financial statements
are based on full SLFRSs.
The SL SoRP sets out the components of financial statements and minimum requirements for disclosure on the
face of the Statement of Financial Position and the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in
Reserves as well as for the Statement of Cash flows. The financial statements are accompanied by accounting
policies and notes.  The purpose of the Appendix is to provide examples of the ways in which, requirements for the
presentation of the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of
Changes in Reserves and Statement of Cash flows might be presented in the primary financial statements.  The
order of presentation and the description used for line items should be changed where necessary in order to achieve
a fair presentation in each organisation’s circumstances.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
19A
ABC SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 31 March 2013
(In thousands of Rs.]
Notes Organisation
As at 31 March 2013 2012
ASSETS
Non - Current Assets
Property Plant and Equipment 4.1 xxxx xxxx
Intangible assets 4.2 xxxx xxxx
Long-term receivables 4.3 xxxx xxxx
Other financial assets 4.4
xxxx xxxx
Total Non - Current Assets xxxx xxxx
Current Assets
Inventories 4.5 xxxx xxxx
Accounts receivable 4.6 xxxx xxxx
Prepayments 4.7 xxxx xxxx
Other financial assets 4.8 xxxx xxxx
Cash and cash equivalents 4.9 xxxx xxxx
Total Current Assets xxxx xxxx
Total Assets xxxx xxxx
LIABILITIES & RESERVES
Accumulated Reserves
Unrestricted Funds 4.10 xxxx xxxx
Designated Funds 4.11 xxxx xxxx
Restricted Funds 4.12 xxxx xxxx
Endowment Fund 4.13 xxxx xxxx
Other Capital Reserves 4.14 xxxx xxxx
Total Accumulated Reserves xxxx xxxx
Non - Current Liabilities
Loans and borrowings 4.15 xxxx xxxx
Employee benefit liabilities 4.16 xxxx xxxx
Deferred income 4.17 xxxx xxxx
Total Non - Curr ent Liabilities xxxx xxxx
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable 4.18 xxxx xxxx
Accrued expenses 4.19 xxxx xxxx
Loans and borrowings 4.15 xxxx xxxx
Provisions 4.20 xxxx xxxx
Bank overdrafts 4.21 xxxx xxxx
Total Current Liabilities xxxx xxxx
Total Liabilities xxxx xxxx
Total Liabilities and Reserves xxxx xxxx
The Board of Directors/Trustees is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors/Trustees on xx xx 20xx.
I certify that these financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act,
No. 07 of 2007.
1
Signed on behalf of the Board by
Date: xx  xx 20XX  ……………….. ………………… …………………..
    Director      Director Head of Finance
The Notes on pages …… to …… form an integral part of these financial statements.
Only if Relevant

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
20A
ABC SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Year Ended 31 March 2013
 (in thousands of Rs.)
Note Organisation
Year ended 31 March 2013 2012
OPERATING INCOME
Incoming Resources 4.22 xxxx xxxx
Total Operating income xxxx xxxx
OPERATING EXPENDITURE
Staff-related costs 4.23 xxxx xxxx
Direct project/activity costs 4.24 xxxx xxxx
Rentals 4.25 xxxx xxxx
Purchase of goods and materials xxxx xxxx
Depreciation xxxx xxxx
General expenditure xxxx xxxx
Total Operating expenditure xxxx xxxx
Net surplus/(deficit) of operating activities xxxx xxxx
OTHER INCOME
Net financial income 4.26 xxxx xxxx
Other income xxxx xxxx
Total Other income xxxx xxxx
OTHER EXPENDITURE
Foreign exchange losses (net) xxxx xxxx
Other expenses xxxx xxxx
Total Other expenditure xxxx xxxx
Net surplus/(deficit) of non-operating activities xxxx xxxx
Net surplus/(deficit) before Taxation xxxx xxxx
Income Tax Expenses 4.27 xxxx xxxx
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) FOR THE YEAR xxxx xxxx
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 4.11 xxxx xxxx
Exchange difference on translating foreign operations xxxx xxxx
Gains on property revaluation xxxx xxxx
Cash flow hedges xxxx xxxx
Net change in fair value of available for sale financial assets xxxx xxxx
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive
Income (
xxx) (xxx)
Total Other comprehensive income for the year xxxx xxxx
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARR xxxx xxxx
ALLOCATION OF TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR
Allocation to Reserves xxxx xxxx
Allocation to Endowment Fund xxxx xxxx
The Notes on pages …… to …… form an integral part of these financial statements.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
21A
ABC SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN RESERVES
For the Year Ended 31 March 2013
(in thousands of Rs.)
Description Restricted Unrestricted Endowment Capital Result
Reserves Reserves Funds Reserves for Total
 the
Year
Balance as at 1 April 2011 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Net surplus/(deficit) for the year    xxxx xxxx
Other comprehensive income for the
year    xxxx xxxx
Balance before transfers to/from
reserves xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Allocation of results to Reserves xxxx xxxx   (xxxx) xxxx
Allocation of results to Endowment
Fund  xxxx  (xxxx) xxxx
Increase/ Decrease in donors’ restricted
contributions for specific operations
(Note 4.12) (xxxx)    xxxx xxxx
Balance as at 31 March 2012 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Net surplus/(deficit) for the year    xxxx xxxx
Other comprehensive income for the
year    xxxx xxxx
Balance before transfers to/from
reserves xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Allocation of results to Reserves xxxx xxxx   (xxxx) xxxx
Allocation of results to Endowment
Fund  xxxx  (xxxx) xxxx
Increase/ Decrease in donors’ restricted
contributions for specific operations
(Note 4.12) (xxxx)    xxxx xxxx
Balance as at 31 March 2013 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
The Notes on pages …… to …… form an integral part of these financial statements

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
22A
ABC SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Year Ended 31 March 2013
(in thousands of Rs.)
Organisation
Year ended 31 March 2013 2012
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Surplus/ (deficit) for the year (Before Tax) xxxx xxxx
Adjustments to reconcile surplus/(deficit) to net cash flows:
Non-cash items:
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment xxxx xxxx
Amortization and impairment of intangible assets xxxx xxxx
Provision and losses on inventories xxxx xxxx
Movement in provisions, receivables and specific risks xxxx xxxx
Interest and securities income (xxx) (xxx)
Losses/ (gains) on securities (xxx) (xxx)
Gains from disposal of fixed assets (xxx) (xxx)
Working capital adjustments:
Accounts receivable (xxx) (xxx)
Prepayments xxxx xxxx
Inventories xxxx xxxx
Other financial assets (xxx) (xxx)
Accounts payable xxxx xxxx
Accrued expenses and deferred income (xxx) (xxx)
Other financial liabilities xxxx xxxx
Less:
Income Tax Paid (xxx) (xxx)
Interest paid    -    -
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities xxxx xxxx
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of Property Plant and Equipment (xxx) (xxx)
Purchase of intangible assets (xxx) (xxx)
Proceeds from sale of equipment xxxx xxxx
Purchase of securities (xxx) (xxx)
Interest received xxxx xxxx
Income from securities, net xxxx xxxx
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities xxxx xxxx
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Borrowing of government loans xxxx xxxx
Repayments of government loans (xxx) (xxx)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities xxxx xxxx
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS xxxx xxxx
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 1 APRIL xxxx xxxx
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 31 MARCH xxxx xxxx
The Notes on pages …… to …… form an integral part of these financial statements.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
23A
ABC SRI LANKA
Notes to Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2013
1. General Information
ABC Sri Lanka is a non governmental organisation as per the definition provided in the Sri Lanka Statement
of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations (including Non Governmental Organisations).
[It is/is not registered with the Department of Social Services and has been established under the Social
Services Act No. of ………….]
[The organisation has been incorporated under the Companies Act No……......  of Sri Lanka as a company
limited by guarantee. In the event that the company is wound up the liability of members is limited to Rs.
……   per member].
[The Organisation has been established under the Trust Ordinance of Sri Lanka].
∗
The names of the Members of the Board/Trustees of the Organisation are provided on page…
It is domiciled in Sri Lanka and is the local representation of ABC in the UK.  The principle place of activity
of the organisation is located at …………..
In the financial statements “Organisation” refers to ABC Sri Lanka.
Except for certain activities that will conclude on the realisation of their relevant activities in accordance
with the relevant terms of reference, the financial statements have been prepared on going concern basis.
The notes to the financial statements on pages … to …. are an integral part of the financial statements
All values presented in the financial statements are in Rupees thousands (Rs.’000s) unless otherwise
indicated.
2. Basis of Preparation
2.1 Statement of Compliance
The Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement  of Changes in
Reserves, Statement of Cash Flows together with the Accounting Policies and Notes to the financial
statements as at 31 March 2013 and for the year then ended comply with the Sri Lanka Statement of
Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations (including Non-Governmental Organisations) issued
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (SL SoRP).
2.2 Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, except as concerns
financial securities and derivative financial instruments, which are stated at their fair value.
∗ select as appropriate

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
24A
2.3 Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs.), which is the organization’s functional
and presentation currency. All financial information presented in Rupees has been rounded to the nearest
thousand, except when otherwise indicated.
2.4 Changes in Accounting Policies and Disclosures
The Accounting policies have been consistently applied, unless otherwise stated, and are consistent with
those used in previous years, except for the changes in accounting policies specified by the SL SoRP
issued in 2012.
2.5 Significant Accounting Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities, at the reporting date. However, uncertainty about these assumptions
and estimates can result in outcomes that could require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of
the asset or liability affected in the future.
Judgements
In the process of applying ABC Sri Lanka’s accounting policies, management has made the
following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant
effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements.
[state the judgements made by the management]
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other crucial sources of estimation uncertainty at
the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
[state the estimates and assumptions made by the management]
3. Summary of significant accounting policies
3.1 Foreign-currency transactions
Transactions in currencies other than Sri Lanka Rupees are converted into Sri Lanka Rupees at rates
which approximate the actual rates at the transaction date. At the reporting date, monetary assets (including
securities) and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are converted into Sri Lanka Rupees at the rate
of exchange at that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies that are stated at
historical cost are translated at the foreign exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Realized and
unrealized exchange differences are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
            The principal rates of exchange are shown below:
Currency Closing Rate Average Rate
31.03.2013 31.03.2012 31.03.2013 31.03.2012

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
25A
3.2 Cash and cash equivalents
ABC Sri Lanka considers cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term deposits with an original
maturity of three months or less to be "Cash and cash equivalents". Bank borrowings that are repayable on
demand and form an integral part of the ABC Sri Lanka’s cash management are included as a component
of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash flows.
3.3 Financial Instruments
ABC Sri Lanka classifies financial assets in to the following categories; financial assets at fair value
through profit and loss, held to maturity financial assets, loans and receivables, and available for sale
financial assets.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are classified as current assets, with any resultant
gains or losses recognized in finance costs in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. As ABC Sri
Lanka’s securities are managed externally on a portfolio basis, all income from securities is disclosed net.
Securities are recognized and de-recognized on the trade date that the portfolio manager, on behalf of ABC
Sri Lanka, commits to purchase or sell the investments.
The fair value of listed securities is their quoted bid price at the reporting date. Financial income consists
principally of interest and net realized and unrealized gains on changes in fair value. Interest income is
recognized on an accruals basis, taking into account the effective yield of the asset.
Held to maturity financial assets
If the organisation has positive intent and ability to hold debt securities to maturity, then such financial
assets are classified as held to maturity. They are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method, less any impairment losses.
Loans and Receivables
ABC Sri Lanka initially recognises loans and receivables on the date that they are originated. All other
financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the organisation becomes
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Loans and receivables are stated at their cost net of
an allowance on outstanding amounts to cover the risk on non-payment.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are financial assets that are designated as available for sale or are not
classified in any of the above categories of financial assets. They are initially recognised at fair value plus
any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair
value therein, other than impairment losses and foreign currency difference on available for sale debt
instruments, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in equity. When an investment
is derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
The carrying amounts of ABC Sri Lanka’s assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether
there is any indication of impairment. The organisation assesses whether there is any objective evidence that
a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is
deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more
events occurring after the initial

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
26A
recognition of the asset or assets (an incurred "loss event") and that loss event has an impact on the
estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably
estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors are experiencing
significant financial difficulty or default in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter
bankruptcy or any financial reorganization, and when observable data indicate that there is a measurable
decrease in future cash flows, such as change in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
If any indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is then recognized whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable
amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. An impairment
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, but
only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have
been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.
3.4 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  Net realisable value is the price at which
inventories can be reasonably expected to be sold in the market place, less any estimated cost necessary
to make the sale.
Cost incurred to bringing inventories to its present location and condition include cost of raw materials on
a first in first out basis, any direct labour, and an appropriate portion of any other direct overhead.
Items donated for distribution or resale are not included in the financial statements until such time they are
distributed or resold.
3.5 Property Plant and Equipment
a.
Cost and Valuation
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost.  Where any item of
property, plant and equipment subsequently revalued, the entire class of such asset is revalued.
Revaluation is carried out with sufficient regularity to ensure that their carrying amounts do not
differ materially from their fair values as at the date of the Statement of Financial Position.  Subsequent
to the initial recognition of an asset, property plant and equipment are carried at historical cost or,
if revalued, at the revalued amounts less any subsequent depreciation. Additions subsequent to
the last revaluation is carried at cost less any subsequent depreciation.
Buildings owned are used for purposes of ABC Sri Lanka and therefore do not fall under the
definition of Investment Property.
b.
Subsequent Expenditure
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only when it increases the future economic benefits
embodied in the item of property and equipment. All other expenditure is recognized in the
Statement of Comprehensive Income as an expense as incurred.
c.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided for on all assets on the straight-line basis and is calculated on the cost or revalued amount
of all property, plant and equipment other than land, in order to write off such amounts less any terminal value over
the estimated useful lives of such assets.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
27A
The annual rates of depreciation currently being used by ABC Sri Lanka are:
Assets Rate pa.
Buildings 2 ½%
Motor Vehicles 20%
Computer equipment 33 1/3%
Computer software 33 1/3%
Office Equipment 20%
Furniture and Fittings 10%
[Please note these rates are for purpose of the illustrative statements only and not recommendations]
d.
Donated Assets
Where property plant and equipment is purchased as a part of a project through restricted
funds, until the conclusion of the project or, if on conclusion of the project, the asset is not handed
over to the beneficiary or returned to the original donor, the cost of the asset is included in a
memorandum inventory of property plant and equipment identified as such in the financial statements.
Depreciation is/is not provided on such assets.
Alternative treatment:
Where property plant and equipment is purchased as a part of a project through restricted funds, if
on conclusion of the project, the asset is not handed over to the beneficiary or returned to the
original donor, the asset is valued on the conclusion of the project and brought into the financial
statements under property plant and equipment through a Capital Reserve. The basis of valuation
is as provided hereunder.  Depreciation provided on such assets will be charged against the reserve.
For purpose of depreciation the date of valuation for inclusion in the financial statements is considered
the date of purchase.
3.6 Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition,
intangible assets are carried at cost minus any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment
losses, except for assets with indefinite useful lives. Internally generated intangible assets are not capitalized
as the criteria of recognition under LKAS 38 – Intangible Assets cannot be reliably measured; expenditure
is therefore reflected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which the expenditure is
incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their useful economic life and assessed for
impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization
period and method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at each financial year-
end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits
embodied in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortization period or method, as appropriate,
and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortization expense on intangible assets with
finite lives is recognized in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as a depreciation expense.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
28A
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually. Such intangibles are not
amortized. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine
whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment
from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
3.7 Financial liabilities
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing loans are stated at amortized cost with any difference
between cost and redemption value being recognized in the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the
period of the loan on an effective interest basis.
Interest-free loans are recorded at fair value on initial recognition, which is the present value of the expected
future cash flows, discounted using a market-related rate. The difference between the cost and the fair
value of these loans on initial recognition is a deferred income. These loans and deferred income are
subsequently recognized at amortized cost and spread over the useful life of the related assets.
3.8 Provisions
A provision is recognized in the statement of financial position when ABC Sri Lanka has a legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of assets will be required to settle the
obligation, and the obligation can be measured reliably. For certain operational claims reported as provisions,
it is not practical to disclose detailed information on their corresponding nature and uncertainties. If the
effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flow so as to reflect
current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the
liability.
3.9 Employee Benefits
a.
Defined Benefit Plan – Gratuity
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not defined contribution plan. Defined benefit plans
define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent
on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognized in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plan is
the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the date of the Statement of Financial Position
together with adjustments for unrecognized past-service costs. The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present
value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash
outflows using the interest rates of long term Government Bonds or high quality corporate bonds.
Past service costs are recognized immediately in income, unless the changes to the defined
benefit plans are conditional on the employees remaining in services for a specified period of time
(the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over
the vesting period.
As a policy, ABC Sri Lanka adopts the Corridor Method in recognizing the actuarial gains and
losses. Accordingly, ABC Sri Lanka recognizes in the Statement of Comprehensive Income a
specified portion of the net cumulative actuarial gains and losses that exceed the greater of;
(i) 10% of the present value of the defined benefit obligation (before deducting plan assets);
and
(ii) 10% of the fair va lue of any plan assets

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
29A
b. Defined Contribution plans
All employees are eligible to contribution to the Employees’ Provident Fund and the Employees’
Trust Fund in accordance with the relevant statutes and regulations.  ABC Sri Lanka contributes
12% and 3% of the gross emoluments of the employees to the Employees’ Provident Fund and to
the Employees’ Trust Fund respectively.
3.10 Accounting for the receipt and utilisation of Funds/Reserves
Reserves
Reserves are classified as either restricted or unrestricted reserves.
a.
Unrestricted Reserves/Funds
Unrestricted funds are those that are available for use by ABC Sri Lanka at the discretion of the
Board, in furtherance of the general objectives of ABC Sri Lanka and which are not designated for
any specific purpose.
Surplus funds are transferred from restricted funds to unrestricted funds in terms of the relevant
Donor Agreements or with the subsequent approval of the Donor.
Contributions received from the general public are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income on a cash basis.
b.
Designated Reserves/Funds
Unrestricted funds designated by the Board to a specific purpose are identified as designated
funds.  The activities for which these funds may be used are identified in the financial statements.
c.
Restricted Reserves/Funds
Where grants are received for use in an identified project or activity, such funds are held in a
restricted fund account and transferred to the Statement of Comprehensive Income to match with
expenses incurred in respect of that identified project.  Unutilised funds are held in their respective
Fund accounts and included under accumulated fund in the Statement of Financial Position until
such time as they are required.
Funds collected through a fund raising activity for any specific or defined purpose are also included
under this category.
Where approved grant expenditure exceeds the income received and there is certainty that the
balance will be received such amount is recognised through Debtors in the Statement of Financial
Position.
The activities for which these restricted funds may and are being used are identified in the notes to
the financial statements.
e.
Endowment Reserves/Funds
Where assets are received as an endowment, which are not exhausted, only the income earned
from such assets may be recognised and used as income.
f. Investment Income and other gains realised from funds available under each of the above categories
are allocated to the appropriate funds, unless the relevant agreement or minute provides otherwise.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
30A
3.11 Grants and Subsidies
Grants and subsidies are recognised in the financial statements at their fair value. When the grant or
subsidy relates to an expense it is recognised as income over the period necessary to match it with the
costs, which it is intended to compensate for on a systematic basis.
Grants and subsidies related to assets are generally deferred in the Statement of Financial Position and
credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the useful life of the asset.
In the case of grants received to fund an entire project or activity, which includes the purchase of an asset,
and the cost of such asset is charged with the project costs to the Statement of Comprehensive Income,
the grant value is recognised as income in the same period as the cost of the asset is charged to the
Statement of Comprehensive Income.  On conclusion of the project, in the event that the asset is not
handed over to the beneficiary or returned to the original donor, the cost of the asset is included in a
memorandum inventory of property plant and equipment identified as such in the financial statements.
3.12 Leases
a.
Finance Leases
Property, plant and equipment on finance leases, which effectively transfer to ABC Sri Lanka
substantially all of the risk and benefits incidental to ownership of the lease items, are capitalised
and disclosed as Finance Lease at their cash price and depreciated over the period ABC Sri Lanka
is expected to benefit from the use of the leased assets.
The corresponding principal amount that is payable to the lessor is shown as a liability.  Lease
payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to
achieve a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability. The interest payable
over the period of the lease is transferred to an interest in a suspense account. The interest
element of the rental obligation pertaining to each financial year is charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income over the period of the lease.
b.
Operating leases
Leases where, the lessor effectively retains substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership
over the term of the lease are classified as operating leases.  Rentals paid under operating leases
are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis
over the term of the lease.
3.13 Income recognition
a.
Contributions/ Incoming Sources
Income realised from restricted funds is recognised in the Statements of Comprehensive Income
only when there is certainty that all of the conditions for receipt of the funds have been complied
with and the relevant expenditure that it is expected to compensate has been incurred and charged
to the Statements of Comprehensive Income. Unutilised funds are carried forward as such in the
Statement of Financial Position.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
31A
Gifts and donations received in kind are recognised at valuation at the time that they are distributed
to beneficiaries, or if received for resale with proceeds being used for the purpose of ABC Sri Lanka
at the point of such sale.  Items not sold or distributed are inventorised but not recognised in the
financial statements.
All other income is recognised when ABC Sri Lanka is legally entitled to the use of such funds and
the amount can be quantified. This would include income receivable through fund raising activities
and donations.
b.
Revenue
Interest earned is recognised on an accrual basis.
Dividend received is recognised when the right to receive dividend is established.
Revenues earned on services rendered are recognised in the accounting period in which the services
were rendered.
Net gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and other non current
assets, including investments, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income after
deducting from the proceeds on disposal, the carrying value of the item disposed of and any
related selling expenses. In the case of any revalued asset, any balance remaining in the Revaluation
Reserve account is transferred to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Other income is recognised on an accrual basis.
3.14 Expenditure recognition
Expenses in carrying out the projects and other activities of ABC Sri Lanka are recognised in the
Statement of Comprehensive Income during the period in which they are incurred. Other expenses
incurred in administering and running ABC Sri Lanka and in restoring and maintaining the property
plant and equipment to perform at expected levels are accounted for on an accrual basis and
charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
ABC Sri Lanka has adopted the “Function of expense” method to present fairly the elements of
ABC Sri Lanka’s activities in its Statement of Comprehensive Income.
3.15 T axation
a.
Current Taxes
Income tax is provided in accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006,
on the profits earned by ABC Sri Lanka and in terms of Section 96A; and is based on the elements
of income and expenditure reflected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and on the elements
of grants received, subject to exemptions referred to in Note xx to the financial statements.
b.
Deferred Taxes
Deferred Tax is provided on the difference between the values of assets and liabilities as per the Statement
of Financial Position and as listed for the purpose of Income Tax as at the date of the Statement of
Financial Position adjusting for any differences that will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of such deferred taxes will be reviewed at each date of the Statement of
Financial Position and will be increased by virtue of any new assets being included or be reduced
by the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all
or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
32A
c. Value added taxes
Value added taxes (or VAT) are payable on the import of certain items and are normally included in
the cost of such item.  An exception would be where the item Statement of Financial Position
sheet until such time as it is received.
3.16 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
asset, are capitalised as a part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are treated as an expense
in the period in which it is incurred.
3.17 Financial income and expenditure
Net financial income (see Note xx) comprises interest payable on borrowings, interest receivable on funds
invested, securities income and gains and losses on hedging instruments. Interest income is recognized in
the Statement of Comprehensive Income as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
3.18 Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be
confirmed only on the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events that are not
wholly within the control of ABC Sri Lanka. It may also be a present obligation that arises from past events
but in respect of which an outflow of economic benefit is not probable or which cannot be measured with
sufficient reliability. Such contingent liabilities are recorded under Note xx. For certain operational claims
reported as contingent liabilities, it is not practical to disclose detailed information on their corresponding
nature and uncertainties.
4. Notes to the Financial Statements
4.1 Property Plant and Equipment
 
(a)
Item Balance as Additions Disposals Balance as
at 01.04.2012 during the year during the year at 31.03.2013
At Cost /Valuation
Land xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Buildings xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Motor Vehicles xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Computer equipment     xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Computer software     xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Office Equipment     xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Furniture and Fittings
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Capital work in progress     xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
33A
Item Balance as Charge Disposals Balance as
at 01.04.2012 for the year during the year at 31.03.2013
Depreciation on
Cost/Valuation
Land xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Buildings xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Motor Vehicles xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Computer equipment xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Computer software xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Office Equipment xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Furniture and Fittings
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Capital work in progress xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Net book value of Assets
At cost xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
At valuation xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
(b) Segment analysis of net book value of assets
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Segment
Provision of housing xxxx xxxx
Fisheries xxxx xxxx
Other project xxxx xxxx
Administration xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx
(c). Project Assets not included in Statement of Financial Position
At Cost /Valuation
Item Balance as at Additions Capitalised T ransferred Balance as at
01.04.2012 during the year during the year during the year  31.03.2013
Buildings     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx
Motor Vehicles     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx
Computer equipment     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx
Computer software     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx
Office Equipment     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx
Furniture and Fittings     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx     xxxx
Total   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx   xxxx

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
34A
4.2 Intangible Assets
Item Balance as Additions Disposals Balance as
at 01.04.2012 during the year during the year at 31.03.2013
At Cost /Valuation
Software     xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Emblem     
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Total     xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Item Balanceas Charge for Balance as
at 01.04.2012 the year at 31.03.2013
Amortization
Software xxxx xxxx xxxx
Emblem xxxx xxxx xxxx
Total             xxxx xxxx xxxx
Net Book Value xxxx xxxx xxxx
4.3 Long Term Receivables
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Deferred Income xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.4 Other Financial Assets
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Forward currency contracts xxxx xxxx
Guarantee deposits xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.5 Inventories
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Consumables xxxx xxxx
Administration, identification and security xxxx xxxx
Publications xxxx xxxx
Work In progress xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
Inventory written off and charged to expenses amounted to Rs.xxx.
4.6 Accounts Receivable
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Pledges xxxx xxxx
National Societies, organizations,
foundations and funds xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx
Withholding taxes xxxx xxxx
            Other income receivable xxxx xxxx
Allowance for accounts receivable (
xxx) (xxx)
Total xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
35A
4.7 Prepayments
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Prepaid expenses xxxx xxxx
Advance payments to suppliers xxxx xxxx
Social security and insurance contributions xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.8 Other Financial Assets
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Fair Value through Profit & Loss
financial assets xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.9 Cash and cash equivalents
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Cash in hand xxxx xxxx
Cash at Bank xxxx xxxx
Short-term deposits xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
Cash at banks earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank rates. Short-term deposits are made for
varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of
ABC Sri Lanka, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
At 31 March 2013, ABC Sri Lanka had available Rs. xxxxx (2012: Rs. xxx) of undrawn committed borrowing
facilities in respect of which all prior conditions had been met.
For the purpose of the Statement of Cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprised the following as
at 31 March:
31.03.2013 31.03.2012
Cash and cash equivalents xxxx xxxx
Bank overdrafts xxxx xxxx
Total Cash and cash equivalents xxxx xxxx
in the statement of cash flows
4.10 Unrestricted Reserves/Funds
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Balance at beginning of the year xxxx xxxx
Unrestricted surplus/deficit
     in operating Activities  (
xxx) (xxx)
Balance at end of the year xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
36A
4.11 Designated Funds
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Balance as at beginning of year xxxx xxxx
Additional Funds received during the year xxxx xxxx
Transfer to Statement of Comprehensive Income ( xxx) (xxx
Balance as at year end xxxx xxxx
Designated for
Refurbishment/expansion of office space xxxx xxxx
Staff welfare xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx
4.12 Restricted Funds
Balance as at beginning of year xxxx xxxx
Additional Funds received during the year xxxx xxxx
Transfer to Statement of Comprehensive Income ( xxx) (xxx)
Transfer to Unrestricted Funds ( xxx) (xxx)
Balance as at year end xxxx xxxx
Name of 
Donor 
Organisation 
Project Balance 
brought 
forward 
Received 
/restricted 
surplus 
during the 
year 
Transferred 
to Income 
and 
Expenditure 
Interest 
Income 
on 
Restricted 
Funds 
Balance 
carried 
forward 
ABC 
 
      
GH1 
 
      
MNO 
 
      
XYZ 
 
      
 
   Total 
      
Project wise allocation and movement in Restricted Funds
4.13 Endowment Funds
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Balance at beginning of the year xxxx xxxx
Surplus / deficit for the year ( xxx) (xxx)
Balance at end of the year xxxx xxxx
Endowment Funds as at year-end comprise:
…………………… xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
37A
4.14 Other Capital Reserves
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Balance at beginning of the year xxxx xxxx
Surplus / deficit for the year  (xxx) (xxx)
Balance at end of the year xxxx xxxx
4.15 Loans and borrowings
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Unsecured interest-free loans xxxx xxxx
Less current portion (xxx) (xxx)
Total xxxx xxxx
There are two interest-free loans related to buildings, both granted by a governmental body. These interest-
free loans were recognized at their fair values at initial recognition. The difference between fair value and
cost has been booked in deferred income (see Note xx). As at 31 March 2013,the fair value of these non-
current loans amounts to Rs.xxxx. Notional interest for a contributed service of Rs.xxxx (2012:Rs. xxx)
has been recorded as expenditure and as income.
4.16 Employee benefit liabilities
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Balance as at 1 April xxxx xxxx
Current service cost xxxx xxxx
Past service cost xxxx xxxx
Interest cost xxxx xxxx
Actuarial losses/(gains) xxxx xxxx
Benefits paid during the year (xxx) (xxx)
Balance as at 31 March xxxx xxxx
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows:
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Current service cost xxxx xxxx
Past service cost xxxx xxxx
Interest cost xxxx xxxx
Balance as at 31 March xxxx xxxx
This obligation is not externally funded.
4.17 Deferred income
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Deferred income related to pledges xxxx xxxx
Deferred income related to government loans xxxx xxxx
Balance as at 31 March xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
38A
4.18 Accounts Payable
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Refundable to donors xxxx xxxx
Suppliers xxxx xxxx
Sundry items xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities
• Governments, National Societies, organizations, foundations, funds and suppliers are non-interest bearing and
are normally settled on 30-day terms.
• Sundry items are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
4.19 Accrued expenses
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
National Societies, organizations,
foundations and funds xxxx xxxx
Accrued expenses xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.20 Provisions
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Balance at 1 April xxxx xxxx
Allocations during the year xxxx xxxx
Use of provisions during the year xxxx xxxx
Release of provisions during the year (xxx) (xxx)
Total xxxx xxxx
The balance represents operational claims that are principally legal in nature and that management considers will
probably be paid by ABC Sri Lanka. All provisions are expected to be settled within a year.
4.21 Bank overdrafts
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Bank 1 xxxx xxxx
Bank 2 xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
39A
4.22 Incoming Resources
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Summary
Activities in furtherance of organisation’s objectives
Grants - Restricted Funding xxxx xxxx
Grants – Unrestricted Funding xxxx xxxx
Income from endowments xxxx xxxx
Donations from the public xxxx xxxx
Corporate Fundraising xxxx xxxx
Gifts in kind xxxx xxxx
Profit from trading or other activities [refer (a)] xxxx xxxx
Other fund raising activity xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx
(a)  Profit from trading activities
Sale Proceeds xxxx xxxx
Cost/Fair value of items xxxx xxxx
Profit earned xxxx xxxx
4.23 Staff-related Costs
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Wages and salaries xxxx xxxx
Social insurance and social benefits xxxx xxxx
Contributed services xxxx xxxx
Post-employment benefit costs xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
The average number of positions/employees during 2012/2013 was xxxx.
4.24 Direct Project/Activity Costs
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Administration costs xxxx xxxx
Consultancy fees xxxx xxxx
Travelling xxxx xxxx
Other xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.25 Rentals
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Premises and equipment xxxx xxxx
Transport xxxx xxxx
Other xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
40A
4.26 Net Financial Income
Organisation
For the year ended 31 March 2013 2012
Dividends xxxx xxxx
Interest xxxx xxxx
Gains/(losses) on securities xxxx xxxx
Total xxxx xxxx
4.27 Income Tax Expense
Current Tax on Ordinary Activities xxxx xxxx
NGO Tax on Grants received xxxx xxxx
Total Income Tax expense xxxx xxxx
Applicable rates of tax and the relevant tax regimes
As per the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006, all Non-Governmental Organisations are liable to tax at
xx% on any surplus earned during the year; and xx% of all grants received during the year are taxable at
xx% subject to certain specified exemptions.
ABC Organisation is exempted from Income based taxes as per xx of the Act and the following activities
are exempted from the Grants tax as per xx of the Act.
Transferred from 
Restricted Funds 
Total amount expended 
Other Direct 
Identified 
Project 
Organisation Amount 
Received 
during the 
year from 
unrestricted 
funds and 
other 
sources 
Staff 
Assets Other 
Other 
Indirect 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
       
Housing 
Location 1 
Location 2 
Other 
 
Total 
        
        Fisheries 
 
Location 1 
Location 2 
Other 
 
 
Total 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
Other 
 
Location 1 
Location 2 
Other 
 
 
        
Total         
Transfer to 
Statement 
of 
Financial 
Position 
        
Per SFA         
4.28 Project Activity Summary
Surplus/
deficit on
project

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'25
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.07.2014
41A
4.29 Capital Commitments
ABC Sri Lanka has committed to building 10 houses in …..   in the …..  District at a cost of Rs. xxx
millions of which a sum of Rs. xxx has been expended as at the date of the Statement of Financial
Position.
4.30 Contingent Liabilities
ABC Sri Lanka has committed to provide equipment to a value of Rs.xxx to a home in ….. on the basis of
funds to be provided by Donor X.  In the event that these funds are not received ABC Sri Lanka would be
required to meet this cost.
4.31 Related Party Transactions
ABC Sri Lanka has entered into a contract with P and Sons to provide computer equipment to a value of
Rs. xxx. The owner of P and Sons is also a consultant to ABC Sri Lanka.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.