

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
ExTRaoRDinaR y
(Published by authority)
PaRT i: SEcTion ( i) – GEnERaL
Government Notifications
wxl 2378$12 – 2024 wfm%a,a ui 01 jeks i÷od – 2024'04'01
no. 2378/12 – M onDay, aPR iL 01, 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 41691 – 24 (04/2024)
MiniSTR y of Wa TER  SuPPL y anD EST aTE  infRaSTRucTuRE  DEvELoPMEnT
Water Supply connection Guidelines for Water Supply Providers
I, Jeevan Thondaman as the Minister of Water Supply and Estate Infrastructure Development do hereby declare the “Water 
Supply Connection Guideline for Water Supply Providers” referred to in the following schedule
   Jeev an Thondaman,
   Minister of Water Supply and Estate Infrastructure Development.
Ref: DEV/04/ADB/GEN/01
Ministry of Water Supply and Estate Infrastructure Development, 
“Lakdiya Medura”
35, New Parliament Road,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
27th of March 2024.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 2A
Wa TER  SuPPL y connEcTion GuiDELinES  foR  Wa TER  SuPPL y PRoviDERS
1. inTRoDucTion  
1.1 BackGRounD
  
 There are various Water Supply (WS) Providers operating in the country with their mandate/ authority given to them 
under enactments and vested power. The main WS Providers to the customers through connected pipelines are National 
Water Supply & Drainage Board (NWSDB), Local Authorities (LAs), Community Based Organizations (CBOs); apart from 
private vendors who are supplying water directly to customers using various filtration technologies and through bowser 
supplies.
 At present, the NWSDB provides potable water to about 48% of the population through water supply schemes it manages. 
CBOs and LAs provide potable water to a further 12% of the population. The NWSDB serves about 3.0 million customers, 
of which 2.8 million are domestic customers. Due to the limitations of capacities of water resources and treatment facilities 
of water supply schemes and low-pressure areas, it is difficult to extend the services to new areas. It should be noted that, 
though connected to the NWSDB live networks, some active consumers do not receive continuous water supply to their 
premises and in some exceptional cases, customers receive water only for a few hours in the day. Most of the CBO and LA 
manage schemes also has limited capacities of Water Supply.
 Due to the current economic crisis, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) cannot bear capital cost for new projects or 
facility improvements. Thus, providing water to prospective customers has become even harder to serve larger population and 
greater water coverage. Therefore, it is required to reduce wastage before and after the meter and apply demand management 
approaches to increase water availability and provide water to more population. 
 However, most of the households and the institutions did not made attention or considered the matter seriously; because 
the previous tariff structure did not encourage them to spend money for reduce water losses or better-quality water fittings 
within the house and institutions. Another concern in this aspect of water losses within the houses and institutions, is poor 
workmanship of plumbing system installations and maintenance /repairs.
        
In order to ensure the equity in service delivery and reduce water wastage, recognizing having of a comprehensive and 
common connection guideline to be followed by all Water Supply Providers, it was decided to prepare Water Connection 
guideline. 
1.2 PuRPoSE  
 The Connection Guideline only applies to the WS Providers, those who distribute water through   connected pipeline 
aiming to provide reliable and sustainable services and to comply with legislative requirements.
 The Connection Guidelines set out the technical, procedural, and commercial requirements of WS Providers in relation to 
water supply connection and water service facilities to customer’s premises. It is intended that this Connection Guidelines 
will encourage well planned, well designed, and cost-effective connections, new water supply systems, augmentations, and 
extension of WS Providers’ infrastructure.
 Having water connection guidelines is essential for the responsible and sustainable management of water resources, 
promoting equitable access, protecting public health, and ensuring the overall well-being of communities.
1.3 conTEnT
The Connection Guidelines includes: 
Water Supply Connection Guidelines
For
Water Supply Providers

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 3A
 a. The right of any person or entity seeks new connections, upgrade of connections and increased water demand to 
WS Providers’ infrastructure.
 b. Description of the types of new applications for water supply connection that require an initial assessment. 
 c. Technical requirements, such as specifications for the design and construction of assets such as plumbing and 
installation of fittings and equipment; 
 d. Procedural requirements, such as process for the approval of plumbing works, inspection of technical compliance 
of work, handing over of connection, Inspection by WS Providers, ensuring future access to those assets and 
disseminate awareness materials to reduce water wastage; and 
 e. Commercial requirements, to ensure that the impact of new applications for connection does not impose 
additional costs on existing customers and/ or WS Providers.
1.4 oBjEcTivES  
 The objective of the Connection Guidelines is to facilitate assessment and approval of new connections, upgrades of 
connections, which increase water demand that has an impact on WS Providers’ infrastructure or services. 
 
 WS Providers’ technical, procedural and commercial documents will be developed taking into account the following 
objectives: 
 a. Ensure equitable access within the available area of coverage.
 b. Enabling transparent water connection process 
 c. Optimize the strategic use of WS Providers’ infrastructure.
 d. Not hinder or compromise WS Providers’ customer service levels.
 e. Not hinder or compromise WS Providers’ operational and maintenance requirements.
 f. Ensure proper infrastructure planning and management.
 g. Ensure consistency and standardization.
 h. Minimize environmental impact and maximize resource conservation due to new demand for water connections.
 i. Minimized water wastage with quality goods and services.
 j. Ensure the water quality within the premises.
 k. Ensure customer relations.
 l. Ensuring the customer grievances and complaints
 m. Ensure compliance with regulations.
 n. Contribute for long-term sustainability.
 o. Ensure the preparedness for emergency situations.
 p. Minimize risks to the customer’s and other civil society perspective.
 q. New water connections do not affect the existing customers.
 r. Ensure customer satisfaction. 
 s. Encourage the water conservation methodologies.
2. inTEnT  anD  GEnERaL  PRinciPLES
2.1 inTEnT  
 WS Providers are committed to make a difference to the lives of consumers, by being a trusted, modern utility delivering 
value now and into the future. However, providing water to prospective customers has become harder to serve larger 
population and greater water coverage due to limitation of capacities of water supply schemes. Therefore, it is required 
to reduce water wastage before and after the meter and apply demand management approaches to allow increased water 
availability and provide water to more population. Application of the Connection Guidelines supports the GOSL objective to 
provide clean water to all its citizens and WS Providers’ intent of increasing water coverage in the country. The Connection 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 4A
Guidelines only apply to declared water supply service areas by respective WS Providers. Any development activities in 
these Water Supply areas must comply with the Connection Guidelines. It is the applicant’s responsibility to follow adequate 
quality assurance processes when applying for connections in accordance with the Connection Guidelines. Any deviation 
from the Connection Guidelines should comply with the national standard requirements. Then only such deviation would be 
considered by WS Providers. WS Providers may amend any existing technical, procedural and charging documents at any 
time with the approval of the supervisory and/or regulatory institution where appropriate and stakeholders will be consulted 
during any such review. 
2.2 GEnERaL  PRinciPLES
In order to deliver compliant water connection, the following principles apply: 
 1. WS Providers shall apply their technical, procedural, and commercial requirements in a fair, equitable and  
consistent manner.
 2.  WS Providers may request that water connections are upgraded to meet current standards whenever ownership 
is changed, or when a change in supply system is proposed; Administrative documents to be reviewed at a 
nominal fee. Upgrade to be done considering benefits to customer and WS Provider.  
 3. WS Providers may apply conditions that are specific to a particular project that may not be included in technical, 
procedural, or Commercial documents. WS Providers shall aware the customers such as early as possible. (This 
will be applicable in exceptional circumstances) 
3.  RiGhTS  anD  oBLiGa TionS  
3.1 aPPLicanT ’ S  RiGhTS  anD  oBLiGa TionS  
 An applicant has the right to apply for a new water connection, upgrade an existing connection, to their premises or 
development activity. 
 An applicant shall obtain an LA’s assessment number, consent of the owner of the property and necessary approvals from 
respective LAs where necessary, prior to commencing any development activity. 
 An applicant shall comply with all technical, procedural and commercial requirements and any conditions issued. Ensure 
the applicant’s rights and obligations according to Right to Information (RTI) Act
3.2 WS PRoviDERS ’ RiGhTS  anD  oBLiGa TionS  
Upon receipt of an application for water supply connection, WS Providers provide: 
 •  Preliminary advice; 
 •  Approval letter (with or without conditions); or 
 •  Letter of rejection. 
 
 WS Providers are not obligated to provide a new water connection, upgrade an existing connection, or accept an increased 
load on its infrastructure if it is not commercially/ technically feasible /viable to do so. WS Providers may, if it becomes aware 
of development activity of which no assessment has been obtained, serve a written notice requesting that the Connection 
Guidelines (or any other Guidelines, standard or legislation) is complied with in a specified period of time. 
 All water supply providers shall comply with the Consumer Protection Laws in Sri Lanka. As per clause 32 of the 
Consumer Affairs Authority Act No. 9 of 2003, In every contract for the supply of goods or for the provision of services 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 5A
by any person in the course of a business of supply of such goods or provisions of such services to a consumer, there is an 
implied warranty that
 (a)   the services will be provided with due care and skill ; 
 (b)   that any materials supplied in connection with provision of such services will be reasonably fit for the purpose 
for which they are supplied ; 
 (c)   the goods supplied or services provided will be in conformity with the standards and specifications determined 
under section 12 of the Act ; and 
  (d)  the goods supplied will be reasonably fit for the purpose for which they are supplied. 
3.3 DiSPuTES  
 Any disputes between an applicant and WS Providers regarding the application of the Connection Guidelines can be 
lodged to Ministry in charge of Water Supply by customers of NWSDB and CBO schemes, relevant Provincial Councils, by 
customers of Local Authority base water supply schemes. 
 Where issues cannot be resolved internally, the matter may be referred by either party to the proposed Water Industry 
Regulator (after establishment) for settlement.
4.  TEchnicaL  REquiREMEnTS  
 WS Providers should provide the following technical documents that apply to development activity and water connection 
with which an applicant must comply. 
 Proposed Documents are as follows and facilitate to access the applicants via the online also. 
4.1 TEchnicaL  DocuMEnTS  
 1. Water Supply Connection Guidelines by various WS Providers.
 2. Technical Guidelines required by developers, contractors and other service providers to use for planning, design and 
construction of water supply infrastructure including water demand and storage guideline.
 3. The National Plumbing Guidelines for water services 
 4. Standard Water Supply material and equipment’s Manual
  A list of material and equipment to be installed by customer shall comply with relevant SLS standards. If the SLS 
standards are not available, use standards acceptable to SLSI. 
 5. Standard Design Drawings 
  A series of design drawings for use in infrastructure and laying standards readily available with WS Providers to be 
given to applicants. 
 6. WS Providers - Water Metering Code 
  WS Providers are required, for the purpose of measuring the amount of water supplied to a customer, to install a 
meter on the land to which the water supply is made available or in any other location. Furthermore, Water Metering 
Code setting out the arrangements and conditions for installing, testing, verifying and replacing meters owned by 
the WS Providers. This code shall also contain the conditions on which a portable meter will be issued and the 
conditions relating to its use. The Water Metering Code sets out the rights and responsibilities of an applicant and the 
WS Providers in relation to metering of potable water.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 6A
5. PRocEDuRaL  REquiREMEnTS
    
   Under these connection guidelines, there are certain documents and application forms are developed to be used by WS 
Providers and customers. 
 5.1 GEnERaL  PRocEDuRaL  REquiREMEnTS  foR  ThE  noTifica Tion, aSSESSMEnT , aPPRov aL  
of Wa TER  SuPPL y connEcTionS  
     These general procedural requirements are designed to help the applicants in meeting their obligations as detailed in the 
Connection Guidelines and are supported by a range of other specific procedural documents and application forms.
5.1.1 Express the intention to Get Supply
 If an applicant intends to obtain a water supply connection for their requirement, should contact WS Providers as early 
as possible by providing all necessary information about the requirement. This will assist WS Providers in undertaking 
a preliminary assessment for the possibility of giving water supply connection. WS Providers may maintain necessary 
technical data bases physically or digitally to avoid conflict and disagreements within this process. Further to maintain data 
on information of customer requests.
5.1.2 assessment
 WS Providers will assess and provide formal response on the procedural, technical, and financial requirements for the 
proposed Connection Applications submitted.  If it is a development activity a more comprehensive assessment is needed. 
5.1.3 one unit of WS Provider to handle with customers.
 WS Providers will have one unit to handle with customers and all prearrangements with regard to water connection, 
including approval from road authorities to be arranged by this unit. This unit will obtain the service of other units to give 
water supply connections. WS Provider will maintain an updated effective data base of service line locations with roads and 
related road agency locations officials etc.  
5.1.4 Road Damages and Reinstatement  
 Trenching works and road reinstatement to be done with higher level of quality 
5.1.5 Plumbing works within the premises. 
The applicant will need to engage Qualified Plumbers (Accredited Plumbers by CIDA subjected to the availability of CIDA 
publication or Plumbers registered with that WS Provider), to undertake plumbing works within the premises in accordance 
with the Connection Guidelines. If the building area is more than 500 M
2  Chartered Engineers certification is required. Type 
plans are available with WS Providers for the different requirements of the applicants.
5.1.6 completion of construction and obtaining clearance. 
     Upon completion of construction as per all set guidelines and type plans, the applicant should get the    Certification on 
Compliance from the Qualified Plumbers (Accredited Plumber by CIDA subjected to the availability of CIDA publication 
or Plumbers registered with that WS Provider). 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 7A
5.1.7 completion of connection to System
     WS Providers should connect to the system within 3 days of time, after satisfying them that all requirements which are 
expected to be fulfilled by the applicant is complete.  During this connection handing over, an acknowledgment should 
be obtained with feedback from the applicant that the connection was given as per the Connection Guidelines and the 
applicant’s requirement. WS Providers shall establish overall data processing and management system to have transparency 
of the entire transaction. 
5.1.8 Water Storage facilities 
It is recommended to have required water storage facilities at the customer premise. 
5.1.9 Rainwater harvesting arrangement
Arrangement to harvest rainwater as per Urban Development Authority (UDA) regulations within their premises/ development 
activity should be satisfy themselves before approving the building plan by Municipal and Urban councils. WS Provider 
should give priority for them and asses accordingly when applicant request the water supply connection. 
5.1.10 inspection by WS Providers Beyond Meter  
     To assist and improve the drinking water quality and standards, it is important to have in place random inspection schedules 
by the WS Providers beyond the meter of customers upon request of the customer. WS Providers may arrange gender 
balance teams (subjected to the availability) for inspections. Customers to bear the inspection cost of the WS Providers and 
customers also shall make the necessary repairs to avoid water contamination and pollution within its premises as per the 
legal requirements and standards. 
5.1.11 illegal usage of Water 
     All the WS Providers should have a penalty formula to deal with the illegal usage of water by consumers and this has 
to be very clearly communicated during the supply of the water connection and widely disseminated through different 
communication means.
5.1.12 complaint handling System
     WS Providers should establish an efficient and reliable complaint handling system within their organizational system and 
make aware customers from the beginning.
5.1.13 a wareness Materials
WS Providers should disseminate awareness materials to reduce water wastage after the water meter.
5.2 WS PRoviDERS ’ aPPLica Tion foRMS / DocuMEnTS  
     WS Providers should have simplified series of documents, instruction guides, and application forms to facilitate application 
for connecting water supply and certification.  
5.3 Wa TER  connEcTion DRa WinG  foRMa T
 The different plans for plumbing and installation of equipment and fittings for water connections should be readily 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 8A
available with WS Providers which will be develop in consultation with community members including women, especially 
those from low-income households in CBO manage schemes and provided to applicants or give access to website. Adequate 
awareness should be done on this and recognized as “approved to construct drawings”.  
5.4 WS Providers’ Disinfection Procedure for newly connected   customers for Pipelines and Equipment  
 WS Providers should advice newly connected customers to go for disinfection (chlorination and bacteriological treatments 
and tests) on their internal Pipelines and Equipment. Procedure should be included in the Plumbing Guidelines
6.  coMMERciaL  REquiREMEnTS  
6.1 GEnERaL  
     Charges related to water supply connection by WS Providers to be followed given in the pricing formula/ guideline with 
the approval of the supervising/regulating institution where appropriate and stakeholders will be consulted during any such 
review.
     However, WS Providers have a range of charges related to water supply connection application including but not 
necessarily limited to: 
• Connections;
• Capital contributions;
• Road reinstatement charges;
• Recoverable works; and
• Administrative services. 
All the prearrangements with regard to water connection, including obtaining approval from various entities (e.g. Necessary 
Local Authority Approval, Road Excavation Approval) should be done by WS Providers.
WS Providers to arrange general accepted and convenient payment options.  
WS Providers shall have their charges and fees published. 
6.2 SEcuRiTy DEPoSiT
     WS Providers may require an applicant to lodge security cash deposit. For the construction sites or the proposed 
development activity for the specific time with change of customer after completion of construction, security deposit may 
provide in the form of a financial bond.  Application of security will be assessed by WS Providers taking into account the 
risk to WS Providers’ infrastructure, services and other liability
7. nEcESSaR y aPPLica Tion foRMS  anD  inSTRucTivE  DocuMEnTS
7.1 GEnERaL
 1. Informative Document Process for Obtaining Water   Connection
 2. Application Form for Express the Intention and to Get Water Supply Connection of ½ inches and  ¾ inches for 
Domestic/ Nondomestic
 3. Application Forms for Clearance of Water Supply Provider for Development Activity 
 4. Separate Application procedure for other above (more than ¾ inches) for Domestic/ Nondomestic 
 5. Instructive Documents to fill up the above Applications.
 6. Updated pricing formula/ guideline for different types of water supply connections and security deposits 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 9A
7.2 TEchnicaL  DocuMEnTS
 1. Water Supply Connection Guidelines by various WS Providers. 
 2. How to position Water Facilities within the premises.
 3. The National Plumbing Guidelines for water services 
 4. Standard Water Supply material and equipment’s Manual. 
 5. WS Providers’ Standard Drawings for Water Connection. 
 6. WS Providers’ Disinfection Procedure for Newly Connected Customers for Pipelines and Equipment  
 7. Water meter application multi metering for condominiums and multiple dwellings
 8. WS Providers - Water Metering Code and Smart Metering details (if available)
7.3 Documents to fulfill the Procedural Requirements of Water Supply Connection
 1. Updated List of Accredited Plumbers by CIDA 
 2. Formats for informing the Completion of Construction and Customer feedback.  
 3. Formats for Agreement Form with WS Providers and Consumers. 
 4. Dispute Reporting Formats for customers of NWSDB and CBO manage schemes to Ministry in charge of Water 
Supply, customers of Local Authority based schemes to respective Provincial Councils and all customers to Water 
Industry Regulator once the Independent Regulator in place. 
 5. Format for Random Inspection Report for Customer Premises.
8. GEnERaL
8.1   DEfiniTionS
8.1.1 “connection Guidelines” means a gazetted and published guidelines by Ministry in charge for Water Supply for new 
water supply connections, upgrade of connections and connection related activities which are necessarily follow by WS 
Providers;
8.1.2 “connection” means physical connection from WS Providers’ infrastructure to a lot, property, building, premises or 
area of development activity including construction sites;
8.1.3 “WS Providers” means any water supply providers mandated and authorized with specific acts and authority to 
distribute water to the customers (NWSDB, Local Authorities, CBOs etc. ) through connected pipeline;
8.1.4 “customer” means the owner, lessee or occupier of any premises, the receiver, attorney, agent, manager, guardian, 
or committee of such owner, lessee or occupier, or any other person in charge or having the control or possession of any 
premises in the right of the owner, or having possession in his own right or in that of his wife or any other person;
8.1.5 “infrastructure” means the assets under ownership of WS Providers; 
8.1.6 “Development activity”  means works either proposed or actualized that needs any changes to the existing or future 
infrastructure or services of WS Providers;
8.1.7 “Distributing pipe” means any pipe conveying water supplied by the WS Providers and directly connected to the 
supply pipe and owned by the consumer;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 10A
8.1.8 “premises” means any dwelling house, hotel, shop, office, or any place of business, together with its appurtenances.
8.1.9 “service pipe or main” means any pipe line of the water supply system owned and controlled by the water supply 
providers and intended for the distribution of water;
8.1.10 “Supply pipe” means a pipe directly subject to water pressure from a service pipe or main and owned by the 
consumer;
8.1.11 “Potable water” means that is suitable for human consumption (intended for use as drinking or cooking) and meets 
Sri Lankan Drinking Water Guidelines as per SLSI and WHO standards;
8.1.12 “non-potable water” means that is not intended for drinking water, but may be used for other purposes dependent 
on water quality;
8.1.13 “Wastewater” means that has been used. Includes greywater (from bath, showers and washing machines) and 
backwater (from toilets);
8.1.14 “water for domestic purposes” means a supply of water for use on premises for the reasonable drinking, washing, 
cleaning, cooking’ and sanitary requirements of the consumer;
8.2 DEScRiPTion/DEfiniTionS
 
8.2.1 Plumbing to be done by persons holding a license.
 
    For the purpose of these rules no plumbing or fitting of any description whatsoever, in relation to, or in connection with, 
the water supply system, shall be done either inside, or outside of any premises except by a person or persons holding a 
license to carry out such work which shall have been issued by the CIDA or plumbers registered with WS Providers. This 
rule shall apply to all existing installations, repairs to same, and to all new works. (This will be applied only when the 
availability of sufficient number of registered plumbers)
8.2.2 Stop valve on supply pipe.
 Every supply pipe shall be fitted, inside the premises, with a stop valve with an area of waterway of a size and type to be 
approved by these guidelines and such stop valve shall, if below the surface of the ground, be suitably protected by a cement 
concrete box of approved type and size and fitted with a proper cover.
8.2.3 Record of meter to be accepted as correct.
(1) Consumption of all water used will be measured by a meter which is the property of the WS Providers, and the consumer 
is bound to accept the registered figure as correct, unless it is proven to the satisfaction of the WS Providers that there is some 
defect in the mechanism of the meter. 
(2) If a meter for any reason ceases, omits or otherwise fails to register the quantity of water consumed, a consumer shall pay 
in respect of water supplied a reasonable sum in respect of any such period (not exceeding three months) of meter failure, 
based on the amount of the consumption of such consumer to be ascertained by comparison with periods of like duration. 
8.2.4 Sale of water 
 Except with the permission of the WS Providers no consumer shall be permitted to sell water to any other person. Such 
permission may be granted on such terms and conditions as the WS Providers may deem fit.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 11A
8.2.5 interference with meters
No meter shall be removed or interfered with under any circumstances, except by a person in the employ of the WS Providers.
 
8.2.6 notice of discontinuance or supply
(1) The owner of any house or premises supplied with water by the WS Providers, or any other person liable for payment of 
charges for water, shall give to the WS Providers notice in writing of his intention to discontinue the use of such water or of 
the intention on the part of the occupier to vacate such house or premises, seven clear days before such discontinuance or 
such vacation and if such person neglects to give such notice, he shall be liable to pay for all water registered by the meter 
until the use of the water is discontinued or the house or premises become vacant, as the case may be whichever is the later 
date. 
(2) The notice required by paragraph (1) of this rule shall be of no effect unless it be in writing signed by or on behalf of the 
person liable for payment of the water charges and be left at or sent by prepaid registered letter post to the office of the WS 
Providers.
8.2.7 Supply of water to builders and construction sites
 Water may be supplied to builders and construction sites (If any other sources are not available) for the purpose of erecting 
new buildings or altering or extending existing buildings or a part thereof.
 
8.2.8 inspections
 Any person appointed by the WS Providers for the purposes of to inspect and examine pipes, meters, fittings, works and 
apparatus for the supply of water shall be dressed either in the uniform clothing of the WS Providers and provided with an 
authority signed by a responsible official of the WS Providers, which said authority must be produced if required by the 
owner or occupier of any premises which are being inspected
8.2.9 Waste of water
     The consumer shall maintain good order and condition in all pipes, faucets, valves, flushing cisterns and fittings of every 
description within the premises and shall be liable for all waste whatsoever the cause. The inspector appointed by the WS 
Providers shall have the right of access at all times to the premises to examine for waste and shall have authority to serve 
notice upon the consumer to repair any defect within forty-eight hours. If the consumer neglects to remedy such a defect 
within the time specified in the notice, then the WS Providers shall have the power to enter and cut off the supply.
8.2.10 Road reinstatement charges
 The charge for road reinstatement occasioned by trenching and damage to any service pipe or main shall be borne by the 
customer at the rate given by the WS Providers so requiring reinstatement.
8.2.11 Rainwater harvesting
 Rainwater is a universal resource, harvested from roofs and ground catchments, safely stored and/or infiltrated, treatable 
as its end use. Rainwater Harvesting is mandatory in all areas under Municipal and Urban council jurisdiction for new 
buildings of roof area more than 500 M
2  under the UDA regulations. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 12A
attachment a  –Process for obtaining Water connection
Process steps Requirements/ Responsibilities fulfill 
by applicants Services by WS Providers
Step 1
Express the intention to Get 
Supply
Accurately completed Application Form 
to obtain water connection.
Step 2
assessment
To check the suitability of water supply 
connection and inform applicant if it is 
not viable.
Step 3
Estimate connection charges Pay estimated connection charges
Issue estimate including road 
reinstatement charges if the connection 
is viable
Step 4
Plumbing works within the 
premises.
Arrange Plumbing certificate.
Plumbing certificate to be submitted 
together with the Application Form to 
obtain water connection, for completed 
buildings.
Check the required certification.
Step 5
completion of new connection 
to System
Customer feed back to be filled and 
certified.
Completion report to be prepared. 
Meter reader to accept the Meter 
placement.
Step 6
Disinfection Procedure
Disinfection of internal Pipelines and 
Equipment to be carried out as per the 
Plumbing Guideline.
Advice customers

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 13A
 
aPPLica Tion foR ExPRESS ThE inTEnTion anD T o GET ThE W a TER SER vicE connEcTion
For office use only 
a. applicant and Location Details  
 01. Full Name : - 
 02. Name with Initials : - 
 03. Address of the Place : - 
  
04. National Identity Card Number /Driving License Number/Passport Number : -     
              
05.  E-mail : 
  06. Telephone Number :    Residence :     
        Mobile :                 
 07. District :      08. Divisional Secretariat :
       Division :
 09. Grama Niladhari            GN number : 
   Division : 
 10.  Local Authority Assessment No. 
 11.  Category  of new connection  applied for 
   Domestic    Required daily Water Consumption (litre)  
   Commercial
   Industrial 
   Other 
 Water Service Provider:   Registration number: -
 Water Service institution:  
Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 14A
 12.  The tentatative date of water connection required     
 13.  Whether the applicant will excavate the trench for laying water pipes :   
                                   
    Yes                
    
    No 
                  (Obtain the specifications for excavation from the relevant Office of the WS Provider)
 14. Location Details
  Outline the route to the site with complete details required to easily locate the location where the water connection 
is required. (Attach another diagram if needed. If GPS coordinates can be recorded it will be easier in the future) 
15.
To record GPS Coordinates
Latitude (N) Longitudinal (E)
  If the applicant is permanent residence of another place, its address:
b. Previous Water connection Details  
 16. Has water connection been obtained before this location/premises or subdivision of the premises? 
 
 Yes      No  

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 15A
 17.  If yes, the account no. : 
 18.  Previous water connection from
            (National Water Supply and Drainage Board – NWSDB/ LA/Community Base Organization CBO) 
  NWSDB  Local Authority    
  CBO Scheme 
 19.  Reason for applying new Connection: 
 
c. Details of household 
 20.  Number of Persons in Household 
 21.  Details of Household 
  
Single storey  building 
Double storey building 
Multi storey building 
22.  If the application for commercial purpose 
 Boarding Rooms  
 
 Tuition Class
 
 Shop 
  
 Medical Clinic / Dispensary 
  
 Private Hospitals      
  
d. Declaration by the applicant 
I here by certify that the information given by me above is correct and true to best of my knowledge 
………………………………………….
  Applicant Signature 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 16A
e. Construction/Plumbing Certificate :
Certification by Accredited Plumber 
(subjected to the availability of CIDA publication)
 01. Types Plans used for Plumbing and Construction 
1     5   9 
2     6   10
3    7   11 
4    8   12 
02. Proof documents for the fittings and equipments used 
03. Rain Water Harvesting arrangement is made within the premises/development activities 
Yes      No    
04. Gray Water re use mechanism is          
 Available     
Not available    
05. I certify /do not certify the construction, Plumbing work and installation of water related equipment was done 
as per the guidelines setout by the Water Supply Provider and recommend/not recommend the water supply 
connection 
Accredited Plumbing Name  
Accredited membership Number 
 
Signature  of Accredited Plumber 
               
Date:-
        
f. Charted Civil Engineers Certification 
   (Only for buildings total flow area more than 500 M2 )
01.  I certify /do not certify the constrution, Plumbing work and installation of water related equipment was done as per 
the guidelines setout by the Water Supply Provider and recommend/not recommend the water supply connection 
Chartered Civil Engineers Name:- 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 17A
 Membership Number:-
Signature of Chartered Civil Engineer       
 Date:-     
g.  Office Use Only
1.   Technical Suitability give Water Connection
         
                                                   Yes No
  2.   If technically not viable to give connection, briefly reason out?
 Name of the site Inspection officer: -
 Date of Inspection: -
         
       Signature: -
Date: -
 03.  Verification 
Verified by: -
Designation: -
Signature: -
 Date: -
04.  Water supply connection is not possible / Recommended for estimate.
 Authorized officer’s Name: -
Designation: -
      
      
     

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 18A
 Signature: -
 Date: -
h. Terms and Reference
01. I hereby declare my willingness to become a subscriber subject to the details of my water application.
02. I agree to take water connection within 3 months after paying the connection fee.
03. Fully and continuously agree that my water connection will not supply water to the drinking water needs of any other 
resident and if so, provided you agree to pay reasonable compensation for disconnection of my water connection.
04. I acknowledge that you have the power to check the functioning of the water meter provided and installed at my 
expense.
05. I agree to pay the water bills within the relevant period and if I fail to do so, I am bound to pay the fines charged.
06. In the event of a period of drought, I am committed to receiving a specified amount of water as prescribed.
07. If the place where the water connection is obtained changes due to any reason, I agree to notify the same in writing 
and pay the service charges due for the same.
08. Agree to transfer ownership of residential land or house in case of transfer/sale/rental/lease.
09. I am bound to bear the costs of internal pipe networks, fittings, repair, installation of spare parts or any other type 
of work.
10. I agree to ensure cleaning storage tanks, equipment as glasses, bottles for maintain the quality of provided water. 
11. I agree to minimize wastage of treated water & reuse the water whenever possible. 
12. I agree to assist your inspections to check the water quality and internal plumbing work.
 
 
  

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 19A
NEW WATER SERVICE CONNECTION COMPLETION REPORT
          
 
a. customers Details 
01.   Name with Initials: - 
 
02.   Address of the Place: - 
  
 03.  National Identity Card Number /Driving License Number/Passport Number: -  
 
 
 04.  E-mail : 
 04.  Telephone Number:       Residence :  
           Mobile :                            
 
 06.  Category  of new connection   
 07. Type of Residence 
 
 08.  Draw clear sketch with distance measurements.
To record GPS Coordinates
Latitude (N) Longitudinal (E)
 Registration number: -  Water Service Provider: 
 file number:  -
  Water Service institution:  
  Date of connection Provided: 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 20A
 09.  If the applicant is permanent residence of another place, its address:
b. connection Line and work Details 
10. Service Line Details
Distribution Main DiameterType of the main 
Existing Common Main DiameterDepth of the Water Main
11. Extended Common Main Details ( If Any )
Common Main DiameterLength
Depth to the Water Main Distance to the new connection
No. of connection applied 
12. Details of provided connections.
Size of the service connectionSize of the Water Meter
Meter No. Meter Brand Name
No. of Digits Initial Reading
Seal Tag Serial No.
13. Time Consumption
Backhoe Hr. Breaker Hr.
Aspilt Cutter Hr. Completion of the work Hr.
14. Details of Duty Gang
Pipe Fitter Labour I
Labour II Labour III
Driver Backhoe Operator
Vehical No. Backhoe No.
c.  Meter Placement & Proposed account  number 
  
 15. Meter placement is convienion for the reading:       Yes                        No 
        16.  Account Number & Address of right side premises 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 21A
    17. Account Number & Address of left  side premises
18. Proposed Account Number
                     
 
             
   Meter Readers Name .........................................................................................      Signature............................................
d. Remarks 
 Officer:-   Name  ......................................................................................................     Signature ...........................................
                 
                 Designation …………………………………………….                             Date ……………………………
e.  customers feedback
01. Time taken to obtain Cost Estimate.        
02. Time taken to make the Payment after receiving the Estimate. 
03. Time taken to give Water Connection after the Payment.
04. Any additional fittings requested by WS Provider.
05. Agreed with the place of the Water Meter.                        Yes                             No 
06. Any water leak after the installation of Water meter.       Yes                             No  
07. All damaged places were repaired.                                       Yes                            No 
08. Depth of the trench excavated for the house connection. 
09. Materials used for bedding during the installation
10. Materials used to surround the connection after installation 
11. Road damages were reinstated satisfactorily.                    Yes                            No
12. Time taken to reinstate the trench after the installation. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 22A
13. Your system was tested after assembly.    Yes                             No             
14. How do you rate the Service                 Excellent                 Good                  Average                       Poor
       (Application to Completion)    
15. Suggestions to enhance the efficiency of the house connection process.
               
     
      Signature of Customer …………………………………………….    Date …………………………………………

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 23A
RanDoM inSPEcTion  REPoRT foR cuST oMER PREMiSES
          
 
a. customers Details 
01. Name with Initials : - 
02. Address of the Place : - 
  
03. National Identity Card Number /Driving License Number/Passport Number : -      
 
04. E-mail : 
05. Telephone Number :       Residence :     
   Mobile :                 
07.  If the Customers permanent residence is another place, its address :
b. Water quality 
 08.  Following test will be carried out  at the premises   
 Total Disolved Salt (TDS)
 Residual Chlorine (RCL)        
 PH 
 Turbidity                                  
 09.  Frequency of cleaning storage tank       
  account number: -
Water Service Provider: 
Water Service institution: 
Date of inspection: 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'04'01
Part I: Sec. (I) – Gazette  extraordInary of the democratIc SocIalISt rePublIc of SrI  lanka – 01.04.2024
 24A
c. Water Wastage
 10.   Check water meter reading after closing all the taps  
                No Change                                                            Meter Working 
 11. If the meter is working check the visible leaks in the system, all pipe fitting and valves and note details.
 1 2 . W h e t h e r  t h e  s t a n d a r d  p i p e  fi t t i n g s  w e r e  i n s t a l l e d  ?         Y e s                                                                        No
           
 13. Who did the Plumbing work? Qualified Plumber         
   Mason                          
   Any Other Person 
d. Recomendation
Officer 1 :-  Name  .........................................................................................    Signature ………………………………….
                 
                    Designation …………………………………………….                       Date ……………………………
Officer 2 :- Name  ..........................................................................................    Signature ………………………………….
                 
                    Designation …………………………………………….                       Date ……………………………
EOG 04 - 0013
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI  LANkA .