

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
T. B. EKANAYAKE FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, N O. 14 OF 2012
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 06th June, 2012]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 08, 2012

<!-- page 2 -->

1T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
2—PL 005066—  3090 (07/2010)
Short title.
[Certified on 06th June, 2012]
L.D.—O. Inc. 26/2010.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE T. B. EKANAYAKE FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as
“T. B. Ekanayake Foundation” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters  for which it was formed, and has applied to be
incorporated :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1.  This Act may be cited as the T. B. Ekanayake
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012.
2.  From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
T. B. Ekanayake Foundation (hereinafter referred to as
“the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be
a body corporate with perpetual succession under the
name and style of the “T. B. Ekanayake Foundation” and
by that name may sue and be sued,with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3.  The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to conduct special support services, to grant aid, to
give prizes, to provide library facilities and
Incorporation
of the
T. B. Ekanayake
Foundation.
Preamble.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
necessary incitement for study for the needy
students ;
(b) to carry out special support programmes for school
children who sit national level examinations such
as the scholarship examination G. C. E. (Ordinary
Level) examination and the G. C. E. (Advanced
Level) examination ;
(c) to provide the modalities for evaluating cultural
skills of school children and to confer awards and
certificates to children with aptitudes in order to
promote their cultural skills ;
(d) to implement special training programmes which
would inculcate social, religious values and ethics
among the youth with a view to producing a
generation of youth who would give importance to
such practices ;
(e) to conduct workshops, discussions and conferences
for training teachers of Dhamma Schools and pre
schools and to encourage opening of new pre-
schools ;
(f) to implement leadership camps and workshops for
senior students in order to mould them for leadership
and to educate them for successful living ;
(g) to implement practical programmes for promoting
physical health of student population through
sanitation and health practices programmes and
sports ;
(h) to organize and operate educational tours,
Shramadana campaigns and workshops in order
to create awareness on Sri Lanka heritage,
environment, wildlife, population and patriotism ;

<!-- page 4 -->

3T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
(i) to provide assistance and to encourage forming
scout groups and platoons in schools ;
(j) to grant assistance for services rendered by Senior
Citizens Organizations and to encourage such
organizations to continue such participation ;
(k) to grant support and assistance in carrying out
informal education programmes, special education
programmes and adult education programmes which
are in operation at present ;
(l) to organize awareness programmes on promotional
aspects to farmers engaged in traditional and
export agricultural activities and to improve their
activities ;
(m) to take necessary action to provide required
assistance and support and training to unemployed
youth in order to enable them to engage in self
employment activities ;
(n) to work in collaboration with local and foreign
organizations the objects of which are similar to
those of the Corporation;  and
(o) to promote special projects for protection of the
environmental heritage, fauna and flora and
endemic birds  in the North Western Province.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall be managed
by a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting of eleven members including the President, the
Secretary and the Treasurer to be elected subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules made
under section 6 of the Act.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection
(1), the President of the Foundation shall be the first President
of the Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
(3) The first Board shall consist of the members of the
Governing Board holding  office on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board shall hold the office for a
period of four years unless such member vacates the office
earlier by reason of such member’s death or resignation. In
case a vacancy occurs in the Board by reason of death or
resignation of a member, such vacancy shall be filled by
appointing a new member and such new member shall hold
the office for a period of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to accept and collect any grants or donations, to invest the
funds of the Corporation and to appoint, employ and dismiss
officers and servents required for carrying out of all or any
one of the objects of the Corporation.
6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of  not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this  Act or any other written law on all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) classification of members, membership fees
payable by members, admission, removal, expel
and resignation of members ;
(b) procedure to be observed in summoning meetings
and in the transaction of business as meetings of
the Corporation and the Directorate, the quorum of
General Powers
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
such meetings and exercise of their powers and
discharge of their duties ;
(c) appointment of various officers, agents and
servants, their powers, functions and duties ;
(d) administration and management of the property of
the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded in the same manner it was
made under subsection (1) at a like meeting.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7.  All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8.  (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund. Gifts,
bequests, donations, contributions, charges and grants may
be deposited in any bank or several banks in the name of the
Corporation as decided by the Board.
  (2) All expenditure incurred in exercising and putting into
practice of powers and implementing activities of the
Corporation under this Act shall be paid from  the funds of
the Corporation.
9.  The Corporation shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose
of the Corporation and subject to the rules made under section
6, shall have full  power to mortgage, sell, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of  the same.
Debts payable
by and payable
to the
Corporation.
The Corporation
may hold
movable or
immovable
property.
Funds of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
10.  No member of the Corporation shall be liable to pay
any contribution exceeding the membership fees due from
the Corporation, for the purpose of paying and settling debts
and liabilities of the Corporation.
11. In case of dissolution of the Corporation, whatever
property left, after settlement of its debts and liabilities, shall
not be distributed among its members, but shall be transferred
to any establishment or establishments objects of which
are identical to those of the Corporation and which prohibit
the distribution, of its income or property among its
members. Members of the Corporation shall, at or prior to
the dissolution of the Corporation, determine the
establishment or establishments to which such property shall
be transferred.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Board shall cause proper accounts to be kept of
its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other
transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor appointed by the Board.
(4) In this section“qualified auditor” means-
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka, or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by
such   Institute; or
(b) a firm of accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
Limitation
liability of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Accounting and
auditing.

<!-- page 8 -->

7T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
established  by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by
such Institute.
13.  The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
President and one member of the Board who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 T. B. Ekanayake Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2012
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .