

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.01.2011
77
77
wxl 1"690 - 2011 ckjdß ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'01'21
No. 1,690 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 21, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 79
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 28th January, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th
January, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.01.2011
78
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.01.2011
79
Posts – Vacant
OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES  COMMISSION
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
are physically fit and bearing excellent moral character and
possessing requisite qualifications conforming to this notice to fill
vacancy in the following post in the Official Languages Commission.
Language Officer (Trilingual) cum Research Officer.
02. Applications prepared as per specimen application shown
below should be addressed to the Chairman, Official Languages
Commission, "Bhasha Mandiraya", No. 341/7, Kotte road,
Rajagiriya. The post applied by you should be marked on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application and they
should be sent by registered post to the above mentioned address
on or before 18.02.2011. Late applications will not be entertained.
Language Officer (Trilingual) cum Research Officer (01 post)
(i) Qualifications and experience :
(a) Should possess a degree from a recognized university,
(b) Should have experience in trilingual (Sinhala, Tamil and
English) translation,
(c) Should have computer literacy,
(d) Should have engaged in research work.
Note.– Preference will be given to applicants who have
translated books into Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
(ii) Age limit.– Not below 30 years and not over 45 years of
age as at 18.02.2011. (The upper age limit shall not apply
to officers in the Public Service, Provincial Public Service
and employees of State Corporations or Boards.)
(iii) Salary scale. – The salary scale attached to the post is
Rs. 24,725 - 5 x 550- 5 x 645 -15 x 770 - Rs. 42,250 per
month. (Appointee can be placed on a point in the scale
depending on the qualifications and experience).
(iv) Method of recruitment. – Recruitment will be done on the
result of an interview by a special panel appointed for this
purpose for the applicants possessing basic qualifications.
General Information and Application Procedure :
(a) The post is permanent. Appointee will contribute to the
Employees provident Fund. The employee's contribution
shall be 8% of the consolidated salary and the Commission
contribution shall be 12% of the consolidated salary of
the employee. In addition the Commission shall
contribute 3%  to the Employees Turst Fund.
(b) The probation period will be three years. Appointees
should during the period of probation pass the Advanced
Level I Language Course - Tamil in the case of Sinhala
Officers and Sinhala in the case of Tamil Officers -
conducted by the Official Languages Department.
(c) Appointee who do not attain the required level of
Language proficiency even within an extended period of
probation shall have his/her service terminated.
(d) Applications from officers in the Public Service,
Provincial Public Service, Statutory Boards/Corporations
should be forwarded through their respective Heads of
Dpartments/Institutions.
(e) Only the qualified applicants will be called for an interview.
Selections will be made on the results of the interview.
(f) Decisions regarding provisions other than those included
in this notice will be taken by the Official Languages
Commission.
(g) applications which are not in conformity with the above
terms will be rejected.
(h) Appointee should acquire proficiencies and competencies
which will be prescribed by the government from time to
time.
Chairman.
Official Languages Commission,
4th Floor,
"Bhasha Mandiraya",
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
January, 2011.
Official Languages Commission
APPLICATION FORM FOR THE POST OF .......................
01. Name of applicant :
1.01 Name with initials :––––––––––.
1.02 Name in full :––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.01 Permanent address :––––––––––.
2.02 Official address (if any) :––––––––––.
03. Sex :
Male 1
Female 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. Age (A copy of Birth Certificate to be annexed) :
4.01 Date of birth :––––––––––.
4.02 Age as at 18.02.2011 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
05. Marital status :––––––––––.
06. Nationality :––––––––––.
B2-B80190

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.01.2011
80
07. Qualifications (Copies of certificate to be annexed) :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) Year :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Year :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(iii) Degree :
Name of the Degree Year Class Subjcts
and the University
(iv) Diploma :
Name of the Diploma and year Class Subjects
the awarding institute
(v) Any other courses followed :
Name of the Name of the organization Course
Course that conducted the Course period
08. Experience :
Designation Organization Period Reason for leaving
09. Computer literacy (Copies of certificate to be annexed) :––––.
10. Have you ever been convicted in any offence in the Court of
Law ?
Yes/No.
(If Yes indicate particulars)
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am
aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false
or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified if the detection is made
before the appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Government
Department/Ministry/Authority etc.
I hereby forward the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................
who is employed in this Department/Ministry/Corporation/
Authority/Provincial Council as a ............... and his/her work and
conduct are satisfactory/not satisfactory. He can be released from
......................
Signature of the Head of the Department/Ministry/Corporation/
Provincial Council etc.
Name :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
–––––––––––,
Signature.
01–421
–––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILL
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF MAINTENANCE
ENGINEER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Maintenance Engineer
of the Department of Technical Education and Training.
Applications should be prepared according to specimen given
below with No. 01 to 07 appearing in 1st page and remains in 2nd
page and should be sent under registered cover to reach the "Director
General, Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O.
Box 557, Colombo 10" on or before 11.02.2011. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked "Post of Maintenance
Engineer" on the top left hand corner. Only those who are posses
basic qualifications according to Gazette notification will be called
to the interview.
02. Terms of Employment :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to contribute to the "Widows
and Orphans/Widower and Orphans" pension scheme
and will be placed on three years probation.
(b) Should liable to serve in any part of the island.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.01.2011
81
The Efficiency Bar :
(a) According to the Public Administration Circular No. 20/
2001, every officer appointed to a post should complete
1st Efficiency Bar before 4th step and 2nd efficiency bar
before 7th step of the Salary Scale. Failure to complete
the Efficiency Bar within the stipulated period will result
in the deferment of the increment and the period taken in
excess of the time allowed will be treated as a period of
deferment of increment.
(d) Officers appointed to these posts are expected to obtain
the ecompetency in second langauge within 05 years from
the date of appointment in accordance to the Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007. Failure to complete
the competency in the second language within the
stipulated period will result in the deferment of the
increment. It is necessary to pass the Sinhala/Tamil in
G . C. E (O/L) as a main subject (should not be a 2nd
language or optional subject) and pass the oral test held
by the Department of official languages or pass the special
skills examination held by the Department of official
languages as a language competencies of these officers.
03. Salary and allowances .– The monthly consolidated salary
scale relevant to this post is Rs. 22,935 - 645x10 - 790x8 - 1,050x17
- Rs. 53,555. Payments will be made in terms of P. A. Circular
6/2006. Payment of increment will be subjected to the completion
of the Efficiency Bar specified in Para 2 above.
04. Qualifications.– every applicant should produce the evidence
that they have obtained the following qualifications before the
closing date of applications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should not be less than 25 years and not more than 45
years of age on the closing date of applications. The
upper age limit does not apply to officers already in
government service.
(c) Should have excellent moral character and physically fit.
(d) Educational and other qualifications.
A degree in Mechanical Engineering obtained from a
recognized University ; and
05 years experience in maintenance of plant and machinery
in a factory/workshop recognized by the state.
05. Recruitment Procedure .– Candidates, fulfilled the basic
qualifications will be selected by appearing the Interview Board.
Secretary to the Ministry of Youth affairs and Skill Development
will be appointed on behalf of Public Service Commission.
06. Copies of following documents certified by you should be
attached with the application :
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Baptismal Certificate
or the Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of the
Code of Regulations for assisted Schools will not be
accepted).
(ii) Degree certificates with detail certificates or other
educational certificates.
(iii) Certificate of professional and/or technical qualifications
that confirm the experience.
(iv) Certificates of highest examination passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service must be
forwarded through the Heads of their respective Departments.
08. Reference is requested to General Conditions applicable to
appointments in the State Service, published at the beginning of
Section (IIA) of Part I of this Gazette.
09. Secretary to the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skill
Development reserves the right, not to fill the vacanices.
10. Clauses of sections 10-12 of Chapter II of Establishments
Code will relevant as suitable for the post.
S. S. H
EW APA THIRANA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skill Development.
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skill Development,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Elewitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
21st January, 2011.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF
MAINTENANCE ENGINEER OF THE DEP ARTMENT OF
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
01. Name with initials :
Initials at the end
(In Capital letters) Eg. : SILV A A. B.
02. Name in full :–––––––––.
03. ( a) official address :–––––––––.
(b) Private address :–––––––––.
(In capital letters)
(c) Personal telephone No. :–––––––––.
04. ( a) Whether a Sri Lankan :
Yes N o
05. ( a) Date of birth :
Year :     Month :   Date :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.01.2011
82
(b) National Identity Card No. :
06. Age as at closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Particulars of present post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :–––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :–––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :–––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :–––––––––.
(e) Department :–––––––––.
(f) Institute/Place of work :–––––––––.
08. Particulars of Educational Qualifications (Including certificates
of Proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil Languages :
Examination University/Institution Year Subject field
1.
2.
3.
4.
09. Previous appointments (to be stated in chronological order
with exact dates) :
Department/ Place of Desig- Whether From To Period
Institution work nation permanent
or temporary
1.
2.
3.
4.
10. Whether you have been convicted in a Court of Law ? If so give
details :–––––––––.
11. If served in a Government Department Corporation or board,
state reasons for termination of service :–––––––––.
12. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so
state details in brief :–––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained therein are found to be false and incorrect,
before selection, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal
without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
For candidates of Public and Provincial Public Service
Recommendation of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars contained in No. 01 to 12 of
above officer, are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––.
01–373
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.