

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2783
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"099 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'11'23
No. 2,099 –  FRiday ,  NoVEmbER 23, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th december, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th November, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2781-b 81470- 5,403 (11/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2782
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2783
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION & 
hIGhER EDuCATION 
Selection of Candidates to follow the full Time 
(Internal) Course of Post Graduate Diploma in 
Education in Academic year - 2019 
aPPLicatioNS are invited to select candidates for the 
study of one-y ear Full time (internal) Post Graduate 
diploma in Education course during the academic year 
2019.
02. this course will be held in the Universities of 
colombo, Peradeniya, Rajarata and Jaffna. 
03. Language medium/media in which the course will be 
conducted in each university are indicated below :
1. University of colombo - Sinhala medium and 
tamil medium
2. University of Peradeniya - Sinhala medium
3. University of Rajarata - Sinhala medium
4. University of Jaffna - tamil medium
application for the course can be made only in one 
medium. 
04. Every candidate should confirm that he/she is holding 
the following qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) Should not be more than 50 years of age as at 
21.12.2018.
 (iii) Should be in good health physically and mentally 
and should possess a good character. 
 (iv) Should be a graduate of a recognized University 
or should hold a degree or another equivalent 
qualification obtained from another Institute 
approved by the University Grants commission 
or the ministry of Higher Education.
 (v) Should have obtained a permanent appointment 
and serving in a relevant post in the following 
services :
 (a) * Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service
  * Sri Lanka Private School teachers' Service
  * Sri Lanka teachers' Service
 (b) Sri Lanka Principals' Service
 (c) Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service
 (d) Sri Lanka Education administrative Service
 (vi) Should have completed a service of one year as 
a Graduate in a post of the services indicated in 
Para. 04(v) as at 21.12.2018.
N.B. :
 (i) t eachers with National diploma in teaching 
will be qualified to apply only if they have 
completed the five-year compulsory period of 
service according to the bond in relation to their 
appointment by 21.12.2018 and have obtained the 
qualification mentioned in 4(vi).
 (ii) applicants who had taken on study leave and 
serving under a bond will be qualified to apply 
only if they have completed the compulsory period 
of service indicated in the bond as at 21.12.2018 
or have completed at least five (5) years out of the 
compulsory period. 
 (iii) applicants who hold the bachelor of Education 
degree will not be eligible to apply for following 
this course. 
05.  05.1 Method of Selection : 
 (i) Every candidate should sit a written 
examination. 
 (ii) thrice the number of candidates, who will 
be selected for the course will be called for 
the interview, based on the merit order of 
marks obtained by candidates in the written 
examination. 
 (iii) marks will be allocated at the interview for the 
period of service in the relevant post/posts of the 
service/services of the candidate as indicated 
in 4(v) of the Gazette Notification. 04 marks 
each for one year of service will be awarded. 
maximum marks provided for the service will 
be 40. Period of service of a candidate will be 
calculated using the date of assuming duties in 
the relevant post of his/her first appointment in 
the service from among the services indicated 
in 4(v).
N. B.– the applicant should possess a continuous 
service in a post/posts in a service/services 
mentioned in 4(v).

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2784
 (iv) the total of the marks obtained from the written 
examination and the marks obtained for the 
period of service will be treated as the fnal 
marks and the selection for the course will be 
made according to the order of such marks. 
 (v) if disabled candidates have applied for the 
course, 1% of the vacancies for candidates will 
be reserved for them. 
 (vi) the number of candidates to be selected 
for the course will be decided according to 
accommodation faciilties available in each 
university.
 05.2 Written examination : 
 (i) the written examination for selection conducted 
by the commissioner General of Examinations 
will be held in Sinhala and tamil medium in 
colombo and Jaffna. 
 (ii) candidates may appear for the examination at 
a preferred center selected from the two centers 
indicated above and in a medium of language 
they prefer. 
 (iii) candidates should act in accordance with the 
rules and regulations related to the examination 
as published by the commissioner General of 
Examination. 
 (iv) the written examination will consist of two 
question papers :
 (a) General Knowledge  – Question paper 
on currant affairs, General Knowledge, 
information on Education and issues (t ime 
: 01 hour)
 (b) Aptitude Test – Question paper on Language 
ability, comprehension, logic, arithmetical 
skills (time : 01 hour 30 minutes)
 05.3 Interview :
 (i) at the interview, candidates should substantiate 
that they are quailfied to follow the course under 
Para. 04 in the Gazette Notification. 
 (ii) candidates should submit to the interview board 
the documents required to confirm their period 
of service in the post/posts of a service/services 
indicated in 4(v) in the Gazette Notification. 
Specially the date of assuming duties in the 
post of first appoitment should be substantiated 
at the interview. it will assist the candidate in 
obtaining the marks assigned for the period of 
service. 
 (iii) teachers who apply for the course from 
Government registered Pirivenas and 
Government approved Private Schools should 
submit a statement at the interview, obtained 
from the Kruthyadhikari/manager of the 
Administrative Board certified as follows :
 (a) the teacher will be released for the course,
 (b) Salaries will be paid to the teachers during 
the period of study of the course, 
 (c) the teacher will be re-employed at the end 
of the course,
 (d) another teacher will not be recruited to fill 
the vacancy of the relevant teacher during 
the period of his/her study,
 (e) the duties of the teacher will be distributed 
among the approved teaching staff of the 
school. 
06. Method of Submission of Applications :
 (i) applications should be prepared using both 
sides of a a4 paper in conformity with the given 
specimen form. 
 (ii) the term, "an applicant visually impaired/
hearing impaired/having other special needs" 
should be written in red on the top left hand 
corner of the applications prepared for 
candidates who are visually impaired/hearing 
impaird/having other special needs. 
 (iii) Payment of examination Fees.– 
  a  sum of Rs. 900 should be paid as examination 
fees to the nearest post office and the receipt 
obtained should be affixed firmly in the cage 
provided for the purpose in the application. 
  Post Master General has been notified by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to 
make provisions to issue this receipt at all post 
offices from 23.11.2018 to 21.12.2018.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2785
 (iv) Submission of Applications :
 (a) the term "Post Graduate diploma in 
Education (internal) Full time course 2019" 
should be written on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope enclosing the application. 
 (b) applications should be sent under the 
registered post to reach commissioner 
General of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
department of Examinations, Evaluation 
and testing Service, Pelawatta, battaramulla 
on or before 21.12.2018.
 (c) a  copy of the application should be handed 
over to the personal file of the applicant 
through the Head of the department. if the 
applicant is selected to follow the course, it 
will assist in obtaining study leave. 
 (v) timetable and the admission cards will be 
posted to the candidates and if any candidate 
does not receive his/her admission card at least 
07 days prior to the date of the examination, he/
she should inform the commissioner General 
of Examinations, department of Examinations, 
Pelawatta, battaramulla including the following 
information : 
 (a) Name of Examination :
 (b) candidate's name in full :
 (c) address :
 (d) Post Office where fees were paid and 
Receipt No. : 
 (e) date of posting the application :
 (f) Post office where the application was 
posted and Receipt No. : 
 (vi) Refund of examinations fees or transfer of fees 
for any other examination will not be made 
under any circumstances. 
 (vii) incomplete applications will be rejected without 
further notification. 
 (viii) Every candidate should substantiate his/her 
identity at the written examination using a valid 
identity card. 
 (ix) the candidates will not be allowed to change 
the university after being selected to a particular 
university to follow the course. 
 (x) if it is revealed that a particular candidate 
has not fulfilled the requirements as per the 
Gazette Notification even after the selection, 
the selection of such candidate is liable to be 
cancelled. 
07. Study leave.– 
Study leave with full pay will be granted to the selected 
candidates to follow this course. Here, the Officers in Sri 
Lanka Education administrative Service, Sri Lanka teacher 
Educators' Service, the holders of the Principal Grades and 
teachers serving in the staff of National Schools, Private 
Schools and Pirivenas have to get their study leave approval 
by the Secretary of the ministry of Education & Higher 
Education while the approval of study leave of other officers 
should be done by the Secretary of Education of the relevant 
province. 
08. Bond.– 
candidates who are selected for the course are required 
to sign a security bond with the Secretary of the ministry 
of Education & Higher Education/Provincial Secretary of 
Education that, he/she would upon successful completion 
of this course, serve in the department for a period 
recommended by the rules and regulations stipulated in the 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka. 
09. if any selected candidate fails to obtain the diploma 
Certificate within the stipulated period without successfully 
completing this course owing to reasons within his/her 
control, the salaries and allowances paid to him/her during 
the period of study leave should be fully recovered from 
him/her.
10. if the work, conduct and attendance of any student is 
found to be unsatisfactory during the period of study, such 
students will be removed from the course. 
11. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala 
and tamil or English text of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 Padmasiri Jayamanne, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Education & Higher Education. 
ministry of Education & Higher Education, 
isurupaya, 
battaramulla, 
12th November, 2018.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2786
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm 
selection of candidates to follow the full time (internal) course of Post graduate diPloma in education in 
academic year - 2019
For office use
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Medium applied for 
(Sinhala/Tamil)
examination Center applied 
(Colombo/Jaffna)
Universities applied for (Colombo/Peradeniya/
Rajarata/Jaffna) 
N.B.– Mention two universities according to preference
01.
02.
01.  (i) Name with initials in English capital letters (Surname first) Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––. 
   Example : mr. Silva, A. b. C. 
  (ii) Name in full (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
02.  (i) (a) Official Address (In English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
   (b) Official Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) (a) Private address (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
   (b) Private telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) Location of School/institute serving (in English capital letters) :
   
Province District Zone
  (iv) Nature of the institute (Government Schools/Private Schools/Pirivenas/other) :–––––––––––––.
03.  (i) date of birth :  y ear :–––––––––––––.  month :–––––––––––––.  date :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) age as on 21.12.2018 : y ears :–––––––––––––.  months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) Gender : (male/Female) :–––––––––––––.
04. details of degree :
Degree Period of study in the 
University
 (From ..........  To .............
Year of 
passing 
Degree
Date of 
validity of 
Degree
Degree 
subjects
Nature of 
the Pass
Institute/
University
Degree 
(Internal/
External)
05. (i) (a) date of posting to the /Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service/Sri Lanka Private Schools teachers' Service/Sri Lanka 
   t eachers' Service :–––––––––––––.
  (b) date of assuming duties in the above Service :–––––––––––––.
  (c) current designation :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) (a) date of posting to the Sri Lanka Principals' Service/Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service/Sri Lanka Education 
administrative Service :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2787
  (b) date of assuming duties in the Sri Lanka Principals' Service/Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service/Sri Lanka 
Education administrative Service :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) Period of Service in a service/services mentioned in 4v as at 21.12.2018 after obtaining the degree :––––––––––.
 (iv) total period of service in a service/services mentioned in 4v as at 21.12.2018 :–––––––––––––.
06. details of Professional training :
 
Institute where the course was followed 
(Teachers' Training College/National 
College of Education or other)
Course (subject 
area)
Duration of study of course in the Institute
From To
07. details of study leave obtained :
Nature of study 
leave (With Pay/
Without Pay, 
Local/Foreign)
Reason for 
obtaining 
study leave
During which 
period of time
Duration of the 
Bond 
(From ............. 
To ...............)
Whether the duration of the security 
bond has been completed or not (if 
not, kindly mention the balance period 
ahead for completion of bond)
N.B.– it is compulsory to accurately complete the above chart with regard to the study leave obtained previously. 
Note.– Period of study of the National diploma in teaching in a National college of Education will not be treated as a 
study leave. 
08. (i) Whether any disciplinary action is pending against you ? yes/No :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) if so, details, relevant :–––––––––––––.
09. 
Receipt obtained by paying the 
fees should be affixed here
Receipt No. :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
I certify that a sum of Rs. ........................ (The sum in figures) was paid to 
...................... Post Office/Sub Post Office.
Signature of the candidate :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
10. candidate's declaration : 
i hereby certify that all details indicated in this application are true and accurate and i am eligible to follow this 
course under paragraph 04 of the Gazette Notification dated 23.11.2018 and i am abiding by the rules and regulations for 
candidates stipulated in the Examination Act and also, I have affixed here a valid receipt obtained after paying the prescribed 
examination fee. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  candidate's Signature.
date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'11'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.11.2018
2788
11. Recommendation pertaining to the release from the institute for the course :
 (it is compulsory to complete this by the Principal/President of NcoE/Kruthyathikdri/manager of the administrative 
board or Head of institute) :
 if the above candidate is selected for following the course he/she can be released in consideration with the requirement 
of the study of a professional course/cannot be released. 
   ––––––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Principal/Head of Institute and Official Frank. 
date :–––––––––––––.
12. Recommendation of the Zonal director of Education on releasing the candidate to follow the course :
 if the above named candidate is selected to follow this course, providing study leave for him/her is recommended/not 
recommended.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Zonal Director of Education and Official Frank. 
date :–––––––––––––.
11–1158
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.