

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.  5.50  Postage  :  Rs.  5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29,  2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 26th September, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION OF
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No. 34 OF 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006
1
Preamble.
Short title.
[Certified on 26th September, 2006]
L. D. —O. Inc. 32/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  NATIONAL  KIDNEY  FOUNDATION  OF
SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the “National
Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been formed
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the National Kidney
Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “National
Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as
“the Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of “the
National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka” and by that name
may sue and be sued in  all courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to  conduct public awareness programs, seminars,
workshops and discussions to educate the public
on Kidney diseases and timely treatment of the
disease;
General
objects of the
Foundation.
Incorporation
of the
National
Kidney
Foundation
of
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006
(b) to assist patients  seeking treatment for kidney
ailments including dialysis and kidney transplant ;
(c) to raise funds from various sources to support
patients in treatment and after care;
(d) to join or work together with any other associaiton
or institution in Sri Lanka or abroad having similar
objectives so as to assist persons suffering from
disease affecting the kidney;
(e) to encourage and facilitate researchers doing
research on diseases affecting the kidney; and
(f) generally to do any act or thing which is necessary
to achieve the above objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act, and any rule that may be made
thereunder, the administered by a Board of Management
consisting of four members.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) The Board shall cause a register to be maintained in
which every person who on the date of passing of this Act,
and every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall have his name inscribed.
5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting at such
meeting to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, on all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) the classification of members and membership fees
payable, their admission, withdrawal or expulsion
from membership ;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006
3
(b) the election of members to the Board of
Management and its powers and duties;
(c) the election of office bearers, their term of office
resignation from, vactation of or removal from office
and their powers;
(d) the duties and functions of the officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be followed in the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board, the quorum
therefor and the conduct of business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, including its fund;
(g) the managment of the affairs of the Corporation and
the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
6. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold property both movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property which were in the name of the Foundation, on or
before the commencement of this Act, shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act, and subject to the
rules of the Corporation. Any such property held by the
Corporation upon a trust shall be subject to the provisions of
any written law relating to trusts.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006
7. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules
of the Corporation who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the singing of any person as a witness.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and it
shall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions
or fees in cash or kind.
(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in any
suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation as
may be decided by the Board of Management.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise performance and discharge of the powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
fund of the Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board of
Management.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or of any
other persons.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audits.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
other
persons.

<!-- page 6 -->

National Kidney Foundation of Sri Lanka
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2006
5
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.