

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.05.2012
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1758$36 - 2012 uehs 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'05'18
No. 1758/36  - FRIDAY ,   MAY   18,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
POLICE  ORDINANCE
RULES made by the Inspector - General of Police, with the approval of the Minister under section 55 of the Police Ordinance
(Chapter 53).
Inspector - General of Police.
Colombo,
11th May, 2012.
Rules
1. These rules may be cited as the Police (Appearance of Attorneys-at-Law at Police Stations) Rules, 2012.
2. These rules shall be applicable to every police station established under the Police Ordinance (Chapter 53) and
shall be followed by all police officers of whatever rank, serving in such stations within Sri Lanka.
3. (1) Every Attorney-at-Law, who enters the precincts of a police station established under the Police Ordinance
(Chapter 53) situated in any part of Sri Lanka, in his capacity of an Attorney-at-Law for the purpose of representing and
watching the interests of a person who is the client of such Attorney-at-Law, shall be treated cordially and courteously and
given a fair and patient hearing by the police officers attached to such Police Station, whatever their rank.
(2) Every police officer attached to a Police Station shall not at any time during which he is dealing with an
Attorney-at-Law present in such police station for the purpose of representing and watching the interests of a person who is
his client, use physical force on the person of such Attorney-at-Law or resort to the use of abusive language or any other form
of intimidatory conduct.
4. An Attorney-at-Law who enters a Police Station for the purpose and in the circumstances set out in regulation 3,
shall, if he is requested to identify himself as a member of the Legal Profession by a police officer serving in such Police Station,
produce :–
(a) the National Identity Card of such Attorney-at-Law, if the Profession of such Attorney-at-Law is identified
therein as that of an ‘‘Attorney-at-Law’’; or
(b) the Identity Card issued by the Bar Association of Sri Lanka to such Attorney-at-Law
as identity documents in proof of the fact that he is a member of the Legal Profession.
L.D–B 36/49 II.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.05.2012
2A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
5. Where an Attorney-at-Law enters a Police Station with a person suspected of being involved in the commission of
an offence or an act which involves a breach of the peace, for the purpose of surrendering such suspect to the custody of the
Police, he shall ensure that he entrusts the suspect to the custody of the officer-in-charge of the Police Station or the next
officer who is senior in rank, who is present in the Police Station at that moment.
6. Where an Attorney-at-Law surrenders a suspect to a police officer who is present in the police station at the
relevant time, it shall be the duty of such police officer to record in the information Book, the date and the time and the relevant
details of such suspect and the fact that the suspect surrendered in the presence of the said Attorney-at-Law.
7. No officer of the Police Force shall aid or abet any other police officer, serving in the same police station to engage
in any acts in violation of these rules.
8. The Inspector-General of Police shall cause to be issued to all police stations situated island wide copies of these
rules. It shall be the responsibility of the offcers in - charge of police stations to make available copies of these rules to every
officer serving in such police stations and to disseminate information with regard to the content of these rules and to ensure
due and strict observance of these rules.
9. ( a) There shall be established a four member Special Committee consisting of -
(i) a senior officer of the Attorney - General’s Department not below the rank of Additional Solicitor-General
who shall be the ex-officio Chairman of this Special Committee;
(ii) the President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka;
(iii) the Director Legal of Sri Lanka Police Department ; and
(iv) a serving member of the National Police Commission.
(b) The meetings of the Special Committee shall  be convened by the Chairman of the Special Committee or upon
the specifie request made by a member of the said Special Committee as the case may be.
(c) The Special Committee shall be charged with the function of monitoring and facilitating the due and proper
observance of these rules and reporting any breaches thereof to the Inspector-General of Police and generally to do all such
acts that may promote and foster better relations between the members of the legal profession and the Sri Lanka Police Force.
(d) The Special Committee shall also be entitled to make recommendations with regard to any breach of these rules
and institution of proceedings against such police officers in question and submit reports from time to time to –
(i) the Attorney-General;
(ii) the Inspector-General of Police;
(iii) the National Police Commission.
10.Any officer of the police force who violates these rules shall be –
(i) punishable under the provisions of section 55 of the Police Ordinance ; and
(ii) subject to a disciplinary inquiry conducted by the Department of Police.
06–219