

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1824$21 - 2013 wf.daia;= ui 22 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'08'22
No. 1824/21  - THURSDAY ,  AUGUST  22,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
L.D.B. 21/78 (IX).
THE  UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  No. 16  OF  1978
Rules under Section 137
RULES made under Section 137 read with Section 70 C and 70 D of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, by the Secretary to
the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Higher Education being the Specified Authority appointed under Section
70 B of the aforesaid Act.
Secretary,
Ministry of Higher Education
Specified Authority.
Colombo.
RULES
1. These rules may be cited as the Specified Authority (Powers relating to Recognition of Institutes as Degree
Awarding Institutes) Rules No. 1 of 2013.
2. The guidelines set-out in the Schedule I and Schedule II to these rules shall be applicable for the recognition of
any State or Non-State Institute as a Degree Awarding Institute and for the obtaining of power to grant Degree or Degrees by
such Institute.
3. The Specified Authority shall with the approval of the Minister, appoint such number of Standing Committees, in
addition to the Standing Committee on Accreditation and Quality Assurance (hereinafter referred to as "the SCAQA"), the
Institutional Review Panel and the Subject Review Panel as he considers necessary, for the purpose of assisting him in
performing the tasks specified in these rules.
4. The SCAQA, the Institutional Review Panel and the Subject Review Panel shall perform the duties assigned to
such Committee and Panels under these rules, in considering the applications referred to them in accordance with the
provisions of such rules.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
2A
5. The SCAQA, the Institutional Review Panel and the Subject Review Panel shall assist the Specified Authority in
performing the task of accreditation of Institutes intending to be recognized as Degree Awarding Institutes and the task of
quality assurance thereof and cause the outcome to be reported to the Specified Authority.
6. The Specified Authority may change the membership of the SCAQA and the Review Panels from time to time,
taking into consideration the contents of the application under review.
7. Any institute which intends to obtain recognition as a Degree Awarding Institute and obtain the power to confer
Degree or Degrees (hereinafter referred to as "the applicant") shall, submit a two part application which shall consist of
Part I Part II, containing particulars given in the guidelines as set out in the Schedule I and Schedule II to these rules
respectively, in respect of Institutional Review requirements and Subject Review requirements, to the Specified Authority.
8. The applicant shall ensure that the application submitted for approval contains true and accurate information.
9. The Specified Authority shall return any application which is not in conformity with the provisions of these rules,
to the applicant by registered post giving reasons therefor.
P
ART I
APPLICATION TO OBTAIN RECOGNITION AS A DEGREE AW ARDING INSTITUTE AND TO OBTAIN POWER TO GRANT DEGREE OR DEGREES
INSTITUTIONAL  REVIEW
10. The Specified Authority shall, having satisfied that the Part I of the application is in conformity with the
guidelines set-out in Schedule I to these rules, refer the same to the SCAQA for its recommendation.
11. The evaluation of applications in terms of the succeeding provisions of this Part shall be aimed at examining the
degree of capacity of the Institute to fulfill the institutional review criteria and the standards in relation to the six components
specified in the guidelines setout in the Schedule I to these rules.
12. The SCAQA shall, scrutinize the said Part-I of the application to ensure that the applicant has provided all
required information and that it has satisfied the criteria and standards set out in these rules.
13. The SCAQA shall, during the process of evaluation, return any incomplete application with insufficient
information, to the Specified Authority giving reasons therefor and the Specified Authority shall, on being satisfied with the
reasons given by the SCAQA, return such application to the applicant, by registered post sent to the applicant's address  in
Sri Lanka giving reasons therefor.
14. The Applicant may re-submit the application to the Specified Authority together with the required information in
accordance with the requirements of the guidelines set out in the Schedule I, to these rules within a period of three months
from the date of such return and the Specified Authority shall forward the re-submitted application to the SCAQA for
reconsideration.
15. The Applicant may request for a further period of time for re-submission of the application  returned, under rule
14 and the Specified Authority may grant such extension taking into consideration the nature of the activities to be performed
by the applicant to re-submit the application.
16. The SCAQA shall submit, on the basis of its studies, a report including its findings, observations and
recommendations in respect of the application referred to in rule 10 an any re-submitted application under rule 14 to the
Specified Authroity.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
3A
Part II
SUBJECT REVIEW ACCREDITATION AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
17. The Specified Authority shall, upon receiving the report pertaining to Part I of the application as referred to in
rule 16 and having satisfied that, the Part II of the application is in conformity with guidelines set out in the Schedule II t o
these rules, refer the said Part II of the application to the SCAQA for its recommendation.
18. The SCAQA shall, in assessing the capacity of the applicant Institute, ascertain whether the applicant has
fulfilled the six components referred to in the guidelines set out in the Schedule II to these rules.
19. The SCAQA shall return any incomplete application or any application with insufficient information, to the
Specified Authority giving reasons therefor and the Specified Authority shall, on being satisfied with the reaons given by the
SCAQA, return such application to the applicant, by registered post sent to the applicant's address in Sri Lanka, giving
reasons therefor.
20. The Applicant may re-submit the application with the required information and in accordance with the requirements
specified in the Schedule II to these rules, within a period of three months from the date of such return, to the Specified
Authority.
21. The applicant may request for a further period of time for re-submission of the application and the Specified
Authority may grant such extension taking into consideration the nature of the activities to be performed by the applicant to
re-submit the application.
22. The Specified Authority shall forward the re-submitted application to the SCAQA for reconsideration.
23. The SCAQA shall upon scrutinizing and assessing in detail the said Part - II of the application including
application re-submitted as above and, having satisfied that the said application contains the components which relate to the
Degree expected as specified in Schedule II to these rules shall, submit a report to the Specified Authority including its
findings, observations and the recommendations.
Part III
ASSESSMENT BY REVIEW PANELS
24. The Specified Authority shall forward the two parts application received under Part I and Part II of these rules,
to the Institutional Review Panel and the Subject Review Panel referred to in rule 3, consisting of members appointed in the
manner set out below.
25. Institutional Review Panel and Subject Review Panel shall consist of Specialists on Institutional Review, Subject
Review, any nominees from relevant Professional Bodies who have specialized knowledge in relation to the Professionals
Degrees offered by the relevant Institute, nominees from the Senior Academic Staff of the University System and any other
person specialized in the relevant field to represent the Professional bodies which is relevant to the Degrees offered by such
Institute.
26. The said panels shall make one or more site visits as required in the circumstances in order to verify the
information provided by the applicant, and physically inspect all the facilities available and all other compenents as specified
in these rules and shall thereupon submit the reports of such panels to the Specified Authority.
4 — PG  1730

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
4A
27. The Specified Authority may inform the applicant to make further improvements to the site which relates to the
application as may be reported by the Review Panels, based on the site visits or any other inspections carried out by such
Panels during the study of the application.
28. The Specified Authority may determine a specific time period within which the applicant is expected to complete
the requirements under the relevant application, taking into consideration the applicant's request.
29. The Specified Authority shall based on the report submitted by the Institutional Review Panel in respect of Part
I of the application and, the Subject Review Panel in respect of the Part II of the application submit his report to the Minister
in terms of Section 70 C of the Act.
30. The Minister shall, upon receiving the said report, inform the Specified Authority of his decision on such
application.
31. All Non-State Institute which have been recognized as Degree Awarding Institutes in pursuance to the Report
made to the Minister by the Specified Authority under Section 70 C of the Act and which offer study programmes leading to
Degrees in Medicine, Engineering, Architecture and other similar professional Degrees shall, obtain compliance certification
from the relevant Specified Professional Body and shall submit such certification to the Specified Authority.
32. Subject to the direction and control of the Minister, the Specified Authority shall, from time to time, examine the
performance of any such Degree Awarding Institute through a Quality Assurance Monitoring System established for the
purpose, to ensure that the standards set out in these rules are maintained.
33. It shall be the duty of the Degree Awarding Institute to allow the Specified Authority or his authorized representative
to visit the Institute during the working hours of any week day and to furnish when requested all necessary information,
documents and other evidence necessary for quality assurance monitoring purpose.
34. The Specified Authority shall, subject to the direction and control of the Minister, inform any Degree Awarding
Institute based on such quality assurance monitoring report, of the steps to be taken to maintain in proper standards of
Degree Awarding status.
35. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires :
"Act" means, the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 ;
"Minister" means the Minister to whom the subject of Higher Education has been assigned ;
"Specified Authority" means, the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister, who has been appointed as
such Specified Authority by Order published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1746/11 dated 22 February
2012 ;
"Specified Professional Body" means, in association or an institution established or incorporated by an
Act of Parliament comprising of persons with knowledge and qualifications in a specific discipline or
profession.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
5A
SCHEDULE  I
Guidelines for Institutional Review
1. Governance .- There should be a governance structure
with clearly defined hierarchy such as a Board of
Governors or Board of Management, an Academic
Syndicate (or Senate), Faculty Boards, Academic
Departments, and Centres/Units. The composition and
fucntions of such bodies must be clearly defined.
Moreover, the roles and responsilitities of relevant
officials involved (i.e. Chief Executive Officer, Deans,
Heads of Departments, Registrar, Bursar, etc.) who are
accountable for administrative, academic and financial
matters should be identified and clearly stated.
Column I
Description of Area of Activity
Column II
Identification of Evidence/Information required
(a) Company Registration under the Provisions of
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007/Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka Law, No 4 of  1978 (BOI) ;
(b) Memorandum of Association of the Company ;
(c) Governance Structure ;
(d) Profiles of members of Governing Boards/Academic
Boards ;
(e) Minutes of Governing Board/Academic Board
Meetings (to be inspected during site visits) ;
(f) Company Directors' Annual Declarations to the
Registrar of Companies/BOI as the case may be ;
(g) Official mail, website and electronic mail address of
the Institute where official letters can be delivered to ;
(h) Any other evidence/document as may be relevant to
the Governance.
2. Management .- The management of a Degree Awarding
Institute shall be carried out through the guidance of
Standing Committees appointed by the Governing
Council/Board of Management, in accordance with the
management procedure. Such Committees shall address
all issues related to general administration, academic
administraion, financial management and disciplinary
and welfare matter
(a) Organogram including main divisions of subjects and,
responsible officials in-charge of each division ;
(b) Corporate/Strategic Plan ;
(c) Cadre Positions, Schemes of Recruitment including
lists of duties and qualifications required to perform
such duties, Service conditions and entitlements,
recruitment and promotion procedures and other
applicable matters of each non-academic position in
the company ;
(d) Human Resource Development Plan including Staff
Development Plan  and Succession Plan of Non
Academic grades prepared in line with Corporate/
Strategic Plan ;
(e) Documented Procedures of administration and lists of
duties of staff ;
(f) Monitoring and Supervision Mechanism including
Internal Auditing Plan and External Auditing
Information ;
(g) Annual Reports of last five consecutive years incase
of an already functioning applicant Institute/
Institution ;
(h) Any other evidence/document as may relevant to the
Management

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
6A
SCHEDULE I (Contd.)
Column I
Description of Area of Activity
Column II
Identification of Evidence/Information required
3. Financial Viability .- The Institute shall celarly
demonstrate its financial capacity and viability. Further,
it must provide assurance and place sureties in place
to face contingencies/emergencies and meet the
compensaions for students and employees if the
institute is faced with suspension of its operation and
activities.
(a) Annual Audited Financial Statements including
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Statements up to
last five consecutive years of the applicant company
in respect of an already functioning organization in Sri
Lanka ;
(b) Assets and Liability Statements in respect of a newly
established applicant company ;
(c) Banker's details and last three consecutive years' bank
balances certified by authorized officers of respective
banks ;
(d) Corporate Plan/Strategic Plan based financial forecast
for the next five consecutive years ;
(e) Any other evidence/document as may be relavant to
the financial availability.
4. Physical Resources .- The institute shall have
established all physical facilities required to operate as
a higher educational institute. The institute must have
an administrative complex and facilities for educational
activities. These includes administrative complex/
building, lecture rooms, auditorium, student teaching
and training laboratories, library, computer facilities,
sports and recreational facilities, a cafeteria and rest
rooms, and in the case of professional courses, the
institution must have its own training institute facility/
hospital or have access to a suitable training facility/
hospital, as the case may be. If the training facility/
hospital is a Government concern, partnership shall
have been formalized by means of a Memorandum of
understanding and shall be implemented through an
Agreement.
(a) Lease Agreement/s or the Deed/s of the Land/s and
Building/s where the Institution/Institute shall be
functioning  (Applicant need to submit these
documents before completion of the Subject Review) ;
(b) Infrastructure Master Plan of the Institution or the
Institute ;
(c) Memoranda of understanding and agreement's with
partner institution (i.e., Teaching Hispitals/Training
Institutions)  ;
(d) Physical facilities available for administration and
academic faculties/units -
(i) lecture theaters, tutorial rooms, laboratories for
practical classes, and facilities ;
(ii) clinical/in-plant training
(e) Common amenities such as library, computer centre/
unit, gymnasium and recretional facilities,a cafeteria
and rest rooms, etc.
(f) Any other evidence/document as may be relevant to
the physical resources
5. Academic Planning and Development and, Process
and Quality Assurance System .-  The institute shall
clearly demonstrate its capacity to plan and conduct
academic training programmes that would meet the
standards and quality assurance criteria defined by the
SCAQA. This includes availability of qualified
academic and technical staff for academic development
(a) List of Academic Study Programmes currently
offered ;
(b) Prospectuses/Handbooks/Brochures giving details on
Academic Study Programmes ;
(c) Cerdit and Qualification Framework of Academic Study
Programmes  ;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
7A
Column I
Description of Area of Activity
SCHEDULE I (Contd.)
Column II
Identification of Evidence/Information required
and planning, teaching/training material development,
and conduct educational programmes and examinations
and institutional arrangements for internal and external
quality assurance mechanisms and procedures.
(d) Qualification Descriptors of individual Academic Study
Programmes ;
(e) Subject Benchmark Statements of Academic Study
Programmes ;
(f) Details of contents of courses/modules ;
(g) Internal and External Quality Framework and
Procedures ;
(h) Codes of Practice ;
(i) Human Resource Development Plan ;
(j) Any other document or evidence as may be relevant
to Academic Planning and Development
6. Academic and Research Competencies of Staff
(overall).- The Institution shall have minimum number
of academic staff on permanent basis or on long-term
contracts. The academic staff must posses basic and
post-graduate qualifications from recognized
Universiteis in the relevant  field together with sufficient
teaching experience. They also should have information
and a plan for academic and non-academic cadre
positions, suitable staff development programme,
continuing professional development. Moreover, the
academic staff should possess competencies and
demonstrate continuous engagement in research and
development
(a) Academic cadre positions ;
(b) Academic/professional qualifications of the staff ;
(c) Human Resource Development Plan including Staff
development programme/continuing professional
development and Succession Plan of Academic Staff  ;
(d) Staff/student ratio -
(e) Institutional arrangement to promote research and
development such as Research Committees ;
(f) Evidence of staff interaction with Industry ;
(g) Database of research and research publications ;
(h) Annual Reports of the Institute in which Academic
Research and Competencies of Staff have been
highlighted ;
(i) Any other evidence or document as may be relevant
to the competencies of staff.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
8A
SCHEDULE  II
Guidelines for Subject Review
1. Admission Criteria and Procedure  .- The institution
must submit details as regard to entry qualifications
for the degree programme, evaluation criteria and
selection procedure. The procedure adopted by the
institute shall conform to the a minimal entry
qualifications adopted by the University Grants
Commission for deciding eligibility for undergraduate
study programmes. Further, the selection procedure
must be based on principles of objective assessment
and transparency
(a) Admission criteria and evaluation procedure ;
(b) Profiles of students admitted previously ;
(c) Reports on the progress of academics conform into
the minimal entry programmes, including-number
applied, number selected, number retained over the
study period, number graduated (over the past five
years) ;
Column I
Description of Area of Activity
Column II
Identification of Evidence/Information required
2. Academic Programme  .- The academic programmes
conducted should have relevance to the national needs.
Such programmes need to be in conformity with the
Vision and Mission of the Institute and compatible with
physical and human resources available and experience
of institute point the study programme must have been
development on sound principles such as :
(i) Qualification Descriptors ;
(ii) Credit and Qualification descriptors ;
(iii) Intended learning outcomes of courses/modules ;
(iv) Assessment methods that includes end of the course
and continuous assessments ; and
(v) Student-centered, blended teaching and learning with
good mix of conventional and modern ICT - based
learning tools
(a) Study Programme ;
(b) Credit and qualification framework ;
(c) Qualification Descriptors ;
(d) Intended learning outcomes of the programme and
individual courses ;
(e) Details of contents of courses/modules ;
(f) Teaching and learning methods ;
(g) Teaching panel-on regular/contract/visiting basis ;
(h) Laboratory/practical/clinical classes and manuals of
instructions on individual laboratory/practical's and
clinical sessions ;
(i) Rules and regulations of assessments ;
(j) By-laws ;
( k ) Past question papers and answer scripts (if
available) ;
(i) Results of graduating class (over the past five years if
available)
3. Standard and Quality Assurance Mechanism and
Procedures .- The institute must clearly demonstrate
the internal and external quality assurance mechanisms
and procedures that are in place. The courses
conducted need to be of high standard, meeting
national and international standard, and conforming to
relevant standards and benchmark statements
(a) Internal Quality assurance mechanisms and
procedures ;
(b) External, quality assurance mechanism and
procedures ;
(c) Subject-benchmark statement (s) ;
(d) Credit and Qualification Framework ;
(e) Qualification Descriptors ;
(f) Codes of practice for students and staff ;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
9A
SCHEDULE II (Contd.)
Column I
Description of Area of Activity
Column II
Identification of Evidence/Information required
(g) Student feed-back and comments through
questionnaire ;
(h) Peer observations ;
(i) Labour market surveys and employer feedback.
4. Academic and Research Competencies of Staff  .-
(specific to the Study Programme and disciplines) The
staff should have the required basic and postgraduate
qualifications from recognized Universities in the
relevant field together with sufficient teaching
experience. They also should have gone through
suitable staff development programmes to orient them
towards teaching in a higher educational institution.
Moreover, the academic staff should possess
competencies and demonstrate and continues
engagement in research and development
(a) Academic qualifications of the regular and visiting
staff ;
(b) Availability of required expertise in the required basic
and post-graduate staff ;
(c) Prescribed recruitment criteria and job descriptions of
academic staff ;
(d) Staff development Programmes and in-service training
programmes ;
(e) Databases of on-going research ;
(f) Database on research publications by the staff ;
(g) Interactions with the industry and methods of research
information dissemination.
5. Teaching and/Training Facilities specific to Study
Prgramme .- The institutiion must have established all
physical facilities required to offer the specific degree
programme. The faculty/unit that offers the degree
programme must have administrative complex, and
facilities for educational activities. These includes
administrative complex/building, lecture rooms,
auditorium, student teaching and training laboratories,
library, computer facilities, and also should have access
to common amenities sports and recreatinal facilities,
cafeteria and rest rooms. In the case of professional
courses, the Institution must have its own training
facility/hospital or have access to a suitable teaching
facility/hospital as the case may be. If the training
facility/hospital is a government concern, that
partnership shall have been formalized through
Memorandum of understanding and implemented
though Agreements. In the case of study programme in
medical sciences, the teaching hospital to which the
student have access and provided with clinical training
must conform into the standards stipulated by the Sri
Lanka Medical Council.
(a) Availability of laboratoreis/clinical training facilities
and related facilities for laboratory work/field work/
practical/clinical, a applicable to the degree
programme ;
(b) Academic support staff and their qualificatiions and
experience ;
(c) Equipment for laboratory work/practical classes/
clinical work ;
(d) In the case of professional degree programme in
medical sciences, the availability of a teaching hospital
with professional units for clinical teaching/practice
and for gaining experience in advanced clinical/
laboratory techniques ;
(e) Memoranda of understanding and agreements with
partner institutions (i.e. teaching hospital/training
institutions) ;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2013
10A
SCHEDULE II (Contd.)
Column I
Description of Area of Activity
Column II
Identification of Evidence/Information required
6. Student Support Services and Welfare  .- The
educational environment should be conducive to make
the students as well as the staff feel comfortable in
carrying out the adacemic activities. The students
should be guided from the day of entry into the
programme through mechanisms such as orientation
programmes, academic and student counselling system,
career guidance, staff etc. There should be mechanism
for student's to engage in extracurricular activities. The
staff also should be provided with adequate resources
and welfare facilities to enable them to be motivated to
contribute towards improving academic standards of
the institutions and voluntarily to guide students for
student-centered learning and promote their welfare.
(a) Imformation on study programme, student support
services and facilities in print and electronic media ;
(b) Student Porspectus/Handbook ;
(c) Management information systems and procedures ;
(d) Teaching/practical/clinical and tutorial Schedules ;
(e) Academic guidence and student counseling
services ;
(f) Availability of canteens, hostels, library, computer
facilities, etc.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
09 - 85