

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
607
607
wxl 1"804 - 2013 ud¾;= 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'03'28
No. 1,804 – THURSDAY , MARCH 28, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 609
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th April, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th    April,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,803 of 22.03.2013 was not published.
Note .— (i) Laksman Wasantha Perera Community Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the
Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November, 16, 2012.
(ii) Global Humanitarian Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November, 30, 2012.
(iii) United Muslim Uammah (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December, 28, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
608
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
609
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd May , 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th March, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Poojapitiya Post of Birth and Death Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Pallegampaha North Division and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Harispattuwa Kandy.
(Kandyan/General)
03–1106
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
610
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 28th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th March, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths for District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Mawanella Hospital Division General, District Secretariat,
Kegalle.
03–1105
–––––––––––––––––
Revision
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Promotion of Officers in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service to Special Grade
THE Public Service Commission has ordered the following revision to the Gazette notification regarding promotion to Special Gra de of
Sri Lanka Administrative Service which has been pubilshed in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 1,797
dated 08.02.2013.
“To revise the dates of fulfilling the qualifications as 01.07.2011 and 01.01.2012. ”
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
03–1062

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
611
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National Institute of Social Development
CALLING OF APPLICATION TO FILL THE VACANCIES
01. POST.– Director (Administration and Finance).
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 25 years of age and not more than
50 years of age (However, maximum age limit shall not be
applicable to the candidates serving in government, Provincial
Public Service or Statutary Boards of the government).
(ii) ( a) Educational qualifications. – Basic degree in
Administration or Management from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission with
Post Graduate Degree in Administration or Management.
(b) Experience .– Minimum experience of 15 years in
Administration and Finance at managerial level, in Public
Service, Statutary Board or reputed Public Institution.
(iii) Salary.– HM 1-3-2006- Rs. 41,745 - 15x1,100 - Rs. 58,245
(monthly).
02. Post.– Director (Training) :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 25 years of age and not more
than 50 years of age (However, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government,
Provincial Public Service or Statutary Boards of the
government).
(ii) (a) Educational qualifications.– Basic degree in Social
Sciences from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission with Post Graduate Degree in
Social Sciences.
(b) Experience.– Minimum experience of 15 years in Social
Work. Training Managemnet, in Public Service,
Government Institution or Public Institution
recognized by the government.
(iii) Salary.– HM 1-3-2006- Rs. 41,745 - 15x1,100 - Rs. 58,245
(monthly).
03. Post.– Director (Social Development Policies, Research and
Publications) :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 25 years of age and not more
than 50 years of age (However, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government,
Provincial Public Service or Statutary Boards of the
government).
(ii) (a) Educational qualifications.– Basic degree in Social
Sciences from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission with Post Graduate Degree in
Social Sciences with a Research.
(b) Experience.– Minimum experience of 15 years in Social
Work. Research Managemnet, in Public Service,
Government Institution or Public Institution
recognized by the government.
(iii) Salary.– HM 1-3-2006- Rs. 41,745 - 15x1,100 - Rs. 58,245
(monthly).
04. Post.– Registrar II :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years (the maximum age limit shall not be applicable
to the candidates who are already serving in Public Service,
Provincial Public Service or statutary Boards of the
government).
(ii) (a) Educational qualifications.– A general degree obtained
from a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission.
(b) Experience.– Minimum of five (05) years on academic
and administrative functions of a government
institution or recognized higher educational institute.
(iii) Salary.– MM 1-1-2006- Rs.25,640 -3x665 -7x735 -15x925
- Rs. 46,655 (monthly).
05. Post.– Assistant Librarian II :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years and not more than 45
years (The maximum age limit shall not be applicable to
the candidates who are already serving in Public Service or
Statutary Boards of the government).
(ii) (a) Educational qualifications.– Shall have obtained a first
degree from a university recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
(b) Experience.– Experience of three years as a librarian
of a library at higher education institute recognized by
the government.
(iii) Salary.– JM 1-1-2006A- Rs. 20,525 -10x365 -18x550 -
Rs. 34,075 (monthly).
06. Post.– Senior Lecturer :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years and not more than 45
years of age (However, maximum age limit shall not be
applicable to the candidates serving in government,
Provincial Public Service or statutary boards of the
government).
(ii) (a) Educational qualifications.– Possession of a Bachelor's
Degree in Social Sciences from a university recognized
by the University Grant Commission with a PHD on
Social Work.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
612
(b) Experience.– Not less than 10 years experience in social
work and teaching at a government higher education
institution or an institution recognized by the
government.
(iii) Salary.– AR-2–2006A
Rs. 34,550 -10x925 - Rs. 43,880 (monthly).
07. Post.– Senior Training Officer :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (however, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in Government,
Provincial Public Service or Statutary Boards of the
Government).
(ii) (a) Educational Qualifications.– Possession of a Bachelor's
Degree in Social Sciences from a University recognized
by the University Grants Commission with a PHD
on Social Sciences.
(b) Experience.– Not less than 10 years experience at a
government higher education institution or an
institution recognized by the government in sectors of
training social work.
(iii) Salary.– AR- 2–2006A
Rs. 34,550- 10x925 - Rs. 43,880 (monthly).
08. Post.– Senior Research Officer :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (however, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in Government,
Provincial Public Service or Statutary Boards of the
Government).
(ii) (a) Educational Qualifications.– Possession of a Bachelor's
Degree in Social Sciences from a University recognized
by the University Grants Commission with a PHD
on Social Sciences.
(b) Experience.– Not less than 10 years experience at a
government institution or an institution recognized by
the governent in the research sectors of social works.
(iii) Salary.– AR- 2-2006A
Rs. 34,550 -10x925 - Rs. 43,880 (monthly).
09. Post.– Lecturer II :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (however, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government,
statutary boards or at this institution).
(ii) (a) Educational Qualifications.– Possession of a Bachelor's
Degree on Social Work with a first or second class
(Upper Division) from a university/higher educational
institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission ;
or
(b) Possession of a First Degree on Social Sciences with a
Post Graduate Degree on Social Work from a university/
higher educational institution recognized by the
University Grants Commission.
(iii) Salary.– AR-1-2006A
Rs. 24,725 -5x550 -5x645 - 15x770 - Rs. 42,250 (monthly).
10. Post.– Training Officer II :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (however, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government,
statutary boards or at this institution).
(ii) (a) Educational Qualifications.– Possession of a Bachelor's
Degree in Social Science with a first or second class
(Upper Division) from a university/higher educational
institution recognized by the Universtiy Grants
Commission ;
or
(b
) Possession of a First Degree on Social Sciences with a
Post Graduate Degree from a university/higher
educational institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission ;
and
Experience of at least one year at a government higher
education/training institution on Social Development
and Welfare, relating to the fields such as planning of
training programmes, implementing and evaluation.
(iii) Salary.– AR-1–2006A
Rs. 24,725 -5x550 -5x645 -15x 770 - Rs. 42,250 (monthly).
11. Post.– Research Officer II :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (however, maximum age limit shall
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government,
statutary boards or at this institution).
(ii) (a) Educational Qualifications.– Possession of a Degree
with a thesis and a pass of first or second class (Upper
Division) on Social Sciences from a university/higher
educational institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission ;
or
(b) Possession of a First Degree on Social Sciences with a
Post Graduate Degree from a university/higher
educational institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission ;
or
(c) Experience of 03 years as a Research Assistant at a
government or statutory institution or private
institution with a degree from a university/higher
educational institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
613
(iii) Salary.– AR-1–2006A
Rs. 24,725 -5x550 -5x645 - 15x770 - Rs. 42,250 (monthly).
12. Post.– Research Assistant III :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (the maximum age limit shall not be
applicable to the candidates who are already serving in
public service or statuary boards of the government).
(ii) (a) Educational Qualifications.– A degree in Social Science
with Research Subjects, from a university recognized
by the University Grants Commission ;
and
Minimum experience of one year on Research Activities,
at Government Institution or at recognized institution.
(iii) Salary.– MA 3–2006A
Rs. 15,600 -10x215 -4x240 -15x320 -7x360 - Rs. 26,030
(monthly).
13. Post.– Translator III :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years (this age limit shall not be effective on those
who are employed in Government, Provincial Public
Service or Statutary Boards).
(ii) ( a) Educational Qualifications. – Degree obtained in
Sinhala/Tamil medium from a University recognized
by University Grants Commission and a Credit pass
for Sinhala/Tamil Language and Literature at G . C. E.
A/L and skills in Sinhala/Tamil Trnaslation.
(b) Experience.– 02 years experience as a translator at a
government institution or institution recognized by
the government.
(iii) Salary.– MA 4-2006A
Rs. 18,230-10x365 -15x450 -5x550 - Rs. 31,380 (monthly).
14. Post.– Audio Visual Technician III :
(i) Age.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (this age limit shall not be effective on
those who are employed in Government, Provincial Public
Service or Statutary Boards).
(ii) Educational Qualifications :
(a) Shall have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) with six
(06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala,
Mathematics and two other subjects in one sitting.
(b) Shall have passed G. C. E. (Advanced Level) in Science
stream with all subjects (except General Test) and
have obtained the level required to follow a tertiary
education course.
Technological Skills/Proficienceis .– Shall have
successfully completed an audio visual technical course
not below the level of National Vocational Qualification
(NVQ) level five (05) which is prescribed by the
Tertiary Education Commission in relation to the
functions of each post and obtained a certificate.
(iii) Salary.– MA 2–2-2006A
Rs. 14,610-10x145 -7x170 -4x290 -20x345- Rs. 25,310
(monthly).
Terms of engagement of above posts :
1. Permanent post ;
2. Contribution in accordance with the percentages approved
by the government shall be payable towards the Employees
Provident Fund ;
3. Post is subject to probationary period of 03 years.
Note.– These vacancies are existing at the main office
situated at Nawala, Rajagiriya. We have no branches.
Selected applicants have to report to duty at the main
office.
Conditions of Service.– Appointment is subject to the provisions
of the National Institute of Social Development Act, No. 41 of 1992
and to rules and regulations as may be made by the government from
time to time.
Applications with complete bio-data of the applicants should be
sent to the address below to reach the address on or before 19.04.2013
by Registered Post. The post applied for should be noted on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope. Incomplete, indistinct or late
applications will be rejected. Officers in Public Service should sent
their applications through their Heads of Department/Institution.
R
IDDLEY JAYASINGHE,
Director General,
National Institute of Social Development.
National Institute of Social Development,
No. 488A, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya,
15th March, 2013.
03–1180
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
Open Recruitment for the Post of Assistant Warden in the
Department of Child Probation and Child Care Services
APPLICA TIONS are invited to fill the vacancy in the Post of
Assistant Warden in the Department of Probation and Child Care
Services.
01. General Qualifications :
(a) The applicant should be female citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) She should be of good character.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
614
02. (i) Educational Qualifications.– The applicant should have
passed not less than six (06) subjects at the General
Certificate of Educational Examination (Ordinary Level)
in one sitting with at least four credit passes including
Sinhala/Tamil/English and Mathematics ;
and
Should have passed at least one (01) subject at the General
Certificate of Educational Examination (Advanced Level).
(ii) Professional Qualifications.– The applicant should have
followed a course on child protection and counselling
(not less than 3 months) at the National Institute of Social
Development or at an institute approved by the
Government.
(iii) Experience.– Practical training not less than 03 months in
Child, Youth Social Welfare Work at a government or at an
institute approved by the government.
03. Age Limit.– The appilcant should not be less than 18 years
and not more than 30 years of age, on the closing date of applications.
(The upper age limit will not be applicable to those already in Public
Service).
04. Salary Scale.–
Salary Bracket –MN-1-2006A (As per the  P. A. Circular
No. 06/2006(iv)
Salary Scale– Rs. 13,120 -10x145-11x170 -10x240- 10x320 -
Rs. 22,040.
05. Conditions of Service :
(a) The post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(b) The provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Public Service
Commission No. 1,589/30 as well as the general conditions
in the procedural regulations published in the Gazette
Extra-ordinary dated 20.02.2009 are applicable to the
selected applicants. She will also be subject to the
provisions of the Establishment Code, Financial
Regulations and Departmental Orders already issued or
that may be issued hereafter by the government.
(c) The selected applicants should be physically and mentally
fit to serve in any part of the Island. She should pass a
government medical test to be held for this purpose.
(d) The selected applicant will be subject to a probation period
of three (03) years from the date of appointment to the
post.
(e) Every officer recruit ed not in the medium of official
language, should obtain proficiency in the official
language, during the probation period. In terms of Public
Administration Circular 07/2007, the selected candidate
should also obtain language proficiency level II, within 5
years from the date of appointment to this post. Failure
to obtain language proficiency within the prescribed period
will result in the suspension of salary increment of the
officer.
06. Method of Recruitment.– The recruitment to the post will be
from among applicants who have secured the pass marks (40%) at
the structured interview, as per the skills list and the number of
vacancies.
Exception :
(a) Only candidates, with basic qualifications as indicated in
the application who will secure the highest marks at the
structured interview, will be called up for the interview.
The number of such qualified applicants to be called for
the interview will be only five times the number of
vacancies.
Heads under which marks will be given at the interview :
(i) Additional Educational Qualification - Maximum
Marks 30
Diploma Certificate on Social Work (one year) obtained
from the National Institute of Social Development or any
other institute approved by the Government or equivalent
certificates. (10 marks for each)
(ii) Courses on Child Protection (More than 05 months) -
Maximum Marks 25
(05 marks for each course)
(iii) Training Certificates (More than 03 months) - Maximum
Marks 20
The certificates should be relevant to Child, Youth Social
Welfare Work
(02 marks for each month)
(iv) Certificates on Computer Training (More than 06 months)
- Maximum Marks 12
(v) Certificates on Knowledge in English Language -
Maximum Marks 08
G . C. E. (O/L) Pass - 05 marks
Training Course (More than 06 months) - 03 marks
(At an institute approved by the government)
(vi) Marks to be given by the Interview Board for leadership
attitude, personality and communication skills - Maximum
Marks 05
07. Method of Applying :
(a) Applications prepared in A4 size paper, using both sides,
according to the specimen form given in the notification
should be sent by registered post, addressed to
Commissioner of Department of Probation and Child Care
Services, No. 69, S. de S. Jayasinghe Mawatha, Kohuwala,
Nugegoda to reach her before 19.04.2013.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
615
(b) Those who are in Public Service at present should forward
their applications through the Heads of their respective
Departments. "Application for the Post of Assistant
Warden - 2013" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. To
confirm relevant educational and professional
qualifications, photocopies of certificates, certified by
the applicant should be submitted with the application.
(c) Applications not duly filled in every respect, without
basic qualifications and applications received after the
closing date will be rejected. The receipt or the rejection
of the application will be not informed.
08. Submission of false information.– If it reveals any time before
the appointment is given that the applicant is not eligible for the
post, the candidature will be cancelled. If it reveals after the
appointment is made that false information has been given or correct
information has been concealed purposely by the applicant, the
appointee will be dismissed from service.
09. The decision of the Commissioner, Probation and Child Care
Services will be final on issues pertaining to matters in the notification
calling for applications or any matters not revealed by this notification.
M. Y
AMUNA PERERA,
Commissioner,
Probation and Child Care Services.
Department of Probation and Child Care Services,
No. 69, S. De S. Jayasinghe Mawatha,
Kohuwala, Nugegoda.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT WARDEN IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF PROBA TION AND CHILD CARE SERVICES
01. ( a) Applicant's name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
Applicant's name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(b) Full name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
Full name (in English block capital letters) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
03. Present Address :––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Male/Female :––––––––––––.
06. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
07. Nationality :––––––––––––.
08. Civil status :––––––––––––.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
09. Educational qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) : Year :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
G . C. E. (A/L) : Year :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
10. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
11. Experience :––––––––––––.
12. Additional educational qualifications :
(i) Diploma courses on social work :––––––––––––.
(ii) Courses followed on Child Protection :––––––––––––.
(iii) Training courses on child, youth social welfare work :–––.
(iv) Computer Training :––––––––––––.
(v) Courses followed on English Language :––––––––––––.
13. Any other professional experience if any :
I ........................ do hereby declare that the particulars furnished
above are true and accurate. I am also aware that I have never been
dismissed from the Public Service or sent on retirement been treated
as a person who had vacated a post in the Public Service. I am also
aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be
dismissed without payment of compensation, if such detection is
made after appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department for those applicants in
the Public Services :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... works at present
in this Ministry/Department as a ...................... on a permanent/
temporary/casual basis and I can/cannot release him/her if selected
for appointment for this post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––.
03–1198