

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"052 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2017'12'29
No. 2,052-  FRIDAY , DECEMBER 29  2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 3210
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         P
AGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
3209  
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  19th January, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th January, 2018.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81239- 5,403 (12/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 29.12.2017
3210
SOORIYAWEWA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Entertainment  Tax
BY  virtue of Powers vested in me by Sub-Section (2) of Section 2 of Entertainment Tax Ordinance which should be read 
with Para.  (a) of Sub-section (1) Section 2 of Provincial Council Act No. 12 of 1989 (Supplementary Act,) I, Gusthinya 
Wadu Shan Wijayalal De Silva, Minister of Local Government of Southern Province do hereby notify the following proposal 
passed under decision No. E (02) at Sabha meeting of Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha in Hambantota District on 29.04.2014 
by virtue of the powers vested by Sub Section (1) of Section Two of the Entertainment Tax Ordinance (Chapter 267).
 G
USTHINYA WADU SHAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance of Law & Order, 
 Health and Indigenous Medicine, 
 Local Government, Transport and Tourism.
Chief Minister’s Ofﬁ ce,
Galle,
21st November, 2017.
Proposal
By virtue of the powers vested in Local Government Authorties by section Sub Section 1 of Section 2 of Entertainment Tax 
Ordinance Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha hereby proposes that in any entertainment purpose carried out within the area 
of Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha for the purposes of Entertainment Tax Ordinance (Chapter 267) an entertainment tax 
should be paid to Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha in following events.
 (a) In an event of a cinema show, a similar amount of Seven percent (7%) of the total amount which is collected from 
those who are admitted for that show; and
 (b) In any other entertainment event a similar amount of Twenty percent (20%) of the total amount which is collected 
from those who are admitted for that show.
12-1099
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.