

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2113$63 - 2019 ud¾;= ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'03'08
No. 21 13/63 – FRIDA Y, MARCH 08, 2019
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) - GENERAL
Government Notifications
L. D. B. 15/2014 (II)
THE  CONSTRUCTION  INDUSTRY  DEVELOPMENT  ACT,  NO.  33  OF  2014
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Housing, Construction and Cultural Affairs under section 58 of the Construction
Industry Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 read with subsection (2) of section 52 of the aforesaid Act.
SAJITH PREMADASA,
Minister of Housing, Construction and Cultural Affairs.
Colombo,
06th March,  2019.
REGULATIONS
1. These regulations may be cited as the Construction Industry Development (Registration of Adjudicator s) Regulations
of  2019.
2. A Person shall not be an Adjudicator to a dispute relating to any contract of construction works unl ess such person is
registered as an adjudicator with the Construction Industry Development Authority (hereinafter refer red to as the
''Authority'').
3. (1) Every person who wishes to be an Adjudicator under regulation 2 shall apply to the Director-General of the Authority
in a form as may be determined by the Authority accompanied by a non-refundable processing fee as sp ecified in the
Shedule hereto.
(2) Every applicant under sub-regulation (1) shall possess the following qualifications and experience:-
(a) a Bachelor's degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri Lanka in Engineering,
Architecture or Quantity Surveying;
(b) a Corporate Membership of the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka or Sri Lanka Institute of Architects or Institute
of Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka obtained through an academic qualification; and
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 4413 - 507 (2019/03)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : fþoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2019'03'08
PART I : S ECTION I -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 08.03.2019
(c) at least ten years relevant experience after obtaining Corporate Membership.
(3) An application under this regulation shall be accompanied by a report consisting of not less than two thousand words
demonstrating knowledge and skills. The Director -General may, where necessary require an applicant to furnish further
information.
4. (1) Upon the receipt of an application under regulation 3, the Director-General shall refer the application and documents
to a Committee appointed by the Authority for recommendation.
(2) Upon the receipt of recommendation of the Committee, the Director- General shall, either register such person as an
Adjudicator and issue a Certificate of Registration upon the payment of the registration fee as specified in the Schedue
hereto or for the reasons to be recorded by him, refuse to register such person as an adjudicator. The Director-General
shall in writing inform the applicant of his decision and in a case of a refusal to register such person as an Adjudicator, he
shall state his reasons therefor.
5. Every Certificate of Registration shall be in a form as may be determined by the Authority and such Certificate of
Registration shall, unless revoked earlier, be valid for a period specified therein and shall be sub ject to such terms and
conditions specified therein.
6. The Director-General may revoke a Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 4, if he is sa tisfied that any
Adjudicator has violated any provisions of the Construction Industry Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 or regulations or
rules made thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of the Certificate or Registration.
7. (1) A Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 4 shall be renewable on application being made in that behalf to
the Director-General not less than thirty days before the expiry of the Certificate of Registration accompanied by a
renewal fee as specified in the Schedule hereto.
(2) A Certificate of Registration shall be renewed by the Director-General, only if he is satisfied that the Ajudicator has
complied with the provisions of the Constrution Industry Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 regulations  or rules made
thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of the Certificate of Registration.
8. Every person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Director-General may make an appeal to the Appe als Board
established under the provisions of section 53 of the Construction Industry Development Act, No. 33 of 2014.
9. (1) Any Ajudicator who has already registered with the Authority and is being functioning on the date of the coming into
operation of these regulations, notwithstanding the provisions contained in regulation 2 of these re gulations, shall be
permitted to continue to function as an Adjudicator for a period specified in the Certificate of Registration.
(2) The Adjudicators referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall, not less than thirty days before the e xpiry of such period
specified in the Certificate of Registraion, apply for renewal in terms of regulation 7(1).
(3) The provisions of regulation 3(2) shall not apply to the Adjudicators referred to in sub-regulation (1).
SCHEDULE
Processing Fee, Registration Fee and Renewal Fee
(regulations 3(1), 4(2) & 7(1))
Description Fee excluding taxes
(Rs.)
Processing fee   Rs. 3,000.00
Registration fee Rs. 20,000.00
Renewal fee Rs. 20,000.00
03-1068
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.