

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
485
wxl 1"868 - 2014 cqks 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'06'20
No. 1,868 – FRIDAY , JUNE 20, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... 486
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 489
By-Laws ... ––
485
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th July, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th June,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—  Parts I:III of the Gazette No. 1,867 of 13.06.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
486
Posts – Vacant
GANGA  IHALA  KORALE   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Vacancies in the Central Province Public Service
APPLICATIONS are called for recruitment of following posts in the Ganga Ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, from qualified permanent
residents, who possess the following qualifications, living within the administrative limits of Ganga Ihala Korale Pradeshiya S abha.
Serial Name of the Number of Salary Scale Educational and other
No. Post V acancies Qualifications
01 Watcher 01 2006A(IV) PL 1 Should have passed in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
Class III Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 - or National Certificate of Education Ordinary
12x145 - Rs. 17,600 Level) minimum six subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil Language, not more than two sittings.
02 Sanitary Labourers 03 PL 1A 2006 Should have completed the syllabus for Grade 8
Grade III Rs. 12,470 -10x120 -10x130 - (Year 9)
10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600
03 Electricians 01 PL 2 2006 Should have passed in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
Rs. 12,210 -10x120 -10x130 - or National Certificate of Education Ordinary
10x145 - 12x160 - 12x170 - Level) minimum six subjects including Sinhala/
Rs. 18,600 Tamil Langauge, not more than two sittings.
(a) Should have the Level 2 (NVQ 2) or Level 3
(NVQ 3) of the National V ocational
Qualifications, related to the profession ; or
(b) Should have followed a related professional
course not less than one year conducted by the
Department of Technical Education and Training
(DTET) ; or
(c) Should have followed a related professional
course not less than one year conducted by the
National Youth Services Council (NYSC) ; or
(d) Should have followed a related professional
course not less than one year conducted by the
V ocational Training Authority (VTA) ; or
(e) Should have followed a related professional
course not less than one year conducted by the
National Apprentice Training Department
(NAITA) ; or
(f) Should have followed a related professional
course not less than one year conducted by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
04 Driver - III 01 PL 3/2006A ( a) Should have passed General Certificate of
Rs. 12,470 -10x130 - 10x145 - Education (Ordinary Level) Examination
10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,860 minimum 6 subjects, with 02 credit passes, in
not more than two sittings, having passed 05
subjects in one sitting.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
487
Serial Name of the Number of Salary Scale Educational and other
No. Post V acancies Qualifications
(b) Should have a cometency certificate issued by
the Commissioner of Motor Traffic to drive
each type of vehicle, related to the post.
(c) Should possess a certificate of competencies
issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic
on driving private/hiring vehicles and station
wagons less than 24 cwt tare. (Should possess
a C class and C I class driving license or B class
driving license under new scheme issued by the
Commissioner of Motor Traffic, counting
minimum 03 years prior to the date of
recrutiment) ; and
Should possess a competency certificate issued
by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic for
driving heavy vehicles of 34cwt weight trailers
and buses which could take not more than 32
passengers. (Should possess a class A driving
license or new driving license under new scheme
issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic,
counting minimum 03 years prior to the date of
recruitment).
(d) Should possess 03 years experience as a driver,
after obtaining the driving license. Documental
proof is needed.
(e) Should have an excellent eye sight and
physically and mentally sound to serve in day
and as well as in night times.
(f) Minimum height should be at 5 feet and 2 1/2
inches and should have a sound knowledge in
Highway Code.
02. General Conditions for Recruitment :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Applicants should establish 3 years of permanent residency within the administrative limits of Ganga Ihala Korale
Pradeshiya Sabha at the closing date of applications.
(iii) Age limit not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years at the closing date of application should be established.
(Upper age limit is not applicable those who are presently employed in Government/Provincial Public Service) ;
(iv) Applicants should possess excellent moral character and best physical health to serve any part of the Island ;
(v) Should not have been convicted by a Court of Law under the Penal Code ;
(vi) Special preference will be given to those who serve under temporary, casual, substitute or contract basis in the Ganga
Ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. Method of Recruitment :
1. Applicants are subjected to face an interview and the suitable will be selected by a structrual interview :
2. The recruitment will be made on the basis of merit in a trade test, which is based on a written test faced by all the
applicants applied for the post of driver, who fulfill all the requirements needed.
Those who scored 40% marks or above from the written examination shall be faced the trade test to measure the
competency in driving vehicles. The recruitment will be made on to the merit order after the verification of all qualification
required therein.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
488
04. Terms of Employment :
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable.
(ii) Entitle for the contribution to Widow’s/Widower’s and Orphans Fund.
(iii) The appointments will be subjected to a period of probation for 03 years.
(iv) In addition to the terms and conditions of recruitment, appointees should comply with the regulations of the Establishments
Code, the orders that may be laid down by the Governor and Provincial Public Services Commission, Commissioner of
Local Government and the Chief of the Local Government Institution.
(v) The Secretary to the Ganga Ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha reserves all such powers to delay or alter such recruitment or
cancel or amend this notification after calling applications or during such process.
05. Method of Application.– Applications prepared to the specimen given below on A4 paper, should be sent to the Secretary,
Ganga Ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, Kurunduwatta Bazaar, on or before 07.07.2014, under registered post. The post applied for should
be marked clearly on the left hand corner of the envelope. (officers already serving in the Provincial Public Service, should forward their
application through their Head of the Department. Incomplete and the late applications will be rejected.
06. Documents should be forwarded .– Copies of the following documents should be sent along with the application. Original
documents should be produced at the interview :
(i) Birth Certificate.
(ii) Educational Certificates.
(iii) Residential proof certified by the Divisional Secretary.
(iv) Two recent character certificates (one of them should be issued by the Grama Niladhari).
(v) Service certificates (those who are public servants only).
If there any contradiction in Tamil, English translations the Sinhala meaning will be taken.
D. A. R
ANJANI PREMALA THA,
Secretary,
Ganga Ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kurunduwatta Bazaar.
04th June, 2014.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION
GANGA IHALA KORALE PRADESHIYA SABHA
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ..............................
01. ( a) Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(b) Full Name :–––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––.
04. Male/Female :–––––––––––––.
05. Civil status :–––––––––––––.
06. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
07. Citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration ? :–––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications (attach copies) :–––––––––––––.
09. Professional qualifications and experience of service :–––––––––––––.
10. If you are already employed in Ganga Ihala Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, present post held :–––––––––––––.
Whether it is permanent/casual/temporary/substitutes/allowance basis :–––––––––––––.
Date of appointment to the post :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
489
I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I
do aware that if particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before selection and to dismiss
without any compensation if detected after the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
06–658
Local Government Notifications
BINGIRIYA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA – BINGIRIYA
Changing the Name of the Road
SINCE the approval of Hon. Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government in the Northwestern Province Provincial Council has
been given to the Resolution passed under No. 04-1 at the monthly meeting of the pradeshiya Sabha held on 31.10.2013 in order to name
the centre Road of Heenpannawa village as "Ananda Abeysinghe Mawatha" which belongs to the area of authority of this Pradeshiya
Sabha, it is hereby informed that the above mentioned road has been called as "Ananda Abeysinghe Mawatha" with effect from
30.04.2014 in accordance with the section 198 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
E. M. D
IMUTH THUSHARA EKANA YAKE,
Chairman,
Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha,
Bingiriya.
Office of Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabha,
Bingiriya.
13th May, 2014.
06-510
–––––––––––––––––
WARAKAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Notice under Section 24(1) (a) and 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that as per the decision No. 12-01 reached at the General Meeting held on 30.10.2012 by Warakapola Prades hiya
Sabha in Kegalle district of the Sabaragamuwa Province by virtue of powers vested in under Section 24 of Pradeshiya sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987, Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha has decided that the roads mentioned and described in the following schedules are fit to be declared
as roads belong to the Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha.
It is hereby notified that the list of roads indicated in the following schedules will be declared as roads belong to the Warakapola
Pradeshiya Sabha, after obtaining the approval of the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa Province in terms of Sec tion
24(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
If any objection is raised thereon by the public in the area concerned or by any party who calims any right as an owner of the
land related to this road, such objections shall be submitted within three (3) months from the date on which this notification is published
in the Gazette in order to prove their rights in terms of section 24(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
It is hereby declared that if no objection is submitted, the roads mentioned and described in said schedules will be recognized and
maintained as roads belong to the Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha.
KEERTHISIRI WIJETHUNGE,
Chairman,
Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
490
01. Grama Niladhari Division 97 Uduwaka V illage : Paranathala
Name of the road : W erellahena Road Width : 4.2 meters
Length of the road : 250 meters
Place of beginning : Near the junction of the Algama to Galapitamada Road.
Boundaries of the road
Left side Right Side
Lalith Ranathunge - Epiyaovita Watta H. A. Chandrasena  - Epitaovita Watta
H. A. Anusha Sanjeewanie - Werellahena H. A. Saman Pradeep Kumara - Werellahena
H. A. Kalyani  Werellahena H. A. Kalyani - Werellahena
H. A. Bailinsingho - Werellahena  H.A. Bailinsingho - Werellahena
02. Grama Niladhari Division 94B Niwatuwa V illage - Pahala Weligalla Kosnawala
Name of the road Makulugahayata Road  Width 4.2 meters
Length of the road 128 meters
Place of beginning - Near the Makulugahayata cross road in the Pahala Weligalla, Kosnawala road Boundaries of the road-
Left side Right Side
W. Somarathne - Wahakulahena Kumbura K. A. Piyadasa Dambagolla Kumbura
P. H/ Mallika Rohini - Wahakulahena Kumbura P . H. Ananda Piyasena - Dambagolla Kumbura
B. P. Darmapala - Wahakulahena Kumbura P . H. Athula Dayarathne - Dambagolla Kumbura
B. P. Piyadasa - Wahakulahena Kumbura
P H Gunadasa - Makulugahayata Kumbura
B. P. Saman Karunasena Makulugahayata Kumbura
K. A. Piyadasa Makulugahayata Kumbura
03. Grama Niladhari Division 79A Kalugala V illage Ehala Kalugala
Name of the road Narangahahena Road Width 3.36 meters
Length of the road 400 meters
Place of beginning Near the Sanath Dammikas House in the land called Beedy Room of the Kalugala Karapane Road.
Boundaries of the road
Left Side Right Side
Kalugala Soratha Thero - Paranawatta also as Hitinawatta Ranjith Somarathne - Paranawatta also known as Hitinawatta
R. P. C. Udaya Kumara - Narangahahena R. P. C. Udaya Kumara - Narangahahena
R. P. Piyasena - Narangahahena R. P. Piyasena Narangahahena
S. M. Smarasinghe - Narangahahena S. M. Samarasinghe Narangahahena
R. D. Ghanasinghe - Narangahahena R. D. Sujeewa Gunasinghe - Narangahahena
R. D. Chinthaka Gunasinghe Narangahahena W. D. Premawathie - Narangahahena
R. A. K. Depthika Ranasinghe - Narangahahena
04. Grama Niladhari Division - Thumbaliyadda V illage - Thumbaliyadda
Name of the road - Kosgahahena Width 2.10 meteres
Length of the road - 145 meters
Place of beginning Near the stream on the road running from Thumbaliadda junction to Hapugalgoda Watta.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
491
Boundaries of the road-
Left Side Right Side
W. Nandawathi Kandearamba, Lidamulahena W. Nandawathi Kandearamba, - Lindamulahena
W. Dailin Gunasilie -Halgahamulahena W.  Dailin, Gunasilie - Halgahamulahena
05. Grama Niladhari Division - 90A Pahala Lenagala V illage Pahala Lenagala
Name of the road Purana Road Width 3.36 Meters
Length of the road 150 meters
Place of beginning Near the PS road in Pahala Lenagala.
Boundaries of the road -
Left Side Right Side
P. Mahindapala - Dangolla Kumbura Right by the stream
W. Wijerathna and others - Dangolla Kumbura
S. H. Simandiris, S. H. Diyonis and others - Dangolla Kumbura
D. Gunapala and others
06. Grama Niladhari Division - Menikkadawara V illage - Menikkadawara
Name of the road - The road  running from Menikkadawara Bridge to Gonawawatta, Udahagedara Galadanda
Length of the road - 200 meters Width 3.7 meters
Place of beginning Near the bridge
Boundaries of the road -
Left Side Right Side
R. M. Hemachandra Rathnayake - Liyanagahakumbura Y. K. Mudiyanse- Dehigahamulyadda
P. R. Thilakarathne Renukawa Y.  K. Hemalatha Dehigahamulla Kumbura
Mallika Rathnayake - Oliyakumbura Piyasili Mallika Dehigahamula Kumbura
T. A. Sisira Kumara - Oliyakumbura P. R. Shantha Kumara -Ketheovita Kumbura
R. M. Wickrma Rathnayake - Liyanagahakumbura M. R. Thilakerathna - Ketheovita Kumbura
Y . K. Menike Yatiyankumbura Menike Yatiyankumbura - Oliyakumbura
Y . K. S. Herath Renukawa Heriat Shanthi Kumari - Ketheovita Kumbura
H. L. Viraj Asanka Liyanage - Renukawa
P. R. Podimenike - Renukawa
U. K. Podibanda - Dehigahamulaliyadda
U. K. Sunil Premathilake Oliyakumbura
06-559/2
––––––––––––––––––
WARAKAPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Notice under Section 24(1) (a) and 24 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15, of 1987
IT is hereby notified that as per the decision No. 08. 04 reached at the General Meeting held on 26.06.2012 by Warakapola Prade shiya
Sabha in Kegalle District of the Sabaragamuwa Province by virtue of powers vested in under section 24 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987, Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha has decided that the roads mentioned and described in the following schedules are fit to be declared
as roads belong to the Warakopala Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
492
It is hereby notified that the list of roads indicated in the following schedules will be declared as roads belong to the Warakapola
Pradeshiya Sabha, after obtaining the approval of the Minister of Local Government of Sabaragamuwa Province in terms of section 24(1)
or Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
If any obejction is raised thereon by the public in the area concerned or by any party who calims any right as an owner of the
land related to this road, such objections shall be submitted within three (3) months from the date on which this notification is published
in the Gazette in order to prove their right in terms of section 24(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
It is hereby declared that if no objection is submitted, the roads mentioned and described in said schedules will be recognized and
maintained as roads belong to the Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha.
KEERTHISIRI WIJETHUNGE,
Chairman,
Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha.
01. Grama Niladhari Division  -92E, Ganithapura V illage - Medagoda
Name of the road K. P. Manelwatta Width 2.43 Meters
Length of the road 153.35 Meters
Place of begining the road running from Warakapola to Ganithapura juction, Boundary of the land Edahena in Kadangamuwewatta
Boundaries of the road :
Left Side Right Side
R. K. Gunapala - Kadangamuwewatta Sunil Jayanthasiri  Bandarawatta
K. P. Chamila - Kadangamuwewattha Asoka Premarathna - Ukkuge Watta also Known
Podihamine- Kadangamuwewattta Pangukarayage Watta, Nekathige Watta
Ayupala Ekanayake - Kadangamuwewatta
Sunil Shantha - Hitinawatta
N.P. Wijerathna - Edahena
K. P. Podibanda - Edahena
02. Grama Niladhari Division 93E, Hallawa V illage Hallawa
Name of the road - The running from Udathupitiya, Hallawa to Hallawa Estate
Width 3 metres Length of the road 500 Metres
Place of begining  Near the boutique at Udatupitiya Hallawa of Warakapola - Anguruwella road Boundaries of the road.
Left Side Right Side
M. K. Sumanawathi -Udatipitiya Watta M. K. Sumanawathi - UdatipitiyaWatta
W. A. Ranjani Weerakkody -Hitinawatta W. A. Ranjani Weerakkody Hitinawatta
R. P. Thushara  Sampath - Hitinawatta R. P. Thushara Sampath - Hitinawatta
J. M/Hemawathi Menike - Hitinawatta J. M./Hemawathi Menike - Hitinawatta
W. A. S. L. Weerakkody/Hitinawatta J.M/Hemawathi Menike- Hitinawatta
W. A. S. L. Weerakkody-Assedduma Kumbura J.M. Hemawathi  Menike - Asseddum Kumbura
D. T. Hemarathne - Paranawatta D. T. Hemarathne - Paranawatta
W. Seranelies - Estate Division H. A. Podimenike - State Division
03. Grama Niladhari Division 87C, Kinivita V illage - Kinivita
Name of the road - The road running from Bakamuna to Dorowa.
Width 2.44 Metres Length of the road 1000 Metres
Place of begining - from the Sramadana Mawatha

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'20
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2014
493
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Boundaries of the road :
Left Side Right Side
M.Sisira Kumara - Thalagahawattawela M. Sisira Kumara - Thalagahawattawela
M. Deepa - Tennehena M. Upul Ghanakeerthi - Goda Idama Talagahawatta
H. Karunadewa - Tennehena M. Weerasuriya - Talagahawatta
Karunarathne - Tennehena P. M. Kapila Dissanayake - Ihalawatta
P. M. Babanis - Ihalawatta
M. Piyasena - Bakamuna Dorowwa.
P. M. Somarathne - Bakamuna Dorowwa
M. Upul - Tennahena
M. Upul - Tennahena Tennahena
Karunarathne - Tennahena
04. Grama Niladhari Division 92, Kukulpane
Name of the road - Kambilipitiya Road Width - 2.43 metres
Length of the road -192 Metres
Place of begining - From the place turning to South in the Kohombadeniya main road across Dammulla
Boundaries of the road :
Left Side Right Side
D. Somapala -Kapuwaulhena B. T. Amila Aberathne - Kumbura Tennapitahena also known as Hitinawatta
D. Pushpakanthi - Tepelawattahena D. Wilbert Perera -Kumbura Tennapitahena also known as Hitinawatta
D. Somapala Lidawattahena D. Sophia - Kumbura Tennapitahena also known as Hitinawala
D. Somapala - Kapuwaulhena D. Upali - Kumbura Tennapitahena also known as Hitinawala.
06-559/1