

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'12
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI   LANKA – 12.07.2018
1 A
wxl 2079$66 - 2018 cQ,s ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'07'12
No. 2079/66  –  THURSDAY ,  JULY  12, 2018
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
1. This statute shall be cited as Agro Services Amendment Authority S tatute of Western
Province Provincial Council No.... of 2018 and it will be enforced from the date of assent
of Hon. Governor of Western Province.
2. Having removed Section 03 of the Agro Services Authority Statute No. 01 of 2012 which
shall be cited hereinafter as the Main Statute, and by substituting the following section
instead, that Section will be amended hereby.
Providing facilities to improve the economy of farmer community of the province through
agricultural development, providing the required knowledge, modern technology and
support services to cultivate lands efficiently would be the objective of the Authority.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A - PG 4120 — 207 (2018/07)
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
The revised Statute of the Western Provincial Agro Services Authority is attached herewith.
HON. GAMINI THILAKASIRI,
Minister of Agriculture, Land, Irrigation,
Fisheries, Animal Product & Health,
and Agrarian Development of the Western Province.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Land, Irrigation, Fisheries,
Animal Product & Health and Agrarian Development
of the Western Province Provincial Council,
Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
20th June 2018.
Agro Services Authority (Amendment) Statute of Western Province No.... of 2018
A Statute to amend the Agro Services Authority Statute of Western Province No. 01 of 2012.
Be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :
Short Title and
Date of
Enforcement
Amending
Section 3

<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'12
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI   LANKA – 12.07.2018
2 A
3. Sub section (2) of Section 4 in the Main Statute shall be removed hereby and by substituting
the following Sub section instead, that Section shall be amended hereby.
(2) The Management Board shall comprise the following mentioned seven members.
(a) The following mentioned four members shall be appointed ex-officio.
I. Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject or his representative ;
II. Provincial Director of Agriculture ;
III. Provincial Director of Irrigation ;
IV . Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) ;
(b) The following members appointed by the Provincial Minister in Charge of the
subject (hereinafter referred to as “Appointed Members”)
I. A person from the agriculture sector with practical experience ;
II. A person excelled either in the subject of Environmental Science or
Environmental Protection ;
III. A person with knowledge on marketing of agricultural products.
4. Sub section (8) of Section 6 of the Main Statute shall be removed hereby and that Section
will be amended hereby by inserting the following Sub section instead.
(8) Chief Executive Officer or other suitable officer may be appointed as the Secretary
of the Management Board.
5. Immediately after sub section (12) of Section 8 of the Main Statute, the following Sub
sections will be inserted and they shall be enforced as Sections (13), (14), (15), (16),
(17), (18), (19) respectively.
(13) Encouraging the community to cultivate cultivatable land plots which have not been
cultivated.
(14) Making available space to uplift the living conditions of the community through
provision of knowledge, inputs, skills and assistance for subsistence crops or
commercial crops, or crops or cultivations that are important in terms of
environmental science.
(15) Providing technical assistance and training on selection of crops, preparation of
nurseries, and distribution of seeds and method of cultivation.
(16) Enco uraging and promoting environmental friendly cultivation.
(17) Providing agricultural technological services on commercial basis.
(18) Providing financial facilities for agricultural commercial entrepreneurs.
(19) Providing the necessary assistance to programs implemented by the Provincial
Ministry of Agriculture.
6. Section 9 of the Main Statute will be amended hereby as follows.
(1) By removing Sub-section (5) of Section 9 in the Main Statute and by substituting
the below mentioned Sub-section ;
(5) Prescribing allowances and remunerations as per provisions issued from time to
time by the Provincial Authority, ordering specific Rules of Procedures and
Disciplinary Procedures relevant to service regulations and conditions, regulations
Amending
Section 4
Amending
Section 6
Amending
Section 8
Amending
Section 9

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi  – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'12
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI   LANKA – 12.07.2018
3 A
pertaining to financial control of the Authority’s Fund to be ordered by the regulations
made under this statute.
However, the Disciplinary Procedure adopted for officers of Western Provincial
Public Service and Financial Rules of Western Province shall be adopted to required
level respectively until the Authority formulates disciplinary procedures for the
control of Authority’s officers and with regard to financial control of Authority’s
Fund.
and ;
(2) By inserting the following Sub-section as Section 9(11) immediately after Sub-
section 9 (10)
(11) All the powers required for accomplishment of objectives under this statute.
7. Sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Main Statute is removed hereby and by substituting
the following stated Sub-section instead, that Section shall be amended hereby.
(1) There shall be a Chief Executive Officer for the Authority and the Director shall be
the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority. The Authority’s Director shall be
appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry according to the Recruitment Procedure.
8. Section 12 of the Main Statute will be amended by removing it.
9. Section 16 of the Main Statute shall be amended hereby after removing Section 16 and
substituting the following section instead.
All the officers and employees of the Authority shall be considered as Public Service
Officers and employees with regard to provisions of the Penal Code, the Authority shall
be considered as a scheduled institute as interpreted by the Bribery Act wherein provisions
of the said Act shall be applicable.
10. Having removed the words “Provincial Council means the Western Provincial Council”
in Section 17 of the Main Statute and by substituting “Provincial Council means the
Western Province Provicial Council” instead, that section is amended hereby.
Amending
Section 11
Removal
Section 12
Amending
Section 17
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
07 - 925
Amending
Section 16