

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 9.50  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 1, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 31st March, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
FINANCE (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  7  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005 1
Short title.
2 —PL 000175 —5,650 (03/2005)
[Certified on 31st  March, 2005]
L. D. — O. 11/2005.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  FINANCE  ACT , NO .11 OF  2004; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE
IMPOSITION  OF  A  WITHHOLDING  TAX  ON  THE  REGISTRA TION OF  MOTOR  VEHICLES ;
AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  AND
INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amendment) Act,
No. 7 of  2005.
PART I
A MENDMENT  OF  PART  I OF  THE  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2004
2. The Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 (in this Part referred to
as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection
(3) of section 2 of Part I (Imposition of an Economic Service
Charge) of that Act, as follows :—
(1) in the definition of the expression of “liable turnover”
by the substitution for the words “other than any
trade, business, profession or vocation” of the words
“other than any trade, business (not being any trade
or business which deals in the wholesale or retail of
such goods, not manufactured or produced by such
person or partnership), or profession or vocation”;
and
(2) in the definition of the expression of “turnover” by
the repeal of paragraph (ii) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph :—
“(ii)the total proceeds from the disposal of any
capital assets ; and”.
Amendment of
section 2 of
Part 1 of Act
No. 11 of
2004.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005
3. Section  3 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “any person or partnership for any
relevant year of assessment may be deducted from
the relevant income tax payable by that person or
partnership for that relevant year” of the words “any
person for any relevant year of assessment, shall be
deducted from the relevant income tax if any, payable
by that person for that relevant year” ;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsection, which
shall have effect as subsection (1
A ) thereof :—
“(1A ) The amount of any service charge paid by
any partnership for any relevant year of assessment
shall be apportioned among the partners of such
partnership in the ratio in which such partners share
the profits or lossess of such partnership for that
relevant year of assessment : the amount of the
service charge so apportioned to any partner, shall
be deducted from the relevant income tax payable
by such partner for such relevant year of assessment
(hereinafter referred to as the “first - mentioned
relevant year of assessment”).”;
(3) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “The balance, if any, of such service
charge after its deduction in accordance with
subsection (1) shall be deducted from the relevant
income tax payable by such person or partnership
for the relevant year” of the words “The balance, if
any, of such service charge paid by any person after
its deduction in accordance with subsection (1) shall
be deducted from the relevant income tax payable
by such person for that relevant year”. ;
(4) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of
that section, of the following new subsection, which
shall have effect as subsection (2
A ) thereof :—
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005 3
 
“(2A ) The balance, if any, of  any service charge
apportioned to any partner in accordance with
subsection (1
A ), after its deduction in accordance with
subsection (1A ) shall be deducted from the relevant
income tax payable by such partner for the relevant
year of assessment immediately succeeding the first –
mentioned relevant year of assessment (hereinafter
referred to as the “first succeeding relevant year of
assessment”).”;
(5) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution for
the words “The residue, if any, of the balance of such
service charge after its deduction in accordance with
subsection (2), shall be deducted from the relevant
income tax payable for the relevant year” of the words
“The residue, if any, of the balance of such service
charge or of the portion of such service charge, as the
case may be, after its deduction in  accordance with the
provisions of either subsection (2) or subsection (2
A ),
shall be deducted from the relevant income tax payable
by such person or such partner of such partnership as
the case may be, for the relevant year” ;
(6) by the repeal of subsection (5) of the principal
enactment and the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—
“(5) For the purposes of this section and in relation
to any relevant year of assessment, the expression—
“attributable to the liable turnover” in relation to
any part of the share of the divisible profits of
any partner of any partnership means the sum
which bears to the share of the divisible profits
of such partner from such partnership for such
relevant year of assessment the same proportion
as the liable turnover of such partnership for such
relevant year of assessment bears to the turnover
of such partnership for such relevant year of
assessment ;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005
“relevant income tax payable” in relation to—
(a) any person in so far as such person is not
a partner of any partnership, means the
sum which bears to the aggregate
statutory income of that person for that
relevant year of assessment, from every
trade, business, profession or vocation
carried on or exercised by that person,
other than any trade, business, (not being
any trade or business which deals in the
wholesale or retail of such goods, not
manufactured or produced by such
person), profession or vocation, the
commercial operations of which has
commenced, whether by such person or
by any other person or partnership, on a
date which falls within the period of
thirty six months immediately preceding
the first day of that relevant year of
assessment, the same proportion as the
total income tax payable by such person
for that relevant year of assessment bears
to the total statutory income of that
person for that relevant year of
assessment; and
(b) any person, in so far as such person is a
partner of any partnership, means the sum
which bears to such part of the share of
the divisible profits of such person from
such partnership as is attributable to the
liable turnover of every trade, business,
profession or vocation carried on or
exercised by such partnership, the same
proportion as the total income tax
payable by such person for that relevant
year of assessment bears to the total
statutory income of that person for that
relevant year of assessment;

<!-- page 6 -->

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005 5
“total income tax payble” in relation to any person
means the sum  ascertained by the application of
the income tax rate as is specified in the
appropriate Schedule to the Inland Revenue Act,
to the taxable income of such person for that
relevant year of assessment”; and
(7) by the substitution for the marginal note to that section
of the following :—
“Service Charge to be deducted from the relevant
income tax”.
4. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words and figures “Chapters XIX,
XX, XXI” of the words and figures “Chapters XII, XIX, XX,
XXI”.
5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 11 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 11
A  of that enactment :—
11A . (1) The Minister may make regulations in
respect of all matters which are required by this
Act to be prescribed or in respect of which
regulations are required or authorized to be made
under this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the
generality of the powers conferred by subsection
(1), the Minster may make regulations specifying
the guidlines relating to the meaning of the
expression “turnover” as is used in subsection (3)
of section 2 is to be ascertained in its application
to cases where the proviso to the definition of the
expression “turnover” in that subsection does not
apply.
(3)  Every regulation made under subsection
(1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of publication, or
on such later date as may be specified therein.
Amendment
of section 11
of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of
new section
11
A  in the
principal
enactment.“Regulations.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005
(4) Every regulation made under subsection
(1) shall, as soon as convenient after its
publication in the Gazette, be placed before
Parliament for approval. Every regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of disapproval, but
without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any
regulation is deemed to be so rescinded shall
be published in the Gazette.”.
6. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the substitution in the definition of the
expressions “agent”, “allowance for depreciation”,
and “Assessor”, the  expressions “agent”, “allowance
for depreciation”, “Assessor” and “Company” ;
(2) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“BOI enterprise” and the substitution therefor of
the following :—
“BOI enterprise” in relation to any relevant
year of assessment means any enterprise
in relation to which the  exemption of its
profits and income from income tax, in
terms of any agreement entered into by
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka with
such enterprise under section 17 of the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No.
4 of 1978, subsists during the whole or
any part thereof of that relevant year of
assessment ;”;
(3) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“person” and the substitution therefor of the
following :—
“person” includes a company or a body of persons,
but does not include-
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005 7
(a) any registered society, within the meaning
of the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of
1972 ;
(b) any non-resident person carrying on
business  as an owner or charterer of an
aircraft or ship ; ”.
7. (1) The provisions of Part 1 of this Act shall subject to
subsection (2) be deemed for all purposes to have come into
effect on April 1, 2005.
(2) The following provisions shall be deemed for all purposes
to have come into operation from  April  1, 2004 :—
(a) the amendment made to section 3 of the
principal enactment by items (1), (2), (3),
(4), (5) and (6) of section 3 of this Act ; and
(b) the amendment made to section 12 of the
principal enactment by item (2) of section
6 of this Act.
PART II
A
MENDMENT  OF  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2004 TO
 INCLUDE  NEW  PART  IIIA .
8. The following new Part is hereby inserted immediately
after section 28 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 and shall
have effect as Part IIIA (sections 28
A ,  28B , 28c, and 28D ) of that
enactment :—
“PART IIIA
IMPOSITION  OF  WITHHOLDING  TAX  ON  THE
REGISTRATION  OF  MOTOR  VEHICLES
28A . (1) There shall be levied in accordance
with the rates as are specified in section 28B , with
effect from April 1, 2005, a withholding tax, on
every applicant seeking to register a motor vehicle,
in respect of every motor vehicle registered by the
Commissioner of Motor Traffic in accordance with
the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act, (Chapter
203) other than on three-wheelers, lorries and buses
used solely for  the purpose of providing public
transport.
Insertion of
new Part IIIA
in the Finance
Act, No. 11 of
2004.
Imposition of
withholding
tax on motor
vehicles.
Operation of
Part 1 and
retrospective
operation of
sections.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005
For the purpose of this section “motor
vehicle” shall have the same meaning as in the
Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203).
(2) The Commissioner of Motor Traffic shall
not issue in respect of any motor vehicle a
Certificate of Registration unless the
withholding tax payable in terms of this section
has been paid by the applicant. Any tax paid
under this section shall be duly acknowledged
by the issue of a Certificate to the applicant.
28B . The collection of the withholding tax
imposed under section 28A  shall be at the
following rates :—
(a) for a first registration of a motor vehicle,
a sum of rupees five thousand ; and
(b) for every other registration a sum of rupees
one thousand.
28C .     The Commissioner of Motor Traffic
shall remit the amount collected by him as
withholding tax in terms of this Part to the
Commissioner-General on or before the
fifteenth day of the month following the month
in which the tax was collected along with a
return of the moneys collected by him.
28 D . Any person who has paid the
withholding tax in terms of this part of the Act,
shall be entitled to deduct such withholding
tax from the income tax payable by such person
under the Inland Revenue Act.”.
PART III
A MENDMENT  OF  SCHEDULE  TO  THE  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2004
9. The Schedule to the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004,
(relating to the rate of Service Charge chargeble under Part I)
is hereby amended as follows :—
Rate at
which the
tax is to be
calculated.
Amount
collected to
be remitted
to the
Secretary to
the
Treasury.
Amendment of
Schedule to the
Finance Act, No.
11 of 2004.
Withholding
tax to be
deducted
from
income tax.

<!-- page 10 -->

Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005 9
(1) by the substitution in item 2 that Schedule for the words
and figures “any BOI enterprise which had entered into
an agreement under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978.” of the
words “any BOI enterprise.”;
(2) by the substitution in item 4 of that Schedule for the
words “any trade, business, profession or vocation” of
the words “any trade or business (not being any trade
or business which deals in the wholesale or retail  of
such goods, not manufactured or produced by the
dealer) or profession or vocation” ; and
(3) by the addition immediately after item 4 of that
Schedule, of the following new item :—
“5. Such part of the liable turnover as
consists of the turnover from any trade
or business which deals in the
wholesale or retail  of such goods, not
manufactured or produced by the
dealer.
10. In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
0.5 per centum.”.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.