

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.01.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2262$31 - 2022 ckjdß ui 13 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'01'13
No.  2262/31  -   thursdAY,    JANuArY  13,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  G 35897 — 510  (01/2022)
 L.d.B 3/2013 (ii)
MERChANT  ShIPPING  ACT,  No.  52  Of  1971
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Ports and shipping under section 321 of the Merchant shipping Act, No. 52 of 
1971 read with section 44 of the said Act. 
 Rohitha abeygunawaRdena, 
 Minister of Ports and shipping.
Colombo, 
29th december, 2021.
         
Regulations
1. (1) these regulations may be cited as the Merchant shipping (t onnage Measurement of ships) regulations,             
No. 10 of 2021.
    (2)  the purpose of these regulations shall be to give effect to the International Convention on tonnage 
Measurement of Ships, 1969, ratified by Sri Lanka on March 03,1992 (in these regulations referred to as the 
“Convention”) as amended from time to time and any subsequent amendment made to such Convention.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.01.2022
2A
PART I
Applicability of these Regulations
2. (1) subject to the provisions of the sub-regulation (2) and (3) of this regulation, these regulations shall apply to 
the ships which are entitled to fly the Sri Lanka flag and engaged in international voyages, and to any other 
foreign ships which are in sri Lanka waters.
     (2) Except as expressly provided otherwise in the Convention these regulations shall not apply to:
 (a) ships of war; and
 (b)  ships of less than 24 meters (79 feet) in length.
 (3)  Except as expressly provided in the Convention, the provisions of these regulations shall not apply to sri 
Lankan ships solely navigating the Great Lakes of North America and the river st. Lawrence as far east as 
a rhumb line drawn from Cap des rosiers to West Point, Anticosti Island, and, on the north side of Anticosti 
Island, 63
rd meridian and the Caspian sea; or the Plate, Parana and uruguay rivers as far east as a rhumb 
line drawn between Punta rasa (Cabo san Antonio), Argentina, and Punta del Este, uruguay.
3. (1) A ship which is not subject to the provisions of the Convention at the time of its departure on any voyage shall 
not become subject to such provisions on account of any deviation from its intended voyage due to stress of 
weather or any other cause of force majeure.
    (2) In applying the provisions of the Convention, the director-General shall give due consideration to any deviation 
or delay caused to any ship owing to stress of weather or any other cause of force majeure. 
PART II
Certification and Inspection
4.  (1)  the determination of gross and net tonnages shall be carried out by the director-General of Merchant shipping 
(hereinafter referred to as the “director- General”) in accordance with Part III of these regulations. 
 (2)  The Director-General shall issue an International Tonnage Certificate to every ship, the gross & net tonnages 
of which have been determined in accordance with Part III of these regulations.
 
 (3) (a) the director-General may for the purpose of sub-regulations (1) and (2) recognize any organization (In 
these regulations referred to as the “recognized Organization”) in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code for recognized Organization.
  (b) The Director-General shall assume full responsibility for the certificate. 
 (4) The certificate shall be drawn up in the format set out in the Annex II of the Convention and shall be in English 
language.
      
5. (1) the director-General may, at the request of a Contracting Government determine the gross and net tonnages 
of a ship and issue or authorize the issuance of an International Tonnage Certificate to the ship in accordance 
with the Convention. Any certificate so issued shall contain a statement to the effect that it has been issued 
at the request of the Contracting Government of the state whose flag the ship is or will be entitled to fly and 
it shall have the same force and receive the same recognition as a certificate issued by the Director-General 
under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.01.2022
3A
 (2)  A copy of the certificate and a copy of the calculations of the tonnages referred in sub-regulation (1) shall be 
transmitted by the director-General as early as possible to the requesting Government.   
 (3)  the director-General may request the Contracting Government to determine the gross and net tonnages of a 
ship and issue or authorize an International Tonnage Certificate to the ship in accordance with the Convention. 
Any certificate so issued shall contain a statement to the effect that it has been issued at the request of the 
Government of Sri Lanka and it shall have the same force and receive the same recognition as a certificate 
issued by the director-General under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4.
6.  (1) Subject to any exceptions provided in these regulations, an International Tonnage Certificate shall cease to 
be valid and shall be cancelled by the director-General, if alterations have taken place in the arrangement, 
construction, capacity, use of spaces, total number of passengers the ship is permitted to carry as indicated in 
the ship’s passenger certificate, assigned load line or permitted draught of the ship, such as would necessitate 
an increase in gross tonnage or net tonnage.
 (2)  A certificate issued to a ship by the Director-General shall cease to be valid upon transfer of such a ship to 
the flag of another State, except as provided in sub-regulation (3) of this regulation. 
 (3)  Upon transfer of a ship from the Sri Lanka Register to the flag of another State of a Contracting Government, 
the International Tonnage Certificate shall remain in force for a period not exceeding three months, or until 
the Contracting Government issues another International Tonnage Certificate to replace it, whichever occurs 
first. The Director-General shall transmit a copy of the certificate and relevant tonnage calculations to the 
Contracting Government to which the ship has been transferred. 
7.  The Certificate issued under the authority of a Contracting Government shall be accepted by the Director-General 
for all purposes covered by the Convention. they shall be regarded by the director-General as having the same 
force as certificates issued by them.
8.  (1)  A foreign ship when in any port or place in Sri Lanka shall be subjected to inspection by officers duly authorized 
by the director-General. 
 (2)  Inspections referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be limited to the purpose of verifying:
 
 (a) that the ship is provided with a valid International Tonnage Certificate; and
 
 (b)  that the main characteristics of the ship correspond to the data given in the certificate. 
 (3)  the inspection referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall not cause any delay to the ship.
 (4)  When the inspection reveal that the main characteristics of the ship differ from those on the International 
Tonnage Certificate so as to lead to an increase in the gross tonnage (GT) or the net tonnage, the Government 
of the State whose flag the ship is flying shall be informed without delay.
9.  The privileges of the Convention may not be claimed in favor of any ship, unless it holds a valid certificate 
referred in regulation 4 of these regulations.
10. the director-General shall undertake to communicate to and deposit with the Organization -
 (a)  a sufficient number of specimens of their certificates issued under the provisions of the Convention for 
circulation to the Contracting Governments;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.01.2022
4A
 (b)  the text of the laws, orders, decrees, regulations and other instruments which shall have been promulgated 
by sri Lanka on the various matters within the scope of the Convention; and 
 (c)  a list of recognized Organizations which are authorized to act on behalf of the director-General in matters 
relating to tonnages. 
PART III
Determination of Gross and Net Tonnage of Ships 
11. (1) the tonnage of a ship shall consist of gross tonnage (Gt) and net tonnage.
 (2)  the gross tonnage (Gt) of a ship shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the regulation 
3 of the Convention —
 (3)  the net tonnage (Nt) of a ship shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the regulation 4 
of the Convention —
 (4)  the gross tonnage (Gt) and the net tonnage of novel types of craft whose constructional features are such 
as to render the application of the provisions of these regulations unreasonable or impracticable shall be 
as determined by the director-General. Where the tonnage is so determined, the director-General shall 
communicate to the Organization details of the method used for that purpose.
12. (1)  Change of net tonnage necessitating issue of certificate—when alterations in the values of V , Vc, d, N1 
or N2 as defined in regulations 3 and 4 of the Convention, are altered and where such alteration results in 
an increase in the net tonnage as determined in accordance with the provisions of the regulation 4 of the 
Convention, the new net tonnage of the ship corresponding to the new characteristics shall be determined 
and shall be applied without delay.  
  (2)  A ship to which load lines referred to in sub-paragraphs (2)(a) and (2)(b) of the  regulation 4 of the Convention 
are concurrently assigned shall be given only one net tonnage as determined in accordance with the provisions 
of regulation 4 of the Convention and that tonnage shall be the tonnage applicable to the appropriate assigned 
load line for the trade in which the ship is engaged.
 (3)  When the characteristics of a ship such as V , Vc, d, N1 or N2 as defined in Regulations 3 and 4 of the 
Convention are altered or when the appropriate assigned load line referred to in sub-regulation (2) of this 
regulation is altered due to the change of the trade in which the ship is engaged, and where such an alteration 
results in a decrease in its net tonnage as determined in accordance with the provisions of regulation 4 of 
the Convention, a new International Tonnage Certificate (1969) incorporating the net tonnage so determined 
shall not be issued until twelve months have elapsed from the date on which the current Certificate was 
issued; provided that this requirement shall not apply:
 (a)  If the ship is transferred to the flag of another State, or
 (b)  If the ship undergoes alterations or modifications which are deemed by the Director-General to be of 
a major character, such as the removal of a superstructure which requires an alteration of the assigned 
load line, or
 (c)  to passenger ships which are employed in the carriage of large numbers of unberthed passengers in 
special trades.
13. (1) A calculation of all volumes included in the calculation of gross and net tonnages shall be measured, 
irrespective of the fitting of insulation or the like, to the inner side of the shell or structural boundary plating 
in ships constructed of metal, and to the outer surface of the shell or to the inner side of the structural 
boundary surfaces in ships constructed of any other material.
   

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 13.01.2022
5A
(2)  the volumes of appendages shall be included in the total volume.
(3)  the volumes of spaces open to the sea shall be excluded from the total volume.
14.  (1)  All measurements used in the calculation of volumes shall be taken to the nearest centimeter or one twentieth 
of a foot.
(2)  the volumes shall be calculated by generally accepted methods for the space concerned and with accuracy
acceptable to the director-General.
(3)  The calculation shall be sufficiently detailed to permit easy checking.
PART IV
General
15.  Where segregated ballast tanks complying with regulation 18 of Annex 1 of the International Convention for
the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating to that Convention,
are provided in oil tankers, an entry may be made on the International Tonnage Certificate (1969) indicating
the total tonnage of these tanks. the tonnage of such segregated ballast shall be calculated according to the
following formula —
K1 x Vb
Where :
K1 = 0.2 + 0.02 log 10V
V  =  the total volume of all enclosed spaces of the ship in cubic meters as defined in regulation 3 of the 
Convention; and
Vb =  the total volume of segregated ballast tanks in cubic meters measures in accordance with regulation 6 of 
the Convention.
16. Where any ship, being in any port or place in sri Lanka, is found to be an unsafe ship, and is, by reason of the
defective condition of ship’s hull, equipment, or machinery, under manning, overloading or improper loading
or any other condition that is not consistent with Convention, unfit to proceed to sea without serious damage
to human life having regard to the service for which such ship is intended, such ship may be  provisionally
detained for the purpose of being surveyed or rectifying the defective condition.
17.
 t he director-General may, with the concurrence of the Minister issue such implementing standards for the
compliance with minimum technical standards of the provisions of the Convention as may be required for the
implementation of the provisions of these regulations.
18.  In these regulations -
"gross tonnage" means the measure of the overall size of a ship determined in accordance with the provisions
of the present Convention;
"net tonnage" means the measure of the useful capacity of a ship determined in accordance with the provisions 
of the present Convention; 
"organization" means the International Maritime Organization. 
EOG 01-0250
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.